28 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Effective management of risk is essential to achieving EVRAZs objective of delivering long-term value to shareholders and to the protection of its assets, people and reputation.
Identifying, evaluating and managing business risks are integral to the way EVRAZ runs its business.
Strategic Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation Impact of Global EVRAZs sales, profits, balance sheet and potentially the EVRAZs operations are diversified across a number of Macroeconomics and economic viability of projects and investments could be geographic markets thereby providing some protection Industry Cyclicality adversely impacted by macroeconomic factors such as: from adverse economic conditions.
Production is focused primarily on the infrastructure segment of the r The cyclical nature of the steel, mining and vanadium steel markets where the Company commands leading industries with prices strongly influenced by economic market shares and benefits from high barriers to entry.
conditions: EVRAZs vertically integrated business model serves r Potential disparities between global steel and raw to protect the Company from higher raw material input material production capacity which could influence prices and various pricing formulas are utilised in pricing: and respect of contracts.
In addition, products are sold r Adverse fluctuations in RUB USD exchange rates and under a range of contracts, some of which are linked other foreign currencies.
A proportion of products are supplied on long-term contracts.
EVRAZs operations are generally low cost in comparison with much of the Companys peer group, a factor which provides some mitigation against economic fluctuations.
EVRAZs main foreign exchange risk is the potential impact on the asset value of the Groups Russian operations: this risk is mitigated in that all products are priced in US dollars or on a USD related price.
Safety Safety risks are inherent to the Companys principal EVRAZ has instigated a programme to improve the business activities of steelmaking and mining.
management of safety risks across all business units and embed a new culture at all levels within EVRAZ employees face a range of risks including the the Company, supported by operational manuals and potential dangers of fire, explosions and electrocution.
This system is subject to oversight Additional risks, specific to individual mines, include at Group and site level in order to ensure all HSE methane levels, rock falls caused by geological systems are aligned and that response to safety risks is conditions, and accidents involving equipment and or co-ordinated, consistent and complete.
EVRAZ faces risks including regulatory fines, penalties and adverse impacts on reputation and, in the EVRAZ has reviewed the Groups training activities in extreme, the withdrawal of mining or plant environmental order to ensure that all employees can provide strong licences thereby curtailing operations for an indefinite and professional leadership with regard to safety issues.
EVRAZ reviews the performance of all contractors against Group policies and contractual safety requirements.
In the event of non-compliance by contractors the Group takes appropriate action, including contract termination.
An operational safety assessment represents a primary aspect of all new projects, particularly new mines where measures to contain methane levels are a priority.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements e t i e d t t u i m A m l EVRAZ plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZ Risk management framework Board Executive Regional Floor Strategic Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation Capital Projects The advancement of EVRAZs strategic objectives EVRAZ reviews all proposed capital projects on a risk and Expenditures is, in large part, dependent upon the completion of a return basis.
The Group sets expected internal rates of number of important projects designed to enhance return IRR for each project as thresholds for approving the Companys key product delivery, reduce production the allocation of capital based on the net present value costs and increase the vertical production of our raw NPV of expected cash flows from invested capital.
IRR and NPV are also reviewed based on sensitised cash flows using variables for commodity prices, inputs The economic viability of capital projects could be and sales, and volumes mines.
impacted by increases in capital costs due to delays and other factors, unforeseen changes to future metal and Before undertaking the development of a mine, EVRAZ metallic coal prices and the acquisition and retention of takes into account a range of considerations and relevant operating licences.
In addition, the profitability utilises independent experts to review various factors of new projects could be impacted by higher than such as: resource estimates: studies of ore quality in expected operating and Life of Mine LOM costs due to relation to market demand and value: mine development variables such as lower than expected coal and iron ore costs: mining techniques open pit or underground quality, coal seam economics and technical processing and associated investments: logistic options, including and engineering factors.
transport and power: environmental impacts: and labour availability.
Cash costs and full sustainable cash costs In addition, the cost to EVRAZ of maintaining current over LOM are also reviewed compared to local and open mines is subject to various factors which are outside the market metrics.
Companys control, including the price of consumables.
Each project is presented for approval against the Groups risk matrix to assess the downside in respect of each project and any potential mitigating actions.
Project delivery is closely monitored against project plans to ensure that investments are on time and on budget and to assess any changes in project and capital expenditure against the approved NPV.
Environmental Mining and steel production carry an inherent risk EVRAZ has put strong environmental systems, Incidents of environmental impacts and incidents, relating to procedures and controls into place.
Environmental risks issues as diverse as water usage and quality of water are the responsibility of the regional business units with discharged, air emissions, metallurgical waste recycling, oversight from the Groups HSE team, HSE Committee tailings management and community discontent.
Consequentially, EVRAZ faces risks including regulatory The majority of EVRAZs operations are certified under fines, penalties and adverse impacts on reputation ISO 14001 and the Company continues to work towards and, in the extreme, the withdrawal of mining or plant bringing the remaining plants to certification.
EVRAZ is environmental licences thereby curtailing operations for currently compliant with REACH requirements.
a o n C r t e i d t u n A I 30 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Continued Strategic Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation Human Resources EVRAZs employees represent a key resource and are EVRAZ continually assesses its human resources critical to the delivery of the Companys objectives.
requirements and seeks to meet its leadership and skills needs through the retention of employees and Principal risks involve the selection, recruitment, training internal promotion.
EVRAZ maintains structured and retention of employees, together with securing and professional internal mentoring and external appropriately qualified executives with regard to current development programmes including EVRAZs New and new operations.
Succession planning in respect of Leaders programme, focused on high potential EVRAZs senior management is under constant review employees, and Talent management supervision although this does not preclude issues in relation to key conducted by the Companys Talent Committee.
The Company has instigated clearly assigned Whereas the aforementioned issues are applicable responsibilities and programmes designed to maintain throughout the Groups global operations, the ongoing close relationships with employee unions throughout its expansion of mining operations in Russia has led to a operations.
EVRAZ seeks to be proactive and timely in particular shortage of experienced and skilled mining response to the needs and concerns of trade unions.
This risk is exacerbated by the climatic conditions and or remote locations pertaining to certain of the Companys current and potential mines.
Certain regulatory and cultural factors can also prove disincentives in terms of recruitment from outside Russia.
There is a risk of employee union action, as witnessed at the Groups South African operations during 2012, although such action is not indicative of the overall state of labour relations at EVRAZ which are largely favourable.
However, this cannot preclude the risk of future industrial disputes.
Business Interruption Steel making and mining operations are subject to a EVRAZ has established protocols and procedures number of operational risks which have the potential to across all of its activities to mitigate the effects of cause prolonged production delays or shut-downs.
The Company has initiated planned maintenance programmes at the majority of its These include equipment failure, regulatory plants and records of minor interruptions are reviewed requirements in respect of safety concerns, geological for the purpose of identifying prospective problems and technical challenges, climatic conditions, of greater magnitude.
KPIs are utilised at each of the interruptions to power supplies and disruptions to Groups plants, units and mines, encompassing all transportation services.
Additionally, long-term business interruption may result All of the Companys operations possess disaster in loss of customers and damage to the Companys recovery plans which are reviewed regularly by Internal reputation.
The Group also carries business interruption insurance, excluding mining operations.
Potential Actions by EVRAZ operates in a number of countries and there is EVRAZ and its executive teams are members of various Governments a risk that governments or government agencies could national industry bodies and, as a result, contribute adopt new laws, regulations or other requirements which to the thinking of such bodies and, when appropriate, could have an adverse impact on the Groups operations participate in relevant discussions with political and and business.
Such developments could also have the regulatory authorities.
effect of limiting the Groups ability to obtain financing in EVRAZ also has programmes in place across the international markets.
Groups operations to support the Companys good corporate citizen credentials.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Risks Risk Type Risk Mitigation Treasury Risk As with many other large multinational companies, EVRAZ manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate EVRAZ faces various treasury risks including liquidity, cash and borrowing facilities, as well as through cash credit, and interest rate risks.
management procedures that continually monitor forecast and actual cash flows and by matching Adverse events in global financial markets could affect funding with the Groups cash needs and re-financing the Groups ability to raise new debt, refinance existing obligations.
debt and or lead to higher debt service costs.
Covenant compliance is managed by close monitoring The Groups current debt facilities include certain of the overall Groups business performance and, again, covenants in relation to equity, net debt and interest with the continual review of forecast and actual cash expense.
A breach of these covenants could result in flow.
Free cash flow, net of capital expenditure, total certain of the Groups borrowing facilities becoming funding, maturity profile and covenants are considered repayable immediately.
at each EVRAZ Board meeting.
EVRAZ is subject to significant counter-party risk via With regard to risk management of funding cost, the receivables from commercial and financial institutions.
majority of the Companys funding has been secured on a fixed interest basis.
The Group manages counter-party risk with commercial customers through a combination of letters of credit and, where creditworthiness is uncertain, by prepayments.
In the event that credit terms are longer than the Groups standard payment terms, collateral is sought.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk within EVRAZs customer base.
The credit worthiness of all financial institutions with which EVRAZ has cash balances or places deposits is kept under regular review.
The majority of the Groups funding is denominated in US dollars.
Major funding in other currencies, primarily the Russian rouble, is substantially dollar hedged with financial institutions.
Cost Competiveness Most product groups in the steel industry are highly The majority of the Groups recent investments have cost competitive and this is particularly relevant to the been designed to significantly reduce costs, as Groups key markets in Russia and North America.
illustrated by the Companys utilisation of PCI technology Although EVRAZ is active in the manufacture and sale within its steelmaking operations in order to reduce of niche products, the Group is able to focus on specific energy costs and enable the use of cheaper, lower geographic regions and enjoys certain cost advantages quality carbon coal coke inputs: the focus on the linked to customer proximity, volume and quality, the development of the Groups key cost competitive rail and majority of the Groups steel production remains cost beam production for both domestic and export markets: and price sensitive.
investment in the production of high quality slab which can be further processed by the Groups international Steel making is a high capital cost industry and the plants, particularly for the North American market: and impact of lower plant utilisation increases the underlying the expansion and control of the Companys Russian cost per tonne of crude and rolled steel, reducing any domestic steel distribution network.
The Group continues to develop a number of new At the Groups Russian plants, employees tend to greenfield and brownfield mining operations which will represent the majority of the local communitys active produce higher quality coal and iron ore at a lower cash workforce.
Changing production requirements can, cost, thereby benefiting the Companys overall steel therefore, lead to local political and social challenges.
32 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 33 33 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t and Accounts 2012 Operating Review
