g n i r o t i n o M 24 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Risks and uncertainties Experian has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks in relation to our strategy and business objectives including our strategic focus on data and analytics, driving profitable growth and optimising capital efficiency.
Risk management operates at all levels The framework enables our risks to be Risk management framework throughout our organisation, across identified, analysed, evaluated, controlled, Effective management of risk and geographies, business lines, and operational monitored and reported.
In doing so the main opportunity is essential to the delivery of support functions.
The Board is ultimately functions of the Board are supported by: our objectives, achievement of sustainable responsible for risk management, which identifying and managing risk in alignment shareholder value and protection of our includes our risk governance structure and with our strategic objectives, risk appetite, reputation.
Experian has an established maintaining an appropriate internal control corporate responsibility strategy and the global risk management process which has framework.
Managements responsibility long-term value drivers in the business: and operated throughout the year ended is to manage risk on behalf of the Board.
31 March 2012. enabling management to demonstrate By reporting regularly to the Board and to a responsible and proactive, embedded the Audit Committee, our internal audit and approach to risk management.
global risk management functions provide support to the Board in maintaining effective risk management across the Group.
The corporate governance statement in this report provides further detail on this process.
Reporting Identify Analyse Evaluate Respond Identify Analyse Evaluate Respond Full risk review undertaken Controls analysed Risk exposure reviewed Action owners identified Full risk review undertaken at Controls analysed for Risk exposure reviewed Risk owners identified at least bi-annually by each for adequacy and against established limits least bi-annually by each adequacy and effectiveness and risks prioritised Action plans implemented Action plans implemented business and function effectiveness business and function Risk prioritised to manage or respond Risk analysed for impact, Risk evaluation documented to manage or respond to risk Both financial and nonRisk analysed for impact, to risk subject to regular Both financial and nonprobability and the speed in controlled risk register subject to regular review Risk evaluation financial financial r risks ri e sks cor r fide ed c o rded with w prob hicabi h a r lii ts y k and imp t ah cte s th sp e e ed review documented in controlled in controlled risk registers organisation known as in controlled risk registers with which a risk impacts risk register velocity to determine net Risk owners allocated to the organisation known Risk owners allocated to exposure assess and manage risk as velocity to determine assess and manage risk net exposure Reporting Key aspects of the Experian risk management framework Defined and communicated business Control reviews and follow-ups Executive risk management principles and strategies performed by management, internal committee with global oversight of risk audit and third parties management processes Clear Group objectives, supported by financial and non-financial key Budgetary controls and monthly Regular reporting on risk to the Audit performance indicators KPIs performance reviews, including Committee by senior management achievement of objectives and KPIs Standardised process to identify, Regular risk updates to the Board evaluate and manage significant risks Regional risk management committees on an ongoing basis with local oversight of risk management processes g n i r o t i n o M Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 25 be considered to be a complete set of all year and synthesised in the years report.
Risk factors potential risks and uncertainties.
Exposure to consolidation among clients The following information sets out the and markets has been removed as a risk Our approach to identifying, assessing, risk factors which we believe could cause due to a stabilisation of the financial services managing and reporting risks is formalised our future results to differ materially from industry and Experians reduced exposure in the risk management framework expected results.
However, other factors to financial services as a percentage of described in this section.
Risks that we face could also adversely affect our results and so global revenue.
are critically evaluated throughout the the risks discussed below should not Principal risks Increasing risk No change Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From 2011 Loss or inappropriate usage of data Our business requires the appropriate and We have established rigorous information security We maintain an awareness of security breaches secure utilisation of consumer and other sensitive policies, standards, procedures, and recruitment throughout our industry and enhance our risk information by its business units or its third party and training schemes, which are embedded strategies accordingly.
The evolving risk landscape partners.
Internet-based electronic commerce throughout our business operations.
We also requires continual improvement and refinement of requires the secure transmission of confidential screen new third party partners carefully and our information security operations to help ensure information over public networks, and several of conduct targeted audits on their operations.
the safety and protection of our environment.
our products are accessed through the internet.
Continued investments are made in IT security Related global strategy: Security breaches in connection with maintaining infrastructure, including the significant use of data Focus on data and analytics data and the delivery of our products and services and communications encryption technology.
could harm our reputation, business and operating Further information: results.
Corporate responsibility section Use and protect data properly Dependence upon third parties to provide data and certain operational services Our business model is dependent upon third Our legal, regulatory and government affairs Related global strategy: parties to provide data and certain operational functions work closely with senior management Focus on data and analytics services, the loss of which could significantly to adopt strategies to help secure and maintain Optimise capital efficiency impact the quality of and demand for our access to public and private information.
Similarly, if one or more of our outsource strategic sourcing function works closely with senior providers, including third parties with whom we management to select and negotiate agreements have strategic relationships, were to experience with strategic suppliers based on criteria such as financial or operational difficulties, their services delivery assurance and reliability.
A diverse network to us would suffer or they may no longer be able to of strategic suppliers and vendors is maintained in provide services to us at all, significantly impacting order to minimise potential disruptions.
delivery of our products or services.
Exposure to legislation or regulatory reforms Legislative, regulatory and judicial systems in the Our legal, regulatory and government affairs functions We continue to monitor and engage key countries in which we operate are responding to work closely with senior management to adopt stakeholders on several topics including: changing societal attitudes about how commercial strategies and educate lawmakers, regulators, understanding the priorities of the newly established entities collect, use and maintain consumer data.
consumer and privacy advocates, industry trade US Consumer Financial Protection Agency, the In particular, the growing ubiquity of the internet groups and other stakeholders in the public policy proposed US data security standards, the proposed drives public concerns about how consumer debate.
This includes advocating for robust, EU Data Protection Directive, and the potential information is collected and used for marketing, responsible sharing of commercial consumer data.
adoption of positive credit data repositories in risk management and fraud detection purposes.
It also includes negotiating with lawmakers and various European and Asian countries.
These concerns may result in new laws, regulations policymakers, directly and through trade groups Related global strategy: and enforcement practices, or pressure upon and external consultants, to ensure proposed Focus on data and analytics industries to adopt new self-regulation.
Some legal requirements reflect standards that are both proposed changes may adversely affect our ability workable for us and responsive to consumers.
Further information: to undertake these activities in a cost-effective Finally, it includes advocating and promoting new Financial statement note 15 for a discussion of manner.
Separately, we are subject to changes in industry self-regulatory standards, when appropriate, tax charges and rates specific countries tax laws.
Our future effective to address consumer concerns about privacy and tax rates may be adversely affected by changes in information sharing.
We also retain internal and tax laws.
external tax professionals that monitor the likelihood of future tax changes.
These risks are generally outside our control.
Regulatory compliance Our businesses must comply with federal, To the best of Experians knowledge, we are in Regulatory compliance risk continues to increase regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional compliance with data protection requirements in as a result of heightened oversight and enforcement regulations and best practice.
These include each jurisdiction in which we operate.
Our regulatory of existing financial laws and new regulations, rules that authorise and prescribe credit reporting compliance departments work closely with the such as the Wall Street Reform and Consumer protocols, as well as general information businesses to identify and adopt strategies to help Protection Act of 2010 and the UK Bribery Act 2010. privacy, anti-corruption and information ensure compliance with jurisdictional regulations The regulatory compliance function has actively security requirements.
Non-compliance could and identified business ethics which include active participated in the evaluation and integration of lead to fines penalties, increased prudential monitoring of our collection and use of personal data.
acquired businesses within our emerging Latin requirements, enforced suspension of operations Adequate procedures have been implemented to America and Asia Pacific markets to deploy the or, in extreme cases, withdrawal of authorisations address requirements under the UK Bribery Act 2010. fundamentals of our compliance programme.
Related global strategy: Focus on data and analytics Further information: Corporate responsibility section Use and protect data properly 26 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From 2011 Product service or technology obsolescence Without the timely introduction of new or enhanced Product innovation is a key driver of growth for Related global strategy: products and services our offerings will become Experian in all our markets and we have continued Optimise capital efficiency technologically or commercially obsolete over to invest strongly in new data sources and new Drive profitable growth time.
In addition, without continued investment in analytical products, together with the platforms our technology infrastructure, we may not be able that support their worldwide delivery.
Over 10% Further information: to support changes in the way our businesses and of our revenues come from products developed Business overview section examples of how customers use and purchase information.
In either during just the past five years.
In addition, 20% of businesses are delivering innovative solutions case, there can be no assurance that there would not our global costs are in information technology and Group strategy and objectives examples of be a material adverse effect on our business, results of data.
Detailed competitive and market analysis product innovation operations and or financial condition.
are performed which provide the foundation Business overview section discussion of how of a rigorous product and services investment we extend our global lead through product identification and selection process.
innovation Interruptions in business processes or systems Our ability to provide reliable services largely depends We have strict standards, procedures and training Continuity of services is a core focus and built into on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our schemes for physical security.
Comprehensive the development of new and existing products.
computer network systems, data and call centres, business continuity plans and incident While we experienced limited disruptions during the as well as maintaining sufficient staffing levels.
management programmes are maintained to fiscal year, events such as the Japan earthquake System or network interruptions, or the significant minimise business and operational disruptions tsunami provided real time validation of established reduction in key staff or management resulting from including pandemic incidents.
We maintain plans and processes.
We continue to execute a pandemic outbreak, could delay and disrupt our full duplication of all information contained in periodic exercises to ensure that documented ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and databases and run back-up data centres.
Support procedures are accurate and suitable for each services, causing harm to our business and reputation arrangements, strict standards, procedures and specific environment.
and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
training schemes for business continuity have Related global strategy: been established with third party vendors.
We also Optimise capital efficiency monitor potential pandemic threats and adjust Drive profitable growth action plans.
Dependence on recruitment and retention of highly skilled personnel Our ability to meet the demands of the market and Effective recruitment programmes are ongoing 88% of our employees participated in the 2011 global compete effectively with other IT suppliers is, to a across all business areas, as well as personal people survey which is considered to be a high large extent, dependent on the skills, experience and career development initiatives.
The results of the survey and performance of our personnel.
Demand is high identification and development programmes have show consistent overall improvement in the degree for individuals with appropriate knowledge and been implemented and are reviewed annually.
of employee engagement, as well as to assess experience in the IT and business services market.
Compensation and benefits programmes are general levels of satisfaction and involvement at The inability to attract, motivate or retain key talent competitive and also regularly reviewed.
Separately, approximately 60% of our senior could have a serious consequence on our ability to leadership roles have successors ready to cover service client commitments and grow our business.
these roles in the short, medium and long-term.
Related global strategy: Focus on data and analytics Optimise capital efficiency Further information: Our people, our strength section Key performance indicators Corporate responsibility section Be a good employer to all Other risks Increasing risk No change Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From 2011 Exposure to material adverse litigation We are regularly involved in a number of pending and We vigorously defend all pending and threatened The exposure to material adverse litigation in the US threatened litigation claims in the United States and litigation claims.
We employ internal counsel remains generally consistent with prior years.
Latin America, including a number of class actions in and engage external counsel to assist in the Related global strategy: the United States.
As is inherent in all legal proceedings, effective management and disposal of litigation Focus on data and analytics litigation outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty proceedings.
Insurance coverage is maintained and there is a risk of outcomes unfavourable to us.
against litigation risks where such coverage is Drive profitable growth feasible and appropriate.
Further information: Corporate governance section associated with the identification and monitoring of litigation.
Financial statement note 45 describing contingencies for pending and threatened litigation claims Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 27 Risk and impact Mitigation Change Commentary From 2011 Exposure to country and regional risk political, financial, economic, social particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom Our global footprint subjects our businesses to Our portfolio is diversified by geography, by The outlook for the worlds major western economies economic, political and other risks associated with product, by sector and by client in order to protect continues to be weak.
Social unrest could drive international sales and operations.
A variety of factors, itself against many of these fluctuations, especially political agendas around the use of credit data.
including changes in a specific countrys or regions those that are restricted to individual territories and Related global strategy: political, economic, or regulatory requirements, as market sectors.
We have offices in 44 countries Drive profitable growth well as the potential for geopolitical turmoil, including and derive 35% of revenue from outside the United terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, States and the United Kingdom.
Only 5% of global Further information: prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels revenue is derived from the euro zone.
Corporate responsibility section Playing or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally an active part in communities outside our control.
Exposure to legislation or regulatory reforms risks and uncertainties Strategic investments including acquisitions and other organic initiatives may not meet expectations We continue to expand our global reach and We assess all acquisitions rigorously, using both While we made investments in 10 companies that extend our capabilities through a combination of in-house experts and professional advisers.
In continue to diversify our product offerings and acquisitions, strategic alliances joint venture and addition, we conduct extensive post-acquisition and expand our presence in existing and new markets, organic strategic investments.
The contributions organic investment reviews to ensure performance such as Colombia, our risk profile remained of these businesses and initiatives to Experian may remains consistent with the business plan.
unchanged due to the application of sound result in financial outcomes that are different than integration practices.
Related global strategy: Drive profitable growth Further information: Business review section - discussion of how we extend our global lead through geographic expansion Financial statement note 41 for a detailed description of the financial impact of these acquisitions to the Group Exposure to the unpredictability of financial markets foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks As Experian operates on an international basis, it Our financial risk management focuses on the Concerns about credit risk including that of is exposed to the risk of currency fluctuations and unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to sovereigns and the euro zone crisis have recently the unpredictability of financial markets in which it minimise potential adverse effects on Experians intensified contributing to currency volatility and operates.
We apply conservative downgrades of some financial institutions.
We currency hedging strategies to minimise the impact continue to monitor counterparty positions regularly.
The large sovereign debts and or fiscal deficits of a of currency volatility.
Treasury and insurance number of European countries and the United States Related global strategy: activities are conducted only with financial and have raised concerns regarding the financial condition Optimise capital efficiency insurance institutions with strong credit ratings, of financial institutions, insurers and other entities that within limits set for each organisation.
Refer to the Drive profitable growth are directly or indirectly exposed to these countries.
financial review section of this report for a detailed The default, or a significant decline in the credit rating, Further information: description of our mitigation strategies.
of one or more sovereigns or financial institutions could Financial review section and financial cause severe stress in the financial system generally statements note 8 and could adversely affect our counterparties, customers, suppliers, vendors, or creditors, directly or indirectly, in ways which are difficult to predict.
The impact of these conditions may be detrimental to Experian and may adversely affect its business, operations and profitability.
Exposure to increasing competition We operate in a number of geographic, product and We are committed to continued research and Related global strategy: service markets that are highly competitive.
The investment in new data sources, people, technology Drive profitable growth competitor environment continues to be dynamic and products to support our strategic plan.
Further information: with new entrants that may have scale, integration capability and partner networks.
Competitors may Business review section develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services which could result in the loss of clients or reduction in revenue.
Loss or infringement of intellectual property rights Our success depends, in part, upon proprietary Experian, where appropriate and feasible, 2011 US legislative patent reform should not have products and or services and related intellectual relies upon a combination of patent, copyright, a material impact on existing or future intellectual property rights.
The extent to which intellectual trademark and trade secret laws, as well as various property rights as our existing patent programme property rights can be protected varies in different contractual restrictions, to protect our proprietary applies a first to file strategy which is consistent with jurisdictions.
Third parties may claim that Experian products and services and continues to monitor the revised legislation.
is infringing their intellectual property rights or our this situation.
We also vigorously defend all third Related global strategy: intellectual property rights could be infringed by third party infringement claims.
Focus on data and analytics parties.
If we do not enforce our intellectual property Drive profitable growth rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
Further information: Business review section for a general description of the types of developed tools and software Financial statement note 21 for a description of other acquired intangibles including trademarks and licences, trade names and completed technology
