e t R a e g - i t e i v M a l u e a g t a e n e L c a e n M g a a n l i F H y e f i E a t n l n y v t a g i M h r u e o o t Q a Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Hierarchy Culture and policy provided that those risks are fully Fenner recognises that effective risk understood and can be managed and management is not only essential for controlled effectively by the Group.
the delivery of strategic objectives, Summary of risks and themes from the We have robust risk management but that it also improves Risk Universe and Heat Maps.
and reporting procedures which performance, decision making and Principal Reported to the Audit Committee allow Fenner to maximise Risks helps drive sustainable shareholder and the Board opportunities, whilst also restricting value.
Group-wide risks validated from inappropriate activities.
The management of risks is a the operating unit Heat Maps.
Group Our risk management process is continuous process at Fenner which Reported to the Executive Risk Universe driven from Board level, but Committee is embraced at all levels from the significant responsibility is also taken Board, Executive Committee and by operating unit managers and the Detailed risk assessment divisional management to the for each operating unit risk identification process at Group Business Heat Maps operating unit.
for management and and operating unit level is linked to and Risk Sheets control of risks Our philosophy on risk is to accept our strategic planning process.
those risks which enhance value, Risk Management: a continuous process Risk factors continuously monitored, as are their mitigation The Fenner Risk Universe explained opposite and management strategies.
analyses the risks identified into 11 categories which reflect our business and the We focus in particular on understanding the environment in which we operate.
link between cause, risk and effect so that we correctly identify the risk factor which is best Our strategy is the focal point of all our risk measured, understood and upon which control factors.
We define risk as events or situations can be best exercised.
which may be damaging to the achievement of our strategic business objectives.
Group risks Inherent and Residual are measured on a 10 point scale of impact and a five point scale of likelihood.
Our assessment of impact considers both financial and non-financial measures.
Risk impacts are Risk Universe Identification and management Risks of the Group are considered as a Groupcontrols are monitored and tested to ensure wide top down exercise which is supported and these are working as stated and are providing validated by an independent assessment at effective mitigations to the risks identified.
This produces a We measure both Inherent Risk, before consolidated Risk Universe and is our controls and mitigating actions, and the principal risk management and reporting tool.
resulting Residual Risk, which takes account of Selling Externally facilitated Risk Workshops are run our controls and management strategies.
These focus on the The operating unit Heat Maps are reviewed at Operations activities and strategies of the operating units Group level and their risks are incorporated and the possible risks that those activities, and into the Group Risk Universe.
the environment in which the businesses Technology Purchasing operate, may generate.
A schedule of Principal Risks is produced which summarises the key risks for reporting Risk Heat Maps and detailed Risk Sheets are and monitoring at Audit Committee and Board prepared for each operating unit.
quantify the risks and allocate responsibility for n their management.
Controls for each risk are identified and the mitigating effect of these controls is also assessed and recorded.
All Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 21 n & i r m t y t f o S S e i r t n a n t f e e d t I y S o c i t o e - k r e a c o M n o m i c
