Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Risks and uncertainties There are a number of key potential risks and uncertainties that, without effective management, could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance.
Our risk management approach risks relate to passenger safety Risk management structure We have a risk management and security, our main cost drivers methodology which we use andthe governmental, regulatory Board throughout the business to allow and economic environments.
usto pursue business opportunities The principal risks and and increase shareholder value whilst uncertaintiesthat may impact ensuring that we operate safely, Internal Risk External ourability to execute our strategic develop and protect our people, Audit Group Audit priorities are detailed overleaf.
They have been assessed taking Each division has a designated into account materiality, the Risk Champion who maintains a likelihood of occurrence and any divisional risk register.
These in turn Business divisions change in this during the year, support the Group Risk Register.
and the residual risk after the The Risk Champions and other implementation of controls.
members of senior management form the Risk Group, which meets The risks listed do not comprise UK Group UK Transit Greyhound Student on a quarterly basis and oversees all those associated with the Bus functions Rail the Groups risk management Group and are not set out in any activities and reviews and maintains order of priority.
Additional risks the Group Risk Register.
and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we believe to Our principal risks be less material, may also impact anduncertainties ourbusiness.
Many risks inherent in a transport company such as ours will always Further information on our risk exist.
The challenge is to manage management controls is contained them effectively.
Our principal in the corporate governance section on pages 49 and 50.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change Economy An economic downturn, whether at a global, regional or national level Reduced demand for public Many areas of the Groups business could have a negative impact on the Groups businesses and the transportation leading to reduced offer a certain degree of protection against opportunity to grow existing, or win new, contracts.
profitability and reduced funding for economic downturn in specific geographic andspending by local and national markets, and the revenue support and governments and other customers profit sharing arrangements in place in onpublic transport.
Most UK Bus operating companies are able to modify services and even greater flexibility is available to the Greyhound operations, particularly in the United States.
Pensions The Group has significant defined benefit pension obligations relating For both UK Bus and Greyhound the Through diversification of investments, toits UK Bus, Rail and Greyhound businesses.
Under its franchise volatility of the underlying investments amendment of the defined benefit arrangements the UK Rail business is not responsible for any residual and liabilities can create material promises and the introduction of defined deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short term cash flow risk changes in the accounting cost and cash contribution for new starts in UK Bus and within this business.
Group, the Group seeks to mitigate these risks, although in extreme market conditions it is not possible to completely negate them.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Impact Mitigation Change Terrorism The threat from terrorism is enduring and it continues to exist in the Reputational damage and reduced Our Group Head of Security leads and countries in which we operate.
Public transport has previously been demand for our services.
coordinates the work needed to respond subject to attack and it remains important that we take all reasonable to this threat.
This includes developing and steps to help guard against such activity on any of the services applying good practice and training our weoperate.
employees so that they can respond effectively to any perceived threat orincident.
During 2012, the Olympic Games will be held in the United Kingdom and we recognise this event may bring an increased risk of terrorism.
We are working with others, including the Department for Transport and the Police, to help ensure our security procedures are appropriate forany increased threat.
Taking these steps helps protect our customers and staff, provides reassurance and supports our commitment to safety and security.
Competitive pressures All of the Groups businesses compete in the areas of pricing and service Reduced passenger numbers To continue to help mitigate the risks and face competition from a number of sources.
posed by these pressures, the Group continues to focus on service quality and In the UK, the main competitor remains the car and to a lesser extent performance as priorities in making our long distance coach.
The UK Bus market is deregulated with low public services attractive to passengers and other subsidy and is very competitive with over 1,200 operators running local customers.
In its contracted operations, bus services in the UK.
contract compliance and a competitive bidding strategy and strong bidding team As noted below, the Group is also facing competition from other bidders are key.
In addition, wherever possible, in the four rail franchises for which it is currently shortlisted.
theGroup works with local and national In North America, the Groups businesses cover a wide geographic area bodies to promote measures aimed at competing with several large companies as well as a substantial number increasing demand for public transport of smaller, locally owned operators.
Our competitors in the yellow school and the other services that we offer.
bus business also include school districts which themselves operate approximately two thirds of yellow school buses in North America.
Similarly, there are a significant number of transit and service businesses operated by private entities, including several large companies and public authorities.
Our Greyhound coach operations face competition from a number of other coach operators in North America as well as from budget airlines.
Rail re-franchising Between 2012 and 2016, the Department for Transport will undertake Lower UK Rail division contribution The Group has an experienced and the largest programme of re-franchising since privatisation.
dedicated rail bid team, which is franchises will be re-let.
This includes three of our existing franchises, competing for franchises as they are re-let.
First Great Western, First TransPennine Express and First Capital Connect.
In addition, Transport Scotland will re-let First ScotRails services.
The competition for new rail franchises is intense.
We bid against operators of current UK rail franchises and rail operators from other countries, principally from within the European Union.
Legislation and regulation Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations covering The costs associated with complying The Group has embedded operating awide range of matters including safety, equipment, employment, with the adoption of new legislation, policies and procedures in all our environmental, insurance coverage and other operating issues and regulation or other laws and reduced businesses to ensure compliance with considerations.
These laws and regulations are constantly subject funding available for public transport existing legislation and regulation.
could adversely impact the results of We have dedicated legal teams in the UK ouroperations.
and North America who oversee the Groups compliance, training programmes, and advise on emerging issues.
The Group closely monitors the impact ofchanges in the regulatory and legal environment and actively engages with Government and transport bodies to help ensure that we are properly positioned to respond to any proposed changes.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Risk Impact Mitigation Change Customer service and associated contract retention The Groups revenues are at risk if it does not continue to provide the Revenue levels reduced and a negative To mitigate this risk, relevant staff level of service expected by customers.
This could result in contracts impact on brand image.
undertake intensive training programmes not being renewed in the case of our North American business and to ensure they are aware of and abide by passengers no longer using our services in the UK and North America.
the levels of service that are required by our customers in each business.
The Board also monitors, in detail, a series of customer service KPIs to ensure strict targets are being met.
Rail franchise agreements The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its Penalties including the potential Compliance with franchise conditions is UK Rail franchise agreements.
termination of one or more of the rail closely managed and monitored on a franchise agreements.
This would result monthly basis by Senior Management and in the Group losing the right to continue procedures are in place to minimise the operating the affected operations and, risk of non-compliance.
consequently, the related revenues or cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of the amounts set aside as security for performance bonds and season ticket bonds.
Treasury risks and insurance costs Treasury risks include liquidity risks and risks arising from changes to Funding not achieved and or increased The Treasury Policy and delegated foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
This is set out in insurance costs causing an adverse authorities are reviewed periodically to more detail in note 25 to the financial statements.
ensure compliance with best practice andto control and monitor these The Group has three main insurable risks: third party claims arising from riskseffectively.
vehicle and general operations, employee injuries and property damage.
The size of the Groups operations is such that there is a high frequency of low value claims which the Group self-insures up to certain limits.
It purchases insurance above these limits from reputable global insurance firms.
Although the Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance costs through its focus on safety, there can be no assurance that future self-insurance and external insurance costs may not adversely impact the Groups business and results of operations.
Labour cost and employee relations Labour costs represent the largest component of the Groups operating Higher than expected increase in the The Group seeks to mitigate these risks costs.
Future labour shortages or decreasing unemployment rates could cost of recruitment, training and other through its recruitment and retention hinder the Groups ability to recruit and retain qualified employees.
Operational disruption and policies, training schemes and working addition, it is important for a labour intensive Group that good employee reputational damage.
practices including building communication relations are maintained.
and engagement with trade unions and the wider workforce.
Fuel costs Fuel prices and supply levels can be influenced significantly by Fuel availability and higher prices could To mitigate the risk of volatile fuel costs international, political and economic circumstances.
adversely impact the Groups operations the Group regularly enters into forward and profitability.
In addition, the Group may limit the impact of unexpected fuel price rises through efficiency and pricing measures.
Retention of key management Attracting and keeping key members of Senior Management is vital in Inability to execute Group strategy The Group has a robust succession ensuring that the Group continues to have the necessary expertise and resulting in reduced profitability.
planning process designed to identify continuity to execute its strategy.
In order that management have diverse talented individuals, set development and challenging careers they are given autonomy, within parameters set goals for progression to other roles and by the Board, to run their businesses.
to assess the depth of talent and any gaps throughout the leadership of the Group.
The Group also offers market based compensation packages comprising an appropriate mix of long and short termincentives.
Environmental We store and manage large quantities of fuel at our maintenance sites, Financial loss and increased To mitigate these risks our storage facilities which presents a potential regulatory and financial risk in the event of regulatorycosts.
are subject to regular inspection and we significant loss or spillage.
We are subject to ongoing changes in have detailed fuel handling procedures environmental regulations the most significant of which is the Carbon which are regularly audited.
Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, which came into We continue to reduce our own emissions force in April 2010. through programmes to improve fuel Along with all businesses we face the challenge of addressing climate efficiency and promote passenger growth change, both managing its impact and reducing emissions.
to ensure we capitalise on the opportunities.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41
