com Our Approach to Risk Management As described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 55, there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the business.
Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing the business and reports to the Audit Committee on the process of how those risks are being managed.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and also reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing risks across the Group.
The Board receives regular reports on any major issues that arise and makes an assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
RISKS AND THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP MITIGATION The financial performance and financial position of the Group The Board will regularly review Group strategy, which will may be adversely affected by a significant weakening in demand determine the markets in which the Group operates.
The in its core end-markets and general macro-economic conditions.
current spread of the Groups business, both geographically and by end-market served, provides some protection to the The global macro-economic environment is uncertain.
While Group should conditions in particular markets deteriorate.
demand in Alents key electronics end-markets has been reasonably stable overall during 2012 with weaker demand In late 2008 and the first half of 2009, the Group experienced in Europe offset by continued growth in the Americas and a significant downturn in its key end-markets of electronics Asia-Pacic, there has been general weakening in the global and automotive.
However, the downturn in electronics economy and slowing global industrial production, most notably end-markets was relatively short lived and the recovery has in Europe.
In addition to clear evidence of slowing worldwide been strong.
Demand in automotive markets has remained economic growth, concerns about the stability of the Eurozone more difficult.
The Group responded with a number of and the European financial banking system remain.
It is, as cost-reduction initiatives and the cost base remains tightly yet, unclear to what extent the seeming insolvency of Greece controlled.
and the scal weakness of other countries such as Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain will impact the euro currency and the Following the tight control of the cost base in recent years banking system.
There is therefore considerable uncertainty as and the level and tenor of the Groups debt facilities, the to how the Eurozone crisis, the global financial crisis and the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned nancially wider economic situation will develop over time.
to sustain a further downturn in end-market activity should this occur.
Alent supplies predominantly consumable products, on short lead times, mainly to the electronics, automotive and industrial end-markets.
As such, the Groups expectations of future trading are based upon the Directors assessment of end-market conditions, which are subject to some uncertainty.
In the event that end-market conditions suffer significant deterioration, the Group may experience reductions in trading activity, a lower share price, financial failure of one or more of its key customers and suppliers, asset impairments, lower profitability and or a material adverse impact on its financial position.
The loss of key personnel or the failure to attract, develop Alent believes in the importance of investing in and or retain skilled or qualied employees could negatively developing its most important asset, its people.
believes its people are its competitive advantage and it has created comprehensive development opportunities to Alent depends on the capabilities and performance of its introduce, reinforce and further strengthen their talents.
Loss of key personnel or The Group utilises a variety of programmes tailored to help failure to attract or retain qualied employees could impact its employees enhance their performance, set and achieve Alents business and have a material adverse effect on its objectives, develop their leadership skills and recognise and financial condition and operating results.
The Group has implemented a long-standing and rigorous succession planning programme with an identied succession plan in place for all senior members of staff.
26 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 Throughout its global operations, the Group faces various risks, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group manages the risks inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, where cost-effective.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group will face.
Some risks are not yet known and some that are not currently deemed material could later become material.
All of these risks could materially affect the Group, its businesses, and results of future operations or financial condition.
For further information please visit www.
com RISKS AND THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP MITIGATION The Groups financial position and trading results may The Group attempts to manage transactional and balance be adversely affected by uctuations in exchange rates, sheet translation risks associated with currency exchange rate interest rates or the rate of ination.
uctuations through its hedging and funding policies and it is Group policy that foreign currency transaction exposures that Alent has no control over changes in foreign currency exchange are material at an individual operating unit level are hedged rates, or ination and interest rates.
In the normal course of using appropriate instruments such as forward foreign business, many transactions are carried out by the Groups exchange contracts.
For its key operating currencies, it is businesses in currencies other than their reporting currency, the Group policy to broadly match the currency prole of its leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, although this is borrowings with the currencies of its asset base, but it does not material for the Group overall.
The Group is exposed to the not hedge translational impact on the income statements effect of translating the results and net assets of its overseas of overseas subsidiaries.
Where appropriate, the Group subsidiaries into sterling.
significant uctuations in the value manages its interest rate exposures using interest rate swaps of currencies in which it operates, in interest rates or in rates of or other instruments.
ination may adversely impact the Groups financial position and results of operations.
The Group may lose customers to competitors with new or Alent has invested signicantly in research and development alternative technologies if its businesses do not adequately facilities and will continue to do so to ensure that the Group adapt to market developments.
remains able to front-run emerging trends, and maintain its leadership position in terms of innovation and product development in its market niches.
Indeed, research and The markets in which many of Alents businesses operate development is critical to the continued success of the Group can experience rapid changes due to the introduction of and significant managerial and financial resource is dedicated new technologies.
The Groups continued success depends to this area.
In 2012, total research and development spend upon its ability to continue to develop and produce new and was 16.5m, equivalent to 4% of NSV.
The drive for smaller, enhanced products and services on a cost-effective and timely smarter and faster electronics and the rapid pace of change, basis in accordance with customer demands.
In addition, the means that only those businesses with the required scale and markets for the Groups products are competitive in terms of technical expertise are able to successfully take advantage pricing, product and service quality, product development and of these market opportunities.
The Group has historically introduction time, customer service, nancing terms and other been at the forefront of market developments and remains similar factors.
If the Group fails to adequately adapt to market confident that it will continue to be successful in leading the developments related to new products and technology, it world in key new developments.
could lose customers to suppliers with better or less costly products.
Alternatively or additionally, the Group could fail to achieve its anticipated returns on the amounts it has invested in research and development.
These outcomes could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future prospects, financial position and results of operations.
STOCK CODE: ALNT STOCK CODE: ALNT 27 27 OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PERFORMANCE www.
com Our Approach to Risk Management continued RISKS AND THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP MITIGATION If the Group fails or is unable to protect, maintain and The Group applies for patents over its major products, enforce its intellectual property, it may lose its exclusive technologies and processes in a number of jurisdictions, right to use its technologies and processes.
including in Europe and the USA.
New product and service offerings by competitors are regularly monitored and any Throughout its operations, Alent relies on a combination perceived breach of a Group patent is vigorously challenged.
of trade marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets and To the extent possible, the Group avoids holding key condentiality procedures and agreements to protect intellectual property in countries which do not afford an its proprietary rights.
If the Group fails to, is unable to acceptable degree of legal protection to the Group.
protect, maintain and enforce, or is the subject of theft or infringement of, its existing intellectual property, this may result in the loss of the Groups exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are included or used in its businesses.
There can be no guarantee that the Groups procedures and contractual provisions will be adequate to prevent the misappropriation, infringement or other unauthorised use of the Groups intellectual property by third parties.
In addition, the protection provided by these intellectual property rights varies between the countries in which the Group operates and the laws of certain countries in which the Group operates may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as those of, for example, the United Kingdom or the United States of America.
The Groups worldwide operations and businesses may be As part of its planning process before entering a new market adversely affected by various political, legal, regulatory and or territory, or expanding in an existing market or territory, other developments in countries in which it operates.
the Group undertakes a rigorous assessment of the risks involved.
In addition, the spread of the Groups major Alent is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, businesses, both geographically and by end-market served, including those covering taxation and environmental matters, provides some protection to the Group should any of its and political risks, including the imposition of trade barriers, businesses be adversely impacted by legal, regulatory or changes of regulatory requirements, lack of protection other changes in an individual market or territory.
for intellectual property rights and the volatility of input costs, selling prices, taxes and currencies.
In particular, The Group has in place an insurance programme covering operating within the rapidly evolving developing nations all of its businesses which provides an acceptable level of can expose the Groups businesses to significant local risks coverage for the operational risks which they face.
Future global political, legal or regulatory developments concerning the Groups businesses may affect their ability to operate and to operate profitably in the affected jurisdictions.
Should the Groups businesses fail to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, this may result in a financial loss or restriction on their ability to operate.
Alents businesses are subject to a variety of operational risks, including natural catastrophe, terrorist action, theft, fraud and, particularly in developing nations, insufficient supply of high quality local management and technical personnel.
If any of the operational risks materialise to a significant extent, this could result in a substantial interruption to a facility, loss of future insurance cover, potential loss of customers and revenue and financial loss.
28 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 RISKS AND THEIR IMPACT ON THE GROUP MITIGATION Alents future prospects, financial position and results of The Group has rigorous processes in place to ensure that any operations could be adversely affected if it is unable to increases or decreases in the cost of commodity metal prices pass on to its customers uctuations in the prices of the raw are passed on to its customers.
Group systems are automatically materials which it purchases.
uploaded with LME London Metal Exchange prices or equivalent on a daily basis.
These prices are then agreed and Tin, silver, gold, isopropyl alcohol, nickel sulphate and passed on to the customer at the time of placing an order.
chromic acid are among the principal raw materials that Alent purchases.
Alents business may be affected by uctuations in the price and supply of such raw materials.
Alents ability to pass on increases or decreases in the cost of raw materials to its customers is, to a large extent, dependent upon market conditions, established market practice and terms of trade.
If Alents ability to pass on increases in the cost of raw materials is limited, this could have a material adverse effect on Alents future prospects, financial position and results of operations.
Future expenditure on compliance with environmental The Board has overall responsibility for Alents Health, and health and safety laws and regulations may materially Safety and Environment HS&E policy and for monitoring its adversely affect Alents future prospects, financial position implementation.
Executives and line managers at all levels are and results of operations.
directly responsible through the normal management structure for HS&E matters in the operations under their control.
Alent is subject to applicable laws and regulations in all of the jurisdictions in which it operates and in which it has Alents facilities are ISO Compliant to Quality, Environmental property assets undergoing remediation activity, including and Health and Safety Standards by a third party registrar.
The those relating to pollution, the protection of the environment, systems require auditing to the established standards in the human health and safety, the disposal of hazardous system and include continuous improvement as part of its core.
substances and waste materials and remediation of any System reviews are summarised with well supported corrective land or water contaminated by such substances.
Violations action methodologies where recommendations are warranted.
of legal or other regulatory requirements could result in restrictions on operations, the imposition of more stringent The Group has in place an insurance programme covering permitting conditions, damages, fines or other sanctions, all all of its businesses which provides an acceptable level of of which may have a material adverse effect on Alents future coverage for the operational risks which they face.
prospects, financial position and results of operations.
Alent delivers its products on a just in time basis from a The loss of key manufacturing assets as a result of a major manufacturing base of 23 facilities located around the world.
catastrophe could cause significant disruption and lead to Its copy exact manufacturing structure allows the Group temporary plant closures or a suspension of operations and to produce products to the same specication across all production which could negatively impact Alents business of its global manufacturing sites.
Alent can therefore ex and financial position.
production between sites with minimum disruption to its customers.
Failure to manufacture products within customers specified schedules and timeframes could prevent Alent from fully Alents procurement strategy ensures that it has agreements performing its contractual obligations, which could severely in place with regional suppliers across the globe and impact sales and earnings and cause detrimental reputational can increase its supply of raw materials in each region as damage to Alent.
This could result in a loss of market share, necessary.
weakened customer relationships and threaten Alents position as global supplier of choice.
The Group has in place an insurance programme covering all of its businesses which provides an acceptable level of coverage for the operational risks which they face.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 29 OUR PERFORMANCE
