46 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Our Risk Management Framework O Our aiiim iiis t to d d deep pllly y emb b bed d d a riiisk k k manag gement t culllt ture t t t to o o o s s s su u u up p p p pp p p p po o o or r r rt t t t e e e ef f f f ff f f f fe e e ec c c ct t t tiiiiiv v v five e e e s s s st t t tr r r ra a a at t t te e e eg g g g gy y y y y e e e ex x x xe e e ec c c cu u u ut t t tiiiiio o o on n n n a a a an n n nd d d d d lllllo o o on n n ng g g g g-t t t te e e er r r rm m m m v v va a allllu u ue e e c c cr r re e ea a at t t tiiiio o on n n. The Audit Committee supports the Board of Directors in monitoring The Board of Directors is responsible our risk exposures and is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness formaintaining the Companys risk of our risk management and internal control systems.
Internal Audit supports the Audit Committee in evaluating the design management and internal control and operating effectiveness of our risk mitigation strategies and the systems.
The Boards mandate includes internal controls implemented by management.
dening risk appetite and monitoring Risk management and internal control procedures are largely embedded within our business practices across functional areas riskexposures to ensure that the nature including finance, HSECR, human resources, procurement, IT, legal, security and insurance management.
Risk management processes and extent of significant risks taken and internal controls operate across our mine sites, exploration and bytheCompany are aligned with our development projects and corporate ofces.
overall goals and strategic objectives.
Risk identication, assessment and mitigation is performed at various degrees of specicity, from detailed assessment of safety risk at the operational level at each mine site, to monitoring of project delivery risks for each major capital projects, to the assessment and mitigation of strategic and financial risks at the Executive Management and Board levels.
Risk management framework diagram from 2011 The annual risk identication and assessment process is integrated with the strategic planning process.
Executive Management assesses the level of risk inherent to achieving the Companys strategies, and incorporates controls into the strategic plan to mitigate this.
Identifying and assessing risks during the strategic planning process is the first step in the top-down risk identication and assessment process, and helps to ensure that the bottom-up risk identication process is aligned with and focused on the current strategy and execution.
The Board T op-down Oversight, H as overall responsibility S ets strategic objectives M onitors the nature and P rovides direction on for the Groups risk and defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure the importance of risk identication, management and internal against risk appetite for our management and risk assessment and controls system principal risks management culture mitigation of risk at corporate level Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses and mitigates our risks Supports the Board in monitoring Supports the Audit Committee Company-wide riskexposure against risk appetite in reviewing the effectiveness of our risk management and internal M onitors our risk management process Reviews the effectiveness of our risk controls systems and internal controls management and internal controls systems Operational level B ottom-up R isk identication, assessment and Risk awareness and safety culture Identication, Risk management process and internal controls embedded across functional mitigation performed across the embedded across the business assessment and areas, mining operations, projects and business mitigation of risk exploration sites atbusiness unit level and across functional areas Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 47 What we said we would do in 2012 What we did in 2012 Continue to embed risk management processes within We integrated risk analysis processes at the strategic thebusiness.
Formalise our practices for dening, planning level and initiated quarterly reporting on the implementing and monitoring risk management action enterprise risk management programme to the Audit plansfor the principal risk areas, particularly where Committee and Board of Directors.
We updated action plans thecurrent level of risk exceeds our risk appetite for elevated risks and rened a number of mitigation and control measures across the risk spectrum.
A new key risk Continue to rene our risk monitoring processes.
define and was identied for inclusion amongst those to be closely implement Key Risk Indicator KRI metrics in alignment with monitored by the Board.
We conducted our annual risk our Key Performance Indicators to allow management to assessment process identify changes to our risk exposures and to highlight new and emerging risks We dened the KRIs and also initiated data collection forreporting these metrics.
The KRI monitoring mechanism Managers across the business will undergo refresher will be formally launched in 2013 training so that we may continue to integrate risk management processes, giving us a consistent risk We delivered refresher training at both the business unit management approach, risk language and risk culture andcorporate levels In furtherance of our anti-bribery and corruption ABAC programme, the CEO, Compliance officer, Compliance Manager & Risk Manager have initiated regular and  within the organisation, sharingoutcomes from the whistle-blowing line and reinforcing key ABAC policies within the organisation.
Allnew contracts with third parties, and those subject torenewal, require acknowledgment and acceptance oftheCompanys anti-bribery and corruption clause What we plan to do in 20132018 The annual and ongoing elements of the enterprise risk management programme have been formalised, including the denition of risk appetite and risk identication and assessment processes.
We will continue to evolve and build on our existing risk management framework, enhancing risk governance and management across the business in line with best practices.
Our next set of priorities includes: Developing a formalised and documented methodology to evaluate and follow up project risks Periodically reporting KRI metrics and status of action plans for each principal risk Incorporating appraisal of risk management performance in annual employee performance reviews 48 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Our Risk Management Framework continued Risk assessment Risk heat map The annual risk assessment exercise across all our operations, advanced projects, exploration ofces, support and corporate areas The following risk heat map illustrates the relative identied and evaluated over 100 risks.
This universe was narrowed positioning of our principal risks in terms down into major risks monitored by Executive Management and the ofimpact and likelihood: Audit Committee, and then further consolidated into the principal risks monitored by Executive Management and the Board of Directors.
All nine principal risks from 2011 persisted in 2012, and one new risk arose for consideration by the Board of Directors: the public perception against mining, reecting an increase in opinion that mining activity isnot commensurate with the sustainability of local communities D C B B D orthe environment.
To a certain extent this inaccurate perception H C A A stems from the industrys insufficient engagement efforts with localcommunities and ineffective communications regarding F thewidespread benets of mining.
Whilst there has been no direct H impact on Fresnillo plc to date, public opinion in recent years has I J E putincreased pressure on regulators regarding the ability of mining J E companies to operate.
Such pressure has impacted the industry inanumber of ways, from delays in obtaining permits and licences, tocommunity protests, negative media coverage, and blockades of projects and mines, resulting in the derailment or shutdown of select mining operations temporary and permanent around the world.
Dueto this increased pressure, the Executive Committee proposed tothe Board the inclusion of this new risk within the principal risks to be closely monitored.
The Board approved the proposal and included this risk in its risk appetite and mitigation discussions during the year.
Unlikely Almost certain Likelihood Risk A.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments C. Projects D. Access to land E. Potential actions by the government F. Public perception against mining G. Safety H. Environmental incidents I.
Human resources New risk considered in 2012 Key milestones Major targets 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Evolve our risk analysis Adopt the new Guidance on Internal methodology for projects.
Control to be issued by the Financial Senior management Risk assessment Formalise our Integration of risk Reporting Council expected by 2014. identify the exercise with the denition of risk analysis at the Quarterly reporting KRI metrics emergence of new participation of the appetite for our strategic planning and status of action plans for Assessment of the effectiveness risks since the IPO.
compliance with theUK Corporate Governance Code.
20132014 2016 Incorporate the risk element in the Assessment of the effectiveness annual 2013 appraisal process.
2018: Vision Being a best in class Risk Management function.
Very low Severe Impact Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 49 Our approach for managing risk is underpinned by our understanding of our current risk exposures, risk appetite and how our risks are changing over time.
Risk rating Risk Risk appetite 2011 2012 Change Description of risk change Low High Very high The state of insecurity in regions of Mexico where we operate has A.
Security continued to increase, with a number of incidents in areas closer toour operations and exploration projects.
High High High Among industry and financial analysts who follow metals prices, B.
Impact of global some see cyclicality in the industry and predict a downward trend macroeconomic forlong-term average silver prices.
developments Medium High High The change in risk reects two factors: higher exposure due to the C. Projects level of committed risk capital for the San Julin project that was approved in 2012: and, helping offset that factor, greater certainty about the mineral resources at our advanced exploration projects, which increased over the past year, as well as enhancements in our investment governance process and system of capital project controls that improve our ability to deliver growth through development projects in time and on budget.
Medium High High Negotiations for land in Mexico, combined with an increase in land D. Access to land requirements, remain a challenge.
Foreign mining companies in general and Canadian ones in particular have set certain precedents for future negotiations in their agreements with indigenous community ejido leaders.
Low Medium High In December 2012 the Mexican Government enacted an amendment E. Potential actions to the Labour Law: we have retained advisors to help ascertain and by the government analyse any possible impact.
Pressure for a mining tax royalty in Mexico continues to increase.
Mexican legislators have taken steps to move in this direction.
The Company, through the Mining Chamber and directly through our high ranking executives and Chairman, willcontinue to lobby against any mining royalty and to ensure thatscal regulations do not curtail growth or investment.
Low N A High The potential for social activism is a growing global phenomenon F. Public perception within the mining sector with the potential to impact all strategic against mining areas: there have been recent examples impacting other mining companies in Mexico.
Low High High Accident rates have declined due to our strict application of G. Safety procedures and greater supervision of safety for personnel andcontractors, however the risk remains high and we have stillnotmet our safety goals.
Low Low Low Our mature environmental management programme continues H. En vironmental toreduce the likelihood of a significant environmental incident.
incidents Medium Medium Medium Continued investment in the exploration programme has I. Ex ploration stabilisedthis risk and we foresee no change in risk status basedon available information.
Medium Medium Medium Competition for skilled personnel remains a challenge, J.
Human resources howeverwe have begun to see results from our recruitment andretention strategies.
For those risks with a risk rating that is above our risk appetite, management takes action to reduce the level of risk.
See Risk Response Mitigation in the following table.
50 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Our Risk Management Framework continued Our principal risks Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation A.
Security Our people face the risk of kidnapping, extortion or harm We closely monitor the security situation, maintain clear duetosecurity conditions in the regions where we operate.
 and coordinate work in areas of Weface the risk of restricted access to operations projects higherinsecurity, along with the following practices to manage andtheft of assets.
our security risks and prevent possible incidents: The growing inuence of drug cartels, other criminal elements Travel management e. g. travel in convoy, use aircraft versus and general lawlessness in the regions where we operate, land travel and avoid known insecure areas: in 2012 we used combined with our aggressive exploration and project activity remote conferencing technology when possible to minimise inareas of transfer or cultivation of drugs, makes working travel while facilitating management oversight of remote inthese areas of particular risk for us.
E nhanced on-site security measures cameras, barriers, delayed access : we installed US$2.97 million of new equipment in 2012 in our operating units and exploration ofces.
Theft prevention: We optimised logistics in 2012 to further reduce the probability of theft, including changes to schedules for daylight travel and the use of real-time tracking technology.
W e invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements, and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts: such investments totalled US$2.48 million in2012.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments There could be an adverse impact on our sales and profit, We have full exposure to uctuations in the prices of gold and andpotentially the economic viability of projects, from silver: and currently no hedging as per our investors mandate.
macroeconomic developments such as: For new major projects, the Company may consider undertaking some degree of hedging.
The extent of risk appetite A decrease in gold and silver prices after a prolonged period in this area will continue to be evaluated frequently to ensure of increase primary driver of the risk : this was the case for ongoing alignment with shareholders expectations.
silver in 2012, with a decline of 9.8% in the annual average price over the previous year We have hedging policies in place for foreign exchange movements, including currencies impacting equipment A dverse uctuations in MXN USD exchange rates or other purchase commitments.
See note 29 in the Financial foreign currencies Statements page 186.
I nation Inationary pressures: we engage suppliers in long-term A decrease in the price of by-products zinc and lead contracts to maintain our position as a low cost producer andcontrol the impact of the rising cost of mining inputs.
1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 4 Sustainability Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 51 1 2 3 4 Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation C. Projects Pursuing advanced exploration and development opportunities, Our investment evaluation process determines how to best which are core to meeting our strategic goals, carry certain direct available capital using technical, financial and other project-related risks: qualitative criteria.
Economic viability: impact of capital cost to develop and Technical: we assess the resource estimate and confirmed maintain the mine, future metals prices and operating costs resources, metallurgy of the mineral bodies, investment through the mines life cycle.
required in general infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general services, housing and infrastructure required for the mine Uncertainties associated with developing and operating andplant.
new mines: uctuations in ore grade and recovery, unforeseen complexities in the mining process, poor rock Financial: we look at risk relative to return for proposed quality, unexpected presence of water, lack of community investments of capital.
We set expected internal rates of return support, and inability to obtain and maintain required IRR per project as thresholds for approving the allocation of operating permits.
capital based on the present value of expected cash ows from the invested capital.
Delivery risk: projects may go over budget in terms of cost and time, or may not be constructed in accordance with Other qualitative factors: e. g. alignment of the investment therequired specications, or major mining equipment withour strategic plan and business model: synergies with maynot be delivered in time.
other investments and operating assets: implications for safety, Our other principal risk areas have an impact too, such as security, people, resourcing and community relations.
lackofreliable contractors, failure or delays in gaining access We closely monitor our project controls to ensure we deliver toland, inability to replace mined reserves, and uncertainty approved projects on time, on budget and as per dened relating to global economic condition.
The Executive Management Team and Board ofDirectors are regularly updated on progress.
Each advanced exploration project and major capital development project has a risk register containing the identied and assessed risks specic to the project.
In 2012, the Board approved the San Julin project with an investment of US$500 million: at the time of this report, the engineering and construction group is updating the plan which will be used to monitor progress versus budget.
Included in the plan will be project specications such as y in y out schedules, geo-hydrological and geo-physical studies for water supply, power supply negotiations, land acquisition, mining models, contractor selection and human resources availability.
At the Centauro Deep project we must identify an adequate and profitable mining system, thus we plan to continue exploration to confirm the nature of the mineral and mechanical and hydrological characteristics.
The major risk driver at the Orisyvo project is metallurgical recovery.
We continue investigating and performing tests onmineral processing options.
2 Develop 52 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Our Risk Management Framework continued Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation D. Access to land Given our growth strategy and aggressive exploration plan, Fresnillo plc acquired 34,468 hectares of surface land in 2012. failure or significant delays in accessing the surface over Tomaximise our opportunities for successful land access we: ourmineral concessions and other land of interest is a I nvest in hiring and training negotiators and provide persistent risk with a potentially high impact on our objectives.
Executive Management support for our negotiation teams: Potential barriers to land access include: in2012 we contracted five negotiators in the exploration R ising expectations of land owners group for land acquisitions in Peru and Mexico.
I nuence of multiple interest groups in land negotiations I n addition, we have negotiators dedicated to acquiring land required for infrastructure for advanced projects.
C onicts in land boundaries with an often arduous resolutionprocess Plan well in advance for land requirements and acquisitions e. g. anticipating potential land purchase before intensive S uccession issues among land owners resulting in a lack of exploration.
clarity about the legal entitlement to possess and sell land F oster strong community relations through investment in I nsecurity and conicts in our exploration operation areas community programmes and infrastructure.
increases land access complexity A lways seek tri-party cooperation between the government, community and ourselves in securing access to land.
E. Potential action by the Government We face the risk of potential implementation of new We participate in industry and government meetings and events governmental requirements that would have an adverse impact to continuously monitor the political and regulatory environment, on us, such as a tax royalty on mining companies in Mexico, including tax and labour reforms.
ornew or more stringent ecological or explosives regulations We collaborate with other members of the mining community via e. g. banning open pit mining, the use of cyanide, etc.. the Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against new detrimental The current risk level is very difficult to measure as there is taxes royalties or regulations.
At the same time we strive for lackof certainty on the likelihood, structure and magnitude maximum resilience by maintaining low cost of production ofany potential mining tax royalty.
The potential likelihood andastrong capital position.
ofnew ecological regulation is currently highly uncertain.
We maintain strict control in receiving, handling, storing and However, stricter regulation on explosives is likely due to their dispatching explosives in each of our operations and projects.
We are currently analysing what, if any, potential impact we may face with the amendment to the Mexico Labour Law that was enacted in December 2012.
1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 4 Sustainability 1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 4 Sustainability Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 53 1 2 3 4 Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation F. Public perception against mining Public opinion globally is increasingly concerned with the The Company collaborates with peers in the international and potential adverse social and environmental consequences Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response ofopening and developing mining operations.
sentiment manifests itself through increased regulatory Our formal programme for community engagement includes: obligations for mining companies and increased social activism C onducting community perception surveys and monitoring by communities and other grass roots organisations.
public opinion within the local media newspapers, radio stations, local channels.
T racking and following up on concerns reported by thecommunity, maintaining open and transparent communications, and clarifying any miscommunications thatcould be used to target the Companys reputation.
W orking with communities, ejido representatives and land owners at an early exploration stage to understand their needsand communicate the benets of developing and operating a mine in terms of social welfare and quality of life.
G. Safety Inherent to our industry is the risk of incidents due to unsafe We have zero tolerance for safety incidents at every level of the acts or conditions causing injuries or fatalities to our people.
operation, with rules incorporated into operational procedures, safety manuals and all aspects of communication on safety.
In4Q Our people face risks of re, explosion, electrocution and 2012 we launched a No more accidents process led by all senior carbon monoxide poisoning, as well as risks specic to each management and the Executive Committee.
The programme mine site and development project, for example rock falls includes mandatory participation in monthly safety meetings caused by geological conditions, collisions of equipment byall personnel including contractors at the business units.
inlargeoperations, cyanide contamination, collisions betweenequipment and people and smaller vehicles.
In 2012 the Executive Committee approved a US$5.3 million project to minimise operational safety risks, which includes location-based sensors for people and equipment, an anticollision system and real-time communication inside the mine.
Other mitigating activities include: Ownership of safety risk by management of business units mines, projects and exploration, with oversight from our comprehensive HSECR system and people who coordinate consistent and complete responses to safety risks, supplemented by safety guides, operational manuals and detailed procedures: in 2012 we increased the number of onsite safety supervisors by an average of 50%.
Training, including reinforcing employee and contractor instruction and emphasis on Leadership in Safety.
In 2012 allsupervisors participated in a two-week training on the importance of observing safety guidelines: we conducted 252,000 hours of safety training in 2012, a 32% increase over2011.
4 Sustainability 1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 4 Sustainability 54 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Our Risk Management Framework continued Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation H. Environmental incidents Inherent to our industry is the risk of environmental incidents We have strong environmental systems, procedures and such as overow collapse of tailings dams, cyanide spills and controls in place and, as with Safety risks, Environmental risks dust emissions, among others, any of which could have a high are owned by the Business Units with oversight provided by the potential impact on our people, communities and business.
Our environmental management system supports compliance with all required regulations.
Read more: Our sustainable strategy p42-43 Our operations are certied under ISO 14001 and the Clean Industry programme and we rigorously adhere to the requirements established by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Manifest.
We also support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems.
In 2012 we conducted an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions as part of GHG Mexico.
See pages 88-90 for more on our sustainable developmentstrategy.
Exploration We are highly dependent on the success of the exploration We invest heavily in our exploration programme, aiming to programme to meet our targets, and maintain our strategic maintain a consistent exploration budget across metals cycles.
value-creation, production and reserves goals.
The budgeted risk capital invested in exploration for 2013 is US$279.6 million, with 41% of the budget allocated to exploration Risks that may impact prospecting and converting inferred around major projects and the remainder to a combination of resources include: the growing level of insecurity, lack of mine site exploration, prospects and regional prospecting.
qualied personnel, available land and sufficient concession Wealso ensure we have: andsurface right coverage in target areas.
A focus on increasing the regional exploration programme As our production escalates and more mines approach tolocate new districts with high potential.
theendof their lives, it becomes increasingly challenging A team of highly trained and motivated geologists, both toreplenish their reserves.
employees and long-term contractors: we expanded this segment of the workforce by 20% in 2012.
Read more: Our exploration programme A broad and robust portfolio of prospects and projects with andinvestment p73-77 sufficient potential in terms of indicated and inferred resources: we added an additional 219,757 hectares of mining concessions to our portfolio in 2012.
A dvisory technical reviews by international third party experts up-to-date and integrated GIS databases and software for identifying favourable metallurgical belts and districts.
Drill-ready projects Identied opportunities and openness to partnerships, mergersand early stage projects acquisitions, such as the Orexagreement signed in 2012.
Acquisitions increased ourconcession area by 42,292 hectares in 2012.
See pages 73-77 for more on our exploration programmes andinvestment.
1 Operate 3 Explore 4 Sustainability Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 55 1 2 3 4 Strategic objective Risk description and context Risk response mitigation J.
Human resources Our people are critical to delivering our objectives.
We face Recruitment: We assessed our hiring requirements for risksin selecting, recruiting, training and retaining the people keypositions in the 20122018 period, and aim to meet weneed, particularly as the current mining boom has created openingsthrough internal training and promotion, and by aglobal shortage of skilled and experienced earth sciences recruitment through: professionals.
O ur close relationships with universities offering earth sciencesprogrammes we have dedicated programmes Although we have a risk of union action or degradation of toidentify potential candidates based on performance unionrelations at some sites, our overall relationship continues whomay be hired as interns and or residents on graduation.
to strengthen and this risk has decreased.
C ETEF Centre for Technical Studies Fresnillo which teaches There is a lack of reliable contractors with adequate specic mining operational skills: 20 of the 2012 graduates infrastructure, machinery, performance and skilled people, joined the Company as full-time employees.
We welcomed asdemand in the industry has limited the availability of thesecond cohort of mining technicians with 20 new students competent contractors available for the development who will graduate in 2014. andconstruction of mining works.
Our growth plans make C ETLAR the Peoles Centre for Technical Studies which thisasignicant risk for us.
trainsmechanics and electrical technicians: eight of the 2012graduates joined the Company as full-time employees.
Retention: We provide a stable labour environment, strong corporate culture committed to our people, good working conditions, competitive benets and career development opportunities.
Two of our business units were recognised withGreat Place to Work certication in 2012.
Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts and provide financial resources to contractors for purchasing supplies and equipment.
We invest signicantly in training contractors, particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
We support 12 of our major contractor companies in their integration into the Self-Management Programme on Safety and Health at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS.
Unions: We have clearly assigned responsibilities and programmes for maintaining close relationships with unions atmine site and at the national level.
We engage experienced legal counsel, both internal and external, to support us.
We are proactive and timely in our responses to the needs of the union, and experienced no labour-related work stoppages in 2012.
1 Operate 2 Develop 3 Explore 4 Sustainability 56 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Performance We advanced our strategy in precious metals, delivering record gold production and stable silver volumes in 2012.
Cash generated by our mines has signicantly enabled funding for exploration, capex anddividends.
Cinega: Ore throughput exceeded designed capacityin 2012, supported by maintenance improvements, continuous development and accesstodeeper ore reserves.
Review of operations 57 Our Mines in Operation 60 Our Projects in Development 72 Our Exploration Programme 73 Sustainable Development Report 78 Financial Review 96
