Performance Our risk assessment and managementprocess The group operates around 160 businesses spread over Risk committees more than 125 countries and across a range of product areas.
Most of the risks identied below are market Group specic and so the diversity of the groups operations Management means any particular issue should have a limited impact.
Risks identied meetings Regions and escalated based on and clusters materiality Company and business functions Risk reporting system Price competition Poor operational service delivery and crisis management Risk and potential impact to KPI The security industry comprises a number of very Risk and potential impact to KPI competitive markets.
In particular, manned security markets Failure to meet the operational requirements of its can be fragmented with relatively low economic barriers customers and or failure to respond to a crisis could to entry and the group competes with a wide variety of signicantly impact the groups reputation, contract operators of varying sizes.
Actions taken by the groups retention and growth.
competitors may place pressure upon its pricing, margins and profitability.
Mitigation Group-wide operational procedures and standards for Mitigation crisis management and communication are in place and Group management continually monitors competitor adherence to them is tested in all business units.
There activity to ensure that the group can react quickly to is also a robust supervision structure which allows any competitor actions which would directly affect the management to monitor the progress and delivery groupsresults.
ofthegroups contracts and customer relationships.
All business plans and strategic planning includes competitor The group crisis communications process is and SWOT analysis and the pricing strategy for contracts is reviewedregularly.
managed through business unit and regional price approval levels.
significant price reductions require group capex Inappropriate sourcing of staff committee approval.
Risk and potential impact to KPI Poor selection processes when recruiting staff could have material implications given the critical nature of the services undertaken by the group.
There could also be risks associated with any failure to carry out periodic re-screening of existingemployees.
Mitigation Minimum group staff vetting standards maintained and regularly reviewed and updated.
46 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Major changes in market dynamics Financing Risk and potential impact to KPI Risk and potential impact to KPI Such changes in dynamics could include new technologies, If, due to adverse financial market conditions, insufficient or government legislation, political or economic volatility or only very costly financial funding were available, the group customer consolidation and could, particularly if rapid or might not be in a position to implement its strategy or unpredictable, impact the groups revenues and profitability.
invest in acquisitions or capital expenditure.
This includes Security can be a high prole industry.
There is a wide possible bank insolvency loss of headroom particularly from and ever-changing variety of regulations applicable to movement of exchange rates, unavailability of bank, bond the groups businesses across the world, with a recent or other sources of nancing and downgrading of the G4S development being an increase of restriction of foreign credit rating.
These could adversely impact G4S revenue ownership in some countries.
Failure, or an inability, to growth and profitability.
comply with such regulations may adversely affect the groups revenues andprotability.
Mitigation The group treasury department monitors and follows Mitigation policies to mitigate against liquidity, renancing and The group performs strategic and business planning currency exchange rate risks.
Refer to note 33 to the group at group, region and business unit level to ensure that accounts for more details.
specic local regulation requirements are met.
Monthly business unit trading reviews ensure that market changes The groups historical main source of funding has been are identied quickly and actions taken to maintain a revolving bank facility of 1.1bn which was renewed in performance and ensure that business objectives continue March 2011 until 2016.
The group has sought to diversify its to be achieved.
sources of finance by issuing a number of private placement bonds in the US and public bonds in the UK and Europe.
The group also monitors local markets and engages with governments around the world to ensure adherence to These have spread out the renancing requirements regulatory requirements, to identify any restrictions that over the next ten years to ensure the group has access to could adversely impact the groups activities and take sufficient funds to meet its business and strategic plans.
IT Cash losses Risk and potential impact to KPI Risk and potential impact to KPI Cyber attacks and incidents on G4S and client systems and The group is responsible for the cash held on behalf of services, especially around critical national infrastructure its customers.
Increases in the value of cash lost through could result in financial loss, breach of contract, legal action criminal attack may increase the costs of the groups and reputational damage.
Were there to be failures in the control and reconciliation processes surrounding customer cash, these Mitigation could also adversely affect the groups profitability.
The group employs IT specialists at all levels and has in place mandatory minimum security controls relating to Mitigation 35 specic controls.
In addition penetration testing of The group has formal systems and policies in place networks and systems is performed regularly to ensure that documenting physical security procedures and directives key systems are robust.
and adheres to a security framework to help reduce the riskof cash losses.
Onerous contractual obligations The group also operates a captive insurance business unit to Risk and potential impact to KPI mitigate against the financial risk of losses and attacks.
The group could commit to sales contracts specifying disadvantageous pricing mechanisms, unachievable service All transactions are subject to strict authorisation limits and levels, unacceptable operational feasibility or delivery regular reconciliations of cash balances are performed for risk or excessive liability.
This could impact its margins both cash in ATMs and cash held on customers behalf.
addition there is regular reporting of any cash losses attacks and audits of security are performed in branches.
Mitigation The group has in place regional cash reconciliation managers Any new contracts entered into are subject to a dened to increase the focus on cash reconciliations globally.
Standard contracts are used where practicable.
Non-standard contracts which expose the group to material risk are subject to risk assessment and depending on the level of risk exposure are referred for regional or group legal department review.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
