3O Principal risks and uncertainties GKN has an extensive risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences of risk and to manage the actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
A detailed description of this framework is given on page 52.
Set out below are the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Group and the corresponding mitigating actions that are in place.
Additional risks not currently known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could also adversely affect future performance.
Market risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Operating in GKN operates globally and as such our results could be n Diverse business portfolio serving different markets, with global markets impacted by global and regional changes in macroeconomic lead indicators in those markets kept under continuous and political conditions, consumer demand and preferences.
review An adverse impact could result from the European debt crisis, n Flexible systems, including treasury management and cash changing consumer confidence and associated volatility in forecasting automotive demand: rescheduling or cancellation of orders for n Effective management of variable and fixed cost base, civil aircraft and changes in amount or timing of US government investment spending and working capital public spending: and volatility in agricultural, construction, mining and industrial markets.
Customer Significant customer concentration exists in the automotive and n GKN is not dependent on contractual or other arrangements concentration aerospace industries.
The insolvency of, damage to relations, with any individual customer.
No customer represented or significant worsening of commercial terms with a major more than 10% of Group sales in the year ended customer could result in the loss of future business 31 December 2012 opportunities, asset write-offs and restructuring actions.
n Active management of customer relations and credit exposure n Strong commercial and engineering focus at customer level together with effective programme management Highly competitive GKN operates in highly competitive markets with customer n Continual review of competition and market trends markets decisions based typically on price, quality, technology and n Maintaining GKNs competitive position through new service.
Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking product technology production in-house, the entry of new competitors or n Targeting investment in engineering and lean manufacturing consolidation of existing competitors could restrict our ability resources, whilst also maintaining strong customer to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
Inability to develop relationships or maintain sufficient or appropriate engineering and manufacturing capabilities which could impact the Groups ability to maintain a competitive advantage.
Technology GKN may lose customers to competitors offering new n Regular assessment of market and technology trends and advancements technologies if we are unable to adapt to or take advantage of drivers market developments such as changes in legislative, regulatory n Divisional technology plans aligned to emerging and future or industry requirements, competitive technologies or consumer trends preferences.
This may result from failure to launch new n Focused investment in research and development products, new product applications or derivations of existing n Effective programme delivery over the long term products to meet customers requirements.
incorporating changes in technology Financial risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Pension deficit Pension deficit levels are affected by changes in asset values, n Active management of pension scheme assets and long-term volatility discount rates, inflation and mortality assumptions.
Accounting view of liability assumptions including the level of benefits valuations of pension obligations can cause volatility in n Alternative funding and risk mitigation actions are financial results.
Additional Company pension contributions implemented where appropriate may have an impact on investment in businesses.
Exchange rate Currency risks include: transactional subsidiary sales or n Natural hedging where possible, for example through local volatility purchases in currencies other than their functional currency sourcing and translational exchange rate movements in investments in n Hedging of transaction exposures through forward foreign overseas operations.
The Groups financial statements may exchange contracts fluctuate as a result of movements in exchange rates.
Complexity of Given GKNs global footprint and against a background of n On-going monitoring of tax developments in major global tax regimes complex tax laws on a global basis, it is possible that actual tax jurisdictions liabilities could differ from management judgements.
n Group-wide tax compliance programme GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
3P Operational risks Risk Nature of risk and potential impact Mitigation Supply chain Supply chain disruption caused by lack of availability of n Effective supply chain management to ensure appropriate disruption equipment, components, services and raw materials that meet inventory levels are maintained in times of production volatility specifications could impact GKNs sales to and relationships n On-going assessment of supplier technology and dependency with customers and result in additional unrecoverable costs.
n Flexible sourcing arrangements Dependence on limited supply chain arrangements could also n Monitoring financial viability of key suppliers result in additional cost and delay where replacement products are not available.
Volatile input costs Sudden increases in the cost of raw materials, labour and n Contracts that ensure the ability to pass on charges to energy could adversely affect the Groups earnings if we are customers where possible unable to pass increases on to customers.
n Securing long-term contracts with stable pricing for key inputs n Maintaining good labour relations n Forward purchasing of energy requirements where appropriate New product The introduction of new products brings risks related to lack of n Robust bid preparation and approval processes introductions market acceptance, delays in product development or launch n Rigorous programme management, including investment schedule, failure to meet customer specifications and the phasing and product testing activities inability to manufacture in time for the start of production.
n Regular review of key programmes by the Executive These events may impact customer relationships and result in Committee and Board cost overruns.
Product quality Product quality issues could lead to potential liabilities for n High levels of quality assurance are embedded in robust issues defects in products, warranty claims or product recalls and as a manufacturing systems result adversely affect GKNs financial performance and damage our reputation.
Inadequate health, Lack of robust processes and procedures governing health, n Consistent Group-wide application of health, safety and safety and safety and environmental practices could result in accidents environmental programmes environmental involving employees and others on GKN sites, regulatory n Health and safety audits to ensure adherence to Group processes violations, potential adverse financial impact and damage to policies and procedures GKNs reputation.
n A focus on process and behavioural safety through a number of Group-wide risk assessment and training programmes People A lack of relevant capability in specific geographic regions and n Competitive reward packages together with focused training capability disciplines could result in an inability to execute the strategic and development programmes plan and deliver improving financial performance.
n A culture that motivates individuals to perform to the best of their abilities Acquisitions and A lack of suitable acquisition targets aligned with the planned n Thorough reviews to ensure strategic alignment of acquisitions their integration growth strategy, a failure to integrate acquired businesses n Extensive pre-acquisition due diligence successfully, completion of an acquisition not aligned with the n Robust management of detailed integration plans strategy, or an inability to capture value from an acquisition n Post-acquisition investment reviews could impact operations and prevent successful delivery of GKNs strategic objectives.
Laws, regulations The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the n Group-wide governance policies and procedures, on-going and corporate global jurisdictions and industries in which it operates.
These compliance training and strong oversight reputation include regulations relating to export controls, intellectual n The Boards oversight of compliance also extends to property rights, competition laws and ethical business consideration of issues that could impact the corporate practices.
Non-compliance could expose the Group to cost, brand and reputation damage to reputation, suspension or debarment.
Information system The Group could be impacted negatively by information n Extensive system-based controls and live monitoring of resilience technology security threats including unauthorised access to risks and mitigating actions intellectual property or other classified information.
Interruptions n On-going development of appropriate plans in the event of to the Groups information systems could also adversely affect a breach of critical systems its day to day operations.
n Disaster recovery contingency plans and procedures The Group insures against the impact of a range of unpredictable losses associated with both our business assets and liabilities.
GKNs risk financing strategy is based on a significant level of capped self-insured retention at the Group level within GKNs own captive insurance company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd, which does not insure the risks of any other entity and a much lower retention at subsidiary level through deductibles.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the commercial market over and above these levels of retention.
Ipsleys current participation in GKNs principal insurance programme is 10 million per incident capped at 20 million in any one year.
Due to the nature of the risk, the Groups aviation products liability insurance is placed solely in the commercial market.
