78 GSK Annual Report 2012 Risk factors Principal risk factors and uncertainties There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations that may affect the Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives.
The factors below are among those that the Group believes could cause its actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
There are other risks and uncertainties that may affect the Groups performance and ability to achieve its objectives that are not currently known to the Group, or which are deemed immaterial.
The Group reviews and assesses significant risks on a regular basis and has implemented an oversight programme to help ensure that there is a system of internal controls in place.
This system includes policies and procedures, communication and training programmes, supervision and monitoring and processes for escalating issues to the appropriate level of senior management.
Such a system helps facilitate the Groups ability to respond appropriately to risks and to achieve Group objectives and helps ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and internal policies.
In addition, the Groups Audit & Assurance function is responsible for independently assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant risks and reporting outcomes to business management, the Risk Oversight & Compliance Council, and the Audit & Risk Committee as necessary.
The Groups management of risks is further discussed on pages 100 to 102 Corporate Governance.
The principal risks and uncertainties that might affect the Groups business are identied below.
United Kingdom regulations require a discussion of mitigating activities a company takes to address these risks and uncertainties.
However, it is not possible for the Group to implement controls to respond to all the risks that it may face, and complete assurance cannot be provided that the steps the Group has taken to address certain risks, including those listed below under Mitigating activities include, will manage these risks effectively or at all.
The principal risk factors and uncertainties are not listed in order of signicance.
Delivering commercially successful new products Mitigating activities include The Group has changed the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines R&D Risk description: Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially organisation in recent years in an attempt to deliver a large and successful new products diverse late-stage pipeline and a discovery organisation structure The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
In the that can sustain a ow of innovative new medicines and vaccines.
Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses, it faces competition To do this, the Group has evolved from our traditional hierarchical from proprietary products of large, international manufacturers Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines R&D business model to an R&D and from producers of generic pharmaceuticals.
The Pharmaceuticals business model based on smaller units in an attempt to encourage and Vaccines businesses also face increasing competition from greater entrepreneurialism and accountability for our scientists, manufacturers in emerging markets, with a lower cost manufacturing which the Group believes will create an environment that will be more base than that of the Group.
significant product innovations, technical conducive to the development of commercially viable new products advances or the intensication of price competition by competitors and the development of additional uses for existing products.
may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
The In addition, the Group plans to continue collaborating with partners Group cannot always predict the timing or impact of competitive in academia, biotechnology companies and other pharmaceutical products or their potential impact on sales of the Groups products.
companies, which the Group believes can both improve our ability In light of the competitive environment in which the Group operates, to develop competitive products and decrease the amount of time it continued development of commercially viable new products as well takes to do so.
The Group is also increasing consultation with patients as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical and payers to ensure the medicines it develops provide improvements to the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline that healthcare systems will value and reward.
upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
The Group reviews both product development and external Developing new pharmaceutical and vaccine products is a costly, collaborations through a series of formal governance committees.
A new product candidate can fail These committees progressively evaluate both the scientific and at any stage of the development process, and one or more late financial considerations for a product as well as the potential stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval.
benets risks associated with the continued development of the New product candidates may appear promising in development assets.
These committees include R&D executives as well as medical, but, after significant investment of Group economic and human scientific and commercial specialists for relevant therapy and resources, may fail to reach the market or may have only limited business areas.
This could be, for example, as a result of efcacy or safety concerns, an inability to obtain necessary regulatory Protecting intellectual property rights approvals, difficulty manufacturing or excessive manufacturing costs, erosion of patent coverage as a result of a lengthy development Risk description: Risks of failing to secure and protect period, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights intellectual property rights of others or an inability to differentiate the product adequately from those with which it competes.
Failure to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products.
Furthermore, health authorities have increased their focus on safety As an innovator Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare and product differentiation when assessing the benefit risk balance of company, the Group seeks to obtain appropriate intellectual property drugs, which has made it more difficult for pharmaceutical and vaccine protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce patents products to gain regulatory approval.
There is also increasing pressure and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is critical to on healthcare budgets as a result of the financial crisis, the increase in the Groups business strategy and success.
the average age of the population in developed markets, and the increase in the absolute population in developing markets.
Payers, In a number of markets in which the Group operates, the intellectual therefore, increasingly have demanded greater incremental benefit property laws and patent ofces are still developing, and some from pharmaceutical and vaccine products before agreeing to markets may be unwilling to extend intellectual property protection reimburse drug manufacturers at prices manufacturers consider to innovative products in a fashion similar to markets in more appropriate.
A failure to develop commercially successful products developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the USA or to enforce or to develop additional uses for existing products for any of previously granted intellectual property rights.
these reasons could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 79 The Groups inability to obtain and enforce effective intellectual Regulations outlining the requirements for establishing biosimilars and property protection for our products in certain markets could have interchangeable products, as well as the operation of complicated a material adverse result on the Groups financial results.
patent litigation provisions, have not yet been proposed by the FDA, although the FDA currently is implementing the biosimilar pathway In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent without such regulations, based on the statute and guidance protection and data exclusivity may be signicantly weaker than in documents.
In Europe, the European Medicines Agency EMA has the USA or the EU.
Some developing countries have reduced, or nalised guidelines for similar biological medicinal products containing threatened to reduce, effective patent protection for pharmaceutical monoclonal antibodies mAbs.
Such new regulations for establishing products generally, or in particular therapeutic areas, to facilitate biosimilars and interchangeable products could allow for earlier early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
competition for certain of the Groups products.
Any loss of patent protection, including reducing the scope of patent rights or compulsory licensing in which a government forces a The loss of patent or data exclusivity protection for some or all of the manufacturer to license its patents to a competitor, could materially Groups products could have a material adverse impact on sales of and adversely affect the Groups financial results in those markets.
Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection could limit Mitigating activities include the opportunity to rely on such markets for future sales growth for the Groups products.
The Group is supported by a global patents organisation within the legal group whose focus is to seek to ensure and protect the Expiry of intellectual property rights protection on the intellectual property rights of the Group.
Beginning in 2011 and Groups products and on competitive products: Competition continuing through 2012, the Global Patents group sought to from generic manufacturers.
implement improvements to certain time-driven processes and Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are usually only protected from controls in order to better manage its ability to obtain and maintain being copied by generic manufacturers during the period of exclusivity patent protection for the Groups key assets and to minimize risk of provided by an issued patent or related intellectual property rights invalidity or unenforceability of its patents.
These processes relate to such as Regulatory Data Protection or Orphan Drug status.
Following 1 implementing a new review process designed to help with expiry of intellectual property rights protection, a generic obtaining and maintaining appropriate patent protection for key manufacturer may produce a generic version of the product.
assets: 2 identifying opportunities for and obtaining patent term extensions: 3 ensuring timely payment of required renewal fees: The Group faces intense competition from manufacturers of generic and 4 ensuring appropriate listing of patents in the Orange Book.
pharmaceutical products in all of its major markets.
Introduction of generic products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its The enhanced processes seek to ensure that all key patent applications highest turnover and margins, typically leads to a dramatic loss of are reviewed by senior management prior to worldwide ling and sales and reduces the Groups revenues and margins for its proprietary prior to grant and that senior management approval is obtained products.
The Group had 10 pharmaceutical and vaccine products with prior to listing of patents in the Orange Book or the initiation of over 500 million in annual global sales in 2012.
For certain of these Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA litigation.
In addition, products, there is generic competition in the USA and some markets the Group has initiated a post approval patent review process to in Europe.
ensure ongoing review of the quality of patents after grant.
The timing and impact of entry in the USA and major markets in The Global Patents group maintains internal litigation processes Europe for a follow-on product to Seretide Advair that contains the designed to ensure successful enforcement and defence of patents same active ingredients is uncertain.
The US patent for compositions with the goal of maintaining exclusive rights to market major containing the combination of active substances in Seretide Advair products.
The Group has not been notied of any The Global Patents group monitors new developments in patent law acceptance by the US Food & Drug Administration FDA of an in the major markets in which the Group operates to seek to ensure application for a follow-on product that refers to Seretide Advair appropriate protection of the Groups assets.
The Group sometimes and contains the same active ingredients and is not able to predict acting through trade associations works with local governments to when this may occur or when any such follow-on product may seek to secure effective and balanced intellectual property protection enter the US market.
designed to meet the needs of patients and payers while supporting Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to market long-term investment in innovation.
generic versions of many of the Groups most important products prior to the expiration of the Groups patents.
Their efforts may Ensuring product quality involve challenges to the validity or enforceability of a Group patent or assertions that their generic product does not infringe the Groups Risk description: Risk to the patient or consumer as a result patents.
If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its of the failure by GSK, its contractors or suppliers to comply patents and maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its with good manufacturing practice regulations in commercial major products, particularly in the USA and Europe, the Groups manufacturing or through inadequate governance of quality financial results would be adversely affected.
The expiration dates for through product development patents for the Groups major products and a description of litigation Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality of settlements which may affect the dates on which generic versions of our products at the point of use.
A failure to ensure product quality the Groups products may be introduced are set out on pages 229 is an enterprise risk which is applicable across all of the Group.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are set out in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching implications in terms of the health of our patients and customers, reputation, The Group may also experience an impact on sales of one of its regulatory, legal, and financial consequences for the Group.
products due to the expiry or loss of patent protection for a product marketed by a competitor in a similar product class or for treatment of a similar disease condition.
The availability of generic products in the same or similar product class in which one of the Groups products competes could have a material adverse impact on sales of the Groups products.
80 GSK Annual Report 2012 Risk factors Product quality may be inuenced by many factors including Materials and services provided by third-party suppliers are necessary product and process understanding, consistency of manufacturing for the commercial production of our products, including specialty components, compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice chemicals, commodities and components necessary for the manufacture cGMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability and security of the supply and packaging of many of the Groups pharmaceutical, vaccine and chain, and the embodiment of an overarching quality culture.
Some of the third-party services The internal and external environment continues to evolve as new procured, for example, services provided by clinical research products, new markets and new legislation are introduced.
Particular organisations to support development of key products, are very attention is currently being focused on global supply.
In the EU, the important to the operation of the Groups businesses.
Although the new falsified Medicines Directive is focused on security of supply.
Group undertakes business continuity planning, single sourcing for In the USA, the passage of the Food Drug and Administration Safety certain components, bulk active materials, nished products, and and Innovation Act FDASIA will focus attention on reducing current services creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory levels of drug shortages in the marketplace, and new cGMP legislation non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
is being introduced in many emerging markets including China and The failure of a small number of single-source, third-party suppliers or Brazil.
On the inspection front, pharmaceutical inspectors are service providers to full their contractual obligations in a timely manner increasingly looking for global application of corrective actions or as a result of regulatory non-compliance or physical disruption at the beyond the original site of inspection.
manufacturing sites may result in delays or service interruptions, which may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
Mitigating activities include Mitigating activities include The Group has adopted a single Quality Management System QMS that defines Corporate quality standards and systems for the business Our supply chain model is designed to help ensure the supply, quality units associated with Pharmaceuticals and Consumer Healthcare and security of the Groups products globally, and the Group closely products, vaccines and R&D investigational materials.
The QMS has monitors the delivery of our products with the intent of ensuring that a broad scope, covering the end to end supply chain from starting our customers have the medicines and products they need.
materials to distributed product, and is applicable throughout the Safety stocks and backup supply arrangements for high revenue and complete life cycle of products from R&D to mature commercial critical products are in place to help mitigate this risk.
standing of manufacturing external suppliers is also routinely The QMS is periodically updated based on experience, new regulation monitored in order to identify and manage supply base risks.
and improved scientific understanding to seek to ensure operations Where practical, dependencies on single sources of critical items comply with cGMP requirements globally, and supports the delivery are removed.
of consistent and reliable products.
Securing adequate pricing and reimbursement A large network of Quality and Compliance professionals are aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist the delivery Risk description: Risk that the Group may fail to secure of quality performance and operational compliance.
Management adequate pricing reimbursement for its products or existing oversight of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of regimes of pricing laws and regulations become more Quality Council Meetings.
Staff are trained to seek to assure that standards, as well as expected behaviours based on the Groups unfavourable values, are followed.
Pharmaceutical and vaccine products are subject to price controls or The Groups Chief Product Quality officer oversees the activities of pressures and other restrictions in many markets, around the world.
the GSK Quality Council which serves as a forum to escalate emerging Some governments intervene directly in setting prices.
In addition, risks, share experiences of handling quality issues from all business in some markets, major purchasers of pharmaceutical or vaccine units and ensure that the learnings are assessed and deployed across products whether governmental agencies or private health care the Group.
providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
difficult economic The Group has implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and conditions, particularly in the major markets in Europe, could increase managing its third-party suppliers that provide materials used in the pricing pressures on the Groups pharmaceutical and vaccine nished products.
Contract manufacturers making Group products products.
The Group cannot accurately predict whether existing are audited to help assure expected standards are met.
controls, pressures or restrictions will increase or whether new controls, pressures or restrictions will be introduced.
Such measures Maintaining product supply may materially and adversely affect the Groups ability to introduce new products profitably and its financial results.
Risk description: Risk of interruption of product supply In the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and the most The manufacture of pharmaceutical and vaccine products and their sales of any country, there are no direct government price controls constituent materials requires compliance with good manufacturing over private sector purchases, but federal law requires pharmaceutical practice regulations.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to manufacturers to pay prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be review and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
eligible for reimbursement under several state and federal healthcare Compliance failure by the Groups manufacturing facilities or by programmes, primarily Medicare and Medicaid.
Pricing pressures are suppliers of key services and materials could lead to product recalls likely to increase as the US Governments share of national health and seizures, interruption of production, delays in the approval of new spending continues to increase.
products, and revoking of license to operate pending resolution of manufacturing issues.
For example, non-compliance with cGMP Additionally, due to passage of comprehensive health care reform requirements for US supply could ultimately result, in the most severe in 2010, the US Governments role in providing or subsidising health circumstances, in fines and disgorgement of profits.
Any interruption insurance is expected to signicantly expand in 2014, which indicates of supply or the incurring of fines or disgorgement impacting the growing role and leverage the government will bring to bear on significant products or markets could materially and adversely affect the Groups rebate liability with respect to US federal programs.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 81 As part of ongoing deficit reduction discussions in the USA, the Compliance with relevant laws and regulations Obama administration recently has suggested that pharmaceutical manufacturers be required to offer federally mandated rebates to the Risk description: Risks arising from non-compliance with government on drugs for people who are elderly and disabled and laws and regulations affecting the Group who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid known as dual The Group operates on a global basis and must comply with a eligibles.
These individuals currently receive drug benets through broad range of laws and regulatory controls on the development, Medicare Part D. A manufacturers Medicare Part D rebates are manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution and marketing of many negotiated with health plans and typically are lower than the federally of its pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare products that mandated Medicaid rebates.
If legislation passes requiring affect not only the cost of product development but also the time manufacturers to pay mandated Medicaid level rebates for the dual required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing eligibles, there would be a significant additional rebate liability for so.
The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory pharmaceutical companies such as the Group.
environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
In recent years, a number of states have also proposed or As those rules and regulations change or as governmental implemented various schemes to control the pharmacy budget for interpretation of those rules and regulations evolve, the potential drugs used by their low-income and senior citizens programmes, exists for conduct of the Group to be called into question.
including increasing the rebate liability of pharmaceutical companies, importation from other countries and bulk purchases of drugs.
Historically, there have been more stringent regulatory requirements in developed markets.
However, in recent years, emerging markets Given the possible expansion of Medicaid under the US health care have been increasing their regulatory expectations based on their own reform law and the economic pressures on state government national interpretations of US and EU standards.
Stricter regulatory budgets, pricing pressures on the Groups pharmaceutical and vaccine controls heighten the risk of changes in product prole or withdrawal products are likely to increase.
Any of these trends may materially by regulators on the basis of post-approval concerns over product and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
safety, which could reduce revenues and result in product recalls and product liability lawsuits.
There is also greater regulatory scrutiny, Mitigating activities include especially in the USA, on advertising and promotion and in particular The Groups effort to improve reimbursement evidence for on direct-to-consumer advertising.
development assets is designed to help defend our future innovation.
Furthermore, interaction and exchange of information between the More clearly demonstrating the value our medicines and vaccines Group and external communities in order to advance scientific and provide to patients, providers and payers using relevant comparators, medical understanding may be, or may be perceived to be, meaningful endpoints and targeted patient populations will help to promotional in intent by regulators, potentially resulting in a loss of support appropriate price levels and formulary access.
credibility with authorities, prescribers, and patients.
Such an The Group communicates with governments to reinforce their interpretation could result in a regulatory action or a government awareness of the value of medicines, and also works with national investigation which could have far-reaching effects including industry associations to reinforce these messages.
In addition, the impacting product liability actions, the regulatory pathway for assets, Group monitors the global economic environment to identify areas significant fines, exclusion from government programs, and even with potential pricing pressure.
The Group will continue to explore individual criminal liability.
different pricing models for innovative products and support more Additionally, the development of the post-approval adverse event modest pricing of older products.
This provides an opportunity for prole for a product or the product class may materially and adversely new products to be reimbursed and rewards companies that invest affect the Groups financial results.
in R&D to meet unmet patient needs.
The Group is also subject to laws of the USA, the EU and other Given the sustained shift witnessed in the European reimbursement jurisdictions regulating the export of its products to certain countries.
and pricing environment, the Group plans to initiate further For instance, Iran is subject to wide-ranging sanctions under the laws restructuring of our European Pharmaceuticals business to reduce of the USA, the EU, and other jurisdictions.
The Group has exported costs, improve efficiencies and reallocate resources to support certain pharmaceutical and vaccine products from its Pharmaceuticals identied growth opportunities in these markets.
As the Group and Vaccines businesses, and certain healthcare products including reduces its European cost base, the Group is also evaluating further over-the counter-medicines and medical devices from its Consumer strategic options to ensure the development of new capabilities and Healthcare business, to Iran via sales by non-US entities to three the ability to maximise the value of the Groups current and future privately held Iranian distributors.
US law requires specic disclosure portfolio in this region.
This initiative is expected to progress in 2013. of certain dealings with Iran, including transactions or dealings with This additional restructuring supports our strategy to change the government-owned entities and entities sanctioned for activities shape of our business and deliver sustainable long-term growth.
In related to terrorism or proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
the short term, it will also help to offset some of the pressure the We do not believe that our Iranian distributors fall within any of the Group is seeing on our margin structure resulting from changes in relevant categories.
The Group also does business, via non-US entities, our business mix.
in other jurisdictions targeted by sanctions laws, including Cuba, In selected developed markets, the Group has engaged in new Syria, and Sudan.
Failure to comply with these laws could expose the reimbursement approaches for our medicines, where the Group Group to civil and criminal penalties, including fines, prosecution, the agrees to outcomes-based risk-sharing arrangements with payers.
imposition of export or economic sanctions against the Group and reputational damage, all of which could materially and adversely From a policy and advocacy perspective, the Group works with our affect the Groups financial results.
trade associations to help support government adoption of policies that are fair, balanced, transparent, and that do not unfairly impact innovative pharmaceutical companies.
82 GSK Annual Report 2012 Risk factors Mitigating activities include Changing global political and economic conditions The Groups internal control framework is designed to help ensure Risk description: Risk of exposure to various external political we adhere to legal and regulatory requirements.
While significant and economic conditions, as well as natural disaster that work has been accomplished to strengthen the Groups compliance may impact the Groups performance and ability to achieve programme, the Group continuously evaluates and enhances it based its objectives on changes to the healthcare marketplace, changes to the Groups commercial model, guidance by governmental agencies, and Many of the worlds largest economies, including the major markets requirements set out by the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA in which the Group operates, and financial institutions have recently entered into in 2012 to which the Group is subject.
faced extreme financial difficulty, including a decline in asset prices, liquidity problems and limited availability of credit.
In addition, the The Group has implemented numerous mechanisms to support our Group operates across a wide range of markets and these markets compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
The following have the potential to encounter natural disasters that could impact represent some examples of these mechanisms.
The Groups Chief Regulatory officer oversees the activities of the The economic uncertainty of 2011 continued into 2012, particularly Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting compliance in Europe.
It is uncertain how long these effects will last, or whether with regulatory requirements and companywide standards, making economic and financial trends will worsen or improve.
The austerity regulatory services more efficient and agile, and further aligning measures in certain countries in Europe have increased pressures on regulatory capabilities with business needs at global and local levels.
the payers in those countries to force healthcare companies such as The Medical Governance Executive Committee, accountable to the the Group to decrease the price of its products.
The debt crisis has Chief Medical officer, oversees the system of principles, policies given rise to concerns that some countries may not be able to pay for and accountabilities to help ensure the Group applies the generally our products.
Current economic conditions may also adversely affect recognized principles of good medical science, integrity and ethics to the ability of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service the discovery, development and marketing of products.
This includes providers to pay for our products, or otherwise to buy necessary reinforcing the Groups commitment to respecting a clear distinction inventory or raw materials, and to perform their obligations under between scientific engagement on the one hand, and product agreements with the Group, which could disrupt our operations, promotion on the other.
and negatively impact our business and cash ow.
Some of our distributors, customers, suppliers and service providers may be The Group has implemented an above-country medical governance unable to pay their bills in a timely manner, or may even become risk management framework which covers relevant Group activities insolvent, which could also negatively impact our business and results and supports the development and implementation of appropriate of operations.
These risks may be elevated with respect to our management controls for applicable policies, with a focus on ensuring interactions with third parties with substantial operations in countries patient safety.
For additional mitigating activities related to the where current economic conditions are the most severe, particularly medical governance framework, please see the Potential Litigation where such third parties are themselves exposed to risk from business and Government Investigations risk factor.
interactions directly with scally-challenged government payers.
With regards to sales and marketing activities, the Group has dened Such continued economic weakness and uncertainty could materially and communicated its expectations for pharmaceutical marketing and and adversely affect the Groups revenues, results of operations and promotional activities in its global code of practice.
The code sets the financial condition.
The Groups businesses, including Pharmaceuticals, minimum Group standard for these activities, but requires all activities to Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, may be particularly sensitive to comply with applicable laws, regulations, and industry codes in effect.
declines in consumer or government spending.
In addition, further or In both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare business units, renewed declines in asset prices may result in a lower return on the the copy review process is used to review materials to help assure Groups financial investments and may cause the value of the Groups those materials are accurate and fairly portray our products, including investments in its pension plans to decrease, requiring the Group to ensuring that no off-label claims are made with respect to the Groups increase its funding of those pension plans.
See Note 28 to the over the counter products.
The legal group, as a member of certain financial statements, Pensions and other post-employment benets US pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare committees, advises on for a discussion of the investment strategy and general pension appropriate policies to help mitigate this risk in the USA.
the business and compliance groups, legal also undertakes a periodic The Group has no control over changes in ination and interest rates, assessment of current sales and promotional activities.
foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic With regards to the economic sanctions risk, the Group has factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest, implemented a global policy and procedure that reects the Groups legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in commitment to strict adherence to applicable sanctions and export which the Group operates.
control laws relevant to its business.
The global policy requires each business unit and global support function to perform appropriate risk Mitigating activities include assessments.
Following a review of its business with Iran, the Group The extent of the Groups portfolio and geographic footprint assist has ceased sales of products from its Consumer Healthcare business in mitigating our exposure to any specic localised risk to a certain and intends to supply only products of high medical public health degree.
External uncertainties are carefully considered when need as determined using criteria set by the World Health developing strategy and reviewing performance.
Organization from its Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines businesses.
The Group has continued the conscious commercial decision to maintain supply to countries with funding problems within agreed limits on total receivables.
The Group has designated a crossbusiness team to specically evaluate the European economic risk.
That team has developed response plans to different European economic events to attempt to ensure preparedness and with the aim of reducing the potential impact to the Group of such events.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 83 Several mitigating steps have also been taken to attempt to reduce Compliance with financial reporting and disclosure the Groups financial exposure in certain key countries including requirements exercising additional caution in counterparty exposures, taking prudent balance sheet measures in relation to high risk countries, Risk description: Risk associated with financial reporting and and proactively managing our short-term liquidity positions.
For disclosure and changes to accounting standards additional mitigating activities related to European prices pressures, New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations issued please see the Government Payers and Pricing risk factor.
from time to time by the International Accounting Standards Board The Group has a formal Crisis and Continuity Management strategy could result in changes to the recognition of income and expense and global policy and procedure that are managed centrally.
The that may materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
strategy requires documentation of crisis and continuity plans and Under International Financial Reporting Standards, changes in the periodic review of those plans.
The Crisis and Continuity Management market valuation of certain financial instruments are required to be team assists in critical crisis preparedness and response efforts globally reected in the Groups reported results before those gains or losses and incorporates lessons learned into the global strategy.
This could have a significant impact on the income statement in any given period.
Accounting for deferred Managing alliances and acquisitions taxation on inter-company inventory may give rise to volatility Risk description: Risks from alliances and acquisitions depending upon the Group entity that owns the inventory.
As part of the Groups strategy to diversify into new product areas Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed and markets, the Group has grown, and expects to continue to companies for compliance with accounting and regulatory grow, in part through acquisitions and business alliances.
The Group believes that it complies with the intense competition for alliance and acquisition candidates in the appropriate regulatory requirements concerning its financial pharmaceutical industry, and, as such, the Group may be unable to statements and disclosures.
However, other companies have make these deals on acceptable terms or at all.
In acquiring or forming experienced investigations into potential non-compliance with alliances with companies, the Group may assume significant debt, accounting and disclosure requirements that have resulted in become subject to unknown or contingent liabilities or fail to realise restatements of previously reported results and sometimes significant the benets expected from these transactions.
Any such investigation and required restatement could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
pharmaceutical or biotech companies, including those that the Group may consider acquiring, are involved in patent disputes, product Mitigating activities include liability litigation, government investigations and other legal proceedings whose outcome is subject to considerable uncertainty.
The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify material errors.
Management periodically tests the design and The assumption of debt or unknown or contingent liabilities or the operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls.
This failure to realise the expected benets may materially and adversely provides management with the assurance that controls have operated affect the Groups financial results.
effectively over key financial reporting and disclosure processes.
The process of integrating companies the Group may acquire may The Group keeps up to date with the latest developments for financial result in disruption to the ongoing business as the effort of integrating reporting requirements by working with the external auditor and organisations in different locations and with, among other things, other advisors to ensure adherence to relevant reporting differing systems and corporate cultures may divert attention and requirements.
resources, result in the loss of key employees or have other adverse consequences, any of which may materially and adversely affect the There is a shared accountability for financial results across the Group.
Financial results are reviewed and signed off by regions and then reviewed with the Corporate Controller and the Chief Financial Mitigating activities include officer CFO.
This allows both the Corporate Controller and the The Group engages in significant due diligence prior to any alliance CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and to or acquisition to assess the operational, financial and reputational evaluate performance to plan.
significant judgments are reviewed risk that may result from any alliance or acquisition.
Such diligence and confirmed by senior management.
includes documentary review and discussions with employees and Compliance with tax law and managing treasury representatives of collaborator companies.
Group employees with investments key roles in diligence are required to complete training prior to working on any transactions.
Risk description: Risk that as the Groups business models Major transactions entered into by the Group are reviewed by various and tax law and practice change over time, the Groups management boards throughout the Group including, for instance, existing tax policies and operating models are no longer the Technology Investment Board, the Product Management Board, appropriate, or that significant losses arise from treasury the Corporate Executive Team and the Board.
investments The contractual arrangements that the Group enters into include The Groups effective tax rate is driven by rates of tax in jurisdictions provisions to reduce or eliminate the Groups financial exposure that are both higher and lower than that applied in the UK.
addition, many jurisdictions such as the UK, Belgium and the USA Integration of acquired companies is managed by the Groups currently offer regimes that encourage innovation and new scientific Corporate Strategy group pursuant to specic standards, working endeavours by providing tax incentives, for example R&D tax credits, with the responsible management for each business affected by and lower tax rates on income derived from patents.
An integration team is appointed for each company acquisition to seek to ensure a smooth integration and minimise disruption to the business.
The integration team attempts to ensure that the Group attains the maximum value that may be generated from a deal, whilst ensuring that key risks are managed in a timely manner.
84 GSK Annual Report 2012 Risk factors Furthermore, given the scale and international nature of the Groups Compliance with anti-bribery and corruption business, intra-group transfer pricing is an inherent tax risk as it is legislation for other international businesses.
Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign Risk description: Risk of failing to create a corporate dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax credits, taxation of environment opposed to corruption or failing to instil intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the business practices that prevent corruption and comply interest on intra-group debt, could impact the Groups effective tax with anti-corruption legislation rate and materially and adversely affect its financial results.
The Groups extensive and increasingly international operations may The tax charge included in the financial statements is the Groups give rise to possible claims of bribery and corruption.
The Group best estimate of its tax liability, but until such time as audits by tax operates in a number of markets where the corruption risk has been authorities are concluded, there is a degree of uncertainty regarding identied as high by groups such as Transparency International.
Failure the final tax liability for the period.
The Groups policy is to submit to comply with applicable legislation such as the US Foreign Corrupt tax returns within the statutory time limits and engage with tax Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, or similar legislation in other authorities to ensure that the Groups tax affairs are as current as countries, could expose the Group and senior ofcers to civil and possible, and that any differences in the interpretation of tax criminal sanction.
legislation and regulation are resolved as quickly as possible.
In This could potentially include fines, prosecution, debarment from exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement public procurement and reputational damage, all of which could with tax authorities, the Group may have to resolve disputes through materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
formal appeals or other proceedings.
For example, in October 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada delivered its decision on an appeal in Mitigating activities include respect of the Groups transfer pricing, as discussed in Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation.
The Group, like other international The Group has implemented a global Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption businesses, is also subject to a range of other duties and taxes for ABAC programme.
The programme includes a global ABAC policy, which it incurs similar types of risk.
ongoing training, and detailed requirements in respect to third-party due diligence, contracting and oversight.
In addition, the programme The Group deals in high value transactions on a frequent basis which has strengthened controls over interactions with Government Ofcials may result in an increased risk of financial loss due to the and when entering into business development transactions.
mismanagement of cash or entering into high risk positions on hedge Operational performance is reviewed by the Groups ABAC Oversight transactions, any of which could materially and adversely affect the Committee.
A dedicated ABAC team is responsible for driving implementation of Mitigating activities include the programme and the design and execution of the ABAC audit strategy and methodology.
They are supported by an extended team The Group monitors Government debate on tax policy in its key of functional experts within the legal group, Compliance and Audit jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes & Assurance.
The ABAC team provides continued support to the in tax law.
business through ongoing training and communication of guidance.
Tax risk is managed by a set of policies and procedures to ensure A community of experts meet to provide timely guidance to the consistency and compliance with tax legislation.
The Group engages business on issues that they have escalated.
The ABAC programme advisors and legal counsel to review tax legislation and applicability continues to evolve in response to the external environment, ongoing to the Group.
The Group has attempted to mitigate the risk of more benchmarking and internal stakeholder feedback.
aggressive audits by being as up to date as possible with our tax affairs and working in real time with tax authorities where possible.
Potential litigation The Group has undertaken a number of projects to move to a more Risk description: Risk of substantial adverse outcome of centralised and simplied intellectual property ownership and trading litigation and government investigations model.
The new model centralises our pharmaceutical intellectual property into the UK, reducing the complexity of our intercompany Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, contains a arrangements and enabling us to drive more bilateral Advance discussion of material proceedings and governmental investigations Pricing Agreements APAs in the future between the UK and other currently involving the Group which, if proven, could give rise to civil jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
APAs give greater certainty and or criminal liabilities.
Unfavourable resolution of these and similar to the application of transfer pricing and our direct tax affairs and future proceedings or investigations may have a material adverse hence reduce the risks the Group faces.
effect on the Groups financial condition and results of operations.
As an example, in 2012, the Group entered into a settlement The Treasury department does not act as a profit centre for the agreement with the US federal government resulting in a payment Group, which reduces the incentive to take risks in order to increase of US$3 billion by the Group.
The Group has made provisions returns.
The department strives to minimise risk and centralise related to such legal proceedings and investigations, which have financial transactions.
Treasury risk is managed by a detailed set of Treasury policies that is In the future, the Group may also make additional significant reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Group provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations which proactively monitors Treasury activities with the intent of identifying would reduce its earnings.
In many cases, the Group believes that it exceptions to policy.
is the practice of the plaintiff bar to claim damages in amounts that bear no reasonable relationship to the underlying harm allegedly caused by the Groups products or its actions.
Accordingly, it may be potentially misleading for the Group to quantify, based on the amount of damages claimed, its potential exposure to claims, proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 85 Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product While the Group reached agreement in 2012 to resolve certain federal liability exposures, has increased the cost, and reduced the capacity, and state governmental investigations into the pricing, marketing and of insurers to provide coverage for pharmaceutical companies reimbursement of its prescription drug products, as detailed in Note generally, including the Group.
44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, additional related state investigations that have been initiated on the basis of the same Product liability litigation factual claims could result in restitution or civil litigation on behalf of Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development state governments, and could also result in related proceedings of potential pharmaceutical, vaccine and consumer healthcare initiated against the Group by or on behalf of consumers and private products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for payers.
Such proceedings may result in trebling of damages awarded use by humans following approval by regulatory authorities.
or fines in respect to each violation of law.
The conduct of the Group Notwithstanding the efforts the Group makes to determine the could result in additional investigations in the future by the US federal safety of its products through regulated clinical trials, unanticipated and state governments and similar civil litigation.
Any of these side effects may become evident only when drugs and vaccines are consequences could materially and adversely affect the Groups widely introduced into the marketplace.
In other instances, third-parties may perform analyses of published Mitigating activities include clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or meaningful, may raise questions regarding the safety of The Group attempts to mitigate the risks inherent in drug pharmaceutical, vaccine or consumer healthcare products which may development through conscientious approaches to product be publicised by the media and may result in product liability claims.
development and distribution that focus on patient safety as an The Group is currently a defendant in a substantial number of product overriding priority, and that include accurate documentation of the liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims exercise of careful medical governance.
for damages related to the Groups pharmaceutical and consumer The Group has constructed a system of medical governance to help healthcare products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently ensure the safety and efcacy of the drugs, vaccines and consumer unpredictable.
Class actions that sweep together all persons who products it produces.
The Groups Chief Medical officer CMO is were prescribed the Groups products can inate the potential liability responsible for medical governance for the Group under a global by the force of numbers.
Claims for pain and suffering and punitive policy.
Under that policy, safeguarding human subjects in Group damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions and, if clinical trials and patients who take Group products is of paramount allowed, can represent potentially open ended exposure and thus importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
and addressing matters of human safety.
The Global Safety Board In some cases, the Group may voluntarily cease marketing a product GSB, comprising senior physicians and representatives of supportive or face declining sales based on concerns about efcacy or safety, functions, as well as the lawyer who leads legal support for even in the absence of regulatory action.
Pharmaceuticals R&D, is an integral component of the system.
The GSB reviews investigational and marketed products within the Anti-trust litigation Pharmaceuticals R&D portfolio: subsidiary boards accountable to In the USA, it has become increasingly common for patent GSB, also with legal delegates, perform similar reviews for the infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have consumer healthcare products and vaccines.
been violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by direct and In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class actions.
as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster the The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution claims.
early resolution of new disputes as they arise and reduce the number Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government entities or of such disputes that actually proceed to litigation.
private parties following settlement of patent litigation, alleging that The Group formalised processes for proactive risk dispute such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation of anti-trust management.
The programme aims to drive a more standardised laws.
In the USA and Europe, regulatory authorities have continued to practice to the early resolution of disputes and consistent use across challenge as anti-competitive so-called reverse payment settlements the organisation, and establishes a specic vocabulary and identity between innovator branded and generic drug manufacturers.
for the concept of early analysis and resolution, thereby accelerating The US Supreme Court is currently reviewing the legality of such the desired culture shift.
The Legal group also routinely trains the settlement agreements.
The Group may also be subject to other Groups employees on strategies to attempt to minimize the Groups anti-trust litigation involving competition claims unrelated to patent litigation exposure.
A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or government entity against the Group could materially In response to the execution of the CIA, the Group implemented an and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
enterprise steering committee to ensure oversight and governance for CIA compliance.
Additionally, the Group appointed a senior Sales and marketing litigation executive within its US-based Compliance group whose role is to The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory provide assurance to senior management and the Board that the environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure to Group is complying with its obligations under the CIA.
comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these The Group continues to evaluate its commercial practices, not only jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings brought to ensure compliance with the CIA, but to also nd opportunities to against the Group by governmental entities at the federal and state limit or eliminate commercial activities that may not effectively align levels and by private plaintiffs.
As those rules and regulations change to our commercial strategy, values, and or that may result in or as governmental interpretation of those rules and regulations unnecessary risks.
For example, the Group implemented a system for evolve, conduct of the Group may be called into question.
evaluating and compensating our sales professionals in the USA for In the USA, for example, the Group settled a number of federal and the quality of their interactions with healthcare professionals, state investigations into the marketing of certain of its products and including an element of customer evaluation, rather than for entered into a CIA with the federal government relating to the achieving individual sales targets.
Groups marketing and promotion of its products in the USA.
86 GSK Annual Report 2012 Risk factors Managing environmental, health, safety and Mitigating activities include sustainability compliance The Group regularly engages in credit risk monitoring activities relating to these wholesalers, including review of periodic financial Risk description: Risk of ineffectively managing environment, information and credit ratings, develops and monitors Group internal health, safety, and sustainability EHSS objectives and risk ratings, and establishes and periodically reviews credit limits.
requirements Protecting our information The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
Risk description: Risk of exposing business critical or sensitive The Group has also been identied as a potentially responsible party data due to inadequate data governance or information under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation systems security and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to the Groups use or ownership of such sites.
The Group relies on critical and sensitive data, such as corporate strategic plans, personally identiable information, trade secrets and Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in intellectual property, to drive planning and operations.
Security of additional remedial costs that may materially and adversely affect this type of data is exposed to escalating external threats that are the Groups financial results.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, increasing in sophistication and changing from a goal of disruption Legal proceedings, for a discussion of environmental related to being nancially or politically motivated.
proceedings in which the Group is involved.
The Group routinely accrues amounts related to its liabilities for such matters.
Failure to implement appropriate safeguards to adequately protect against any unauthorised or unintentional access, acquisition, use, The impact of this risk, should the risk occur, could lead to significant modication, loss or disclosure of this critical or sensitive data may harm to people, the environment and communities in which the adversely impact the Groups ability to maintain patent rights and Group operates and the failure to meet stakeholder expectations competitive advantages and may result in legal non-compliance and regulatory requirements.
resulting in fines and penalties or inability to sell product in a particular market.
Mitigating activities include Management of EHSS risk is fundamental to the Groups performance Mitigating activities include and reputation.
The Group is committed to appropriately managing The Group assesses changes in our risk environment through EHSS risk and has embedded its importance into its mission to help briengs by government agencies, subscription to commercial threat people do more, feel better, live longer.
intelligence services and security information sharing with other The Group operates rigorous procedures to seek to eliminate hazards companies - both in our industry and beyond.
where practicable and protect employees health and well-being, The Groups policies and controls on information protection are but the right culture is our essential starting point.
Our employment regularly reviewed and employees are routinely trained.
The Group practices are designed to create a work place culture in which all has dedicated information security expertise and resources.
In Group employees feel valued, respected, empowered and inspired response to the changing external risk environment, the Group has to achieve our goals.
implemented a global programme to further increase business The Groups continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability awareness of information protection requirements, further define have reduced the Groups water consumption, hazardous waste, and minimum information security expectations for third-party energy consumption.
The Group actively manages our environmental agreements, implement additional technical controls to protect data, remediation obligations to ensure practices are environmentally and improve its security event monitoring.
The Group is also subject to various laws that govern the processing The Groups EHSS performance results are shared with the public of Personally Identiable Information Pll.
To ensure compliance each year in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
with cross-border transfer requirements for Pll, the Group has submitted an application for Binding Corporate Rules BCRs, which Concentration of sales to wholesalers is under review by the UK Information Commissioners Ofce.
The Groups BCRs would simplify the internal processing of Pll for human Risk description: Risk from the Groups sale of products to resource and research activities by creating one global standard.
a small number of wholesalers In the USA, similar to other pharmaceutical and vaccine companies, the Group sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
Sales to the three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 81% of the Groups US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover in 2012.
At 31 December 2012, the Group had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling 815 million 31 December 2011 934 million.
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more are affected by financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 87 Our Board 88 Our Corporate Executive Team 92 Chairmans letter 94 Governance & Board report to shareholders 95 Committee reports 103 Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter 109 remuneration Total remuneration for 2012 110 Pay for performance for 2012 111 Remuneration policy for 2013 113 Directors emoluments and total remuneration 127 Directors and Senior Management 136 Widening access to vaccines Through our agreement with the GAVI Alliance, we are supplying our vaccines at low prices to help millions of children in developing countries.
This arrangement is based on a sustainable long-term supply commitment see page 24.
