1.7 | Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected by competitive, eco nomic, political, legal, regulatory, social, business and financial risks and uncertainties.
The risks described below are those that the Group currently believes may materially affect it including following completion of the merger with Xstrata although this is not an exhaustive list.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Group, or those which are currently deemed to be im material, may become material and adversely affect the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and or prospects.
The results may differ significantly from those previously projected as a result of certain factors, including the risks which it faces, as described below.
The order in which the following is presented does not necessarily reflect the likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude of their potential material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and or prospects.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement.
EXTERNAL Fluctuation in expected volumes of supply or demand for the commodities in which the Group markets The Group is dependent on the ex Impact: Fluctuations in the volume of each commodity produced or marketed by the pected volumes of supply or demand for Group could materially impact the Groups business, results of operations and earn commodities in which the Group is ac ings.
These fluctuations could result in a reduction or increase in the income generated tive, which can vary over time based on in respect of the volumes handled by the Groups marketing activities, or a reduction changes in resource availability, govern or increase in the volume and or margin in respect of commodities produced by the ment policies and regulation, costs of Groups industrial assets.
production, global and regional econom ic conditions, demand in end markets for mItIgatIon: The risk of fluctuations in demand for the commodities in which the Group products in which the commodities are markets is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities to market, used, technological developments, in reducing the impact of movement in any one commodity market.
Individual commodi cluding commodity substitutions, fluc ties, even apparently closely linked products such as barley and wheat, have their own tuations in global production capacity, demand cycles reducing overreliance on any single product.
global and regional weather conditions, natural disasters and diseases, all of which impact global markets and fide mand for commodities.
Fluctuation of commodity prices The revenue and earnings of the Groups Impact: Fluctuations in the price of commodities produced or marketed could materi industrial asset activities and, to a lesser ally impact the Groups business, results of operations and earnings.
The impacts that extent, its marketing activities are fide fluctuating commodity prices have on the Groups business differ between its market pendent upon prevailing commodity ing activities and industrial activities.
Commodity prices are influenced by a number of external factors, including Marketing activities: In a market environment in which prices for a particular com the supply of and demand for commodi modity are higher on average, the premiums margins that the Group generates in its ties, speculative activities by market par physical marketing operations relating to such commodity as a result of geographical, ticipants, global political and economic time and quality imbalances tend to be higher.
The Group also generally benefits conditions and related industry cycles from fluctuating market prices, rather than long periods of stable prices, as it seeks to and production costs in major producing physically arbitrage such resulting price differentials.
As prices of commodities rise, countries.
the Group generally has higher working capital financing requirements over the same quantity of commodities in question.
During periods of falling commodity prices, the opposite applies in that the Group will require less working capital financing for its marketing activities.
Industrial activities: Higher prices will be particularly favourable to the profitability of the Group in respect of those commodities which the Group produces at its industrial assets or are produced by its associated companies and other investees.
Similarly, low prices will negatively impact the Groups industrial activities and could result in such activities incurring losses.
22 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally results in a decline in the Groups profitability during such a period and could potentially result in a devaluation of inventories and impairments.
Although the impact of a downturn on commodity prices affects the Groups marketing and industrial activities differently, the negative impact on its industrial activities is generally greater, as the profitability in the industri al activities is more directly exposed to price risk due to its higher level of fixed costs, while the Groups marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally operate a servicelike marginbased model.
mItIgatIon: The risk of fluctuations in commodity prices is managed by maintaining a diversified portfolio of commodities, reducing the impact of movement to any in dividual commodity price.
In addition, the Group continuously reviews and looks to optimise its asset portfolio to ensure it is sufficiently cost effective and efficient and a substantial portion of our inventory is either under contract for sale at a predeter mined price or hedged through futures and options on commodity exchanges or with highly rated counterparties.
Therefore, at any one time, the commodity price risk is restricted to a small proportion of the working capital balance.
Financial expense risk during periods of low commodities prices is mitigated by maintaining an investment grade rating and a mix of floating and fixed rate funding options, the former generally passed on via the transactional terms in marketing arrangements.
Fluctuation in currency exchange rates The vast majority of the Groups trans Impact: The vast majority of transactions undertaken by both the Groups marketing actions are denominated in U. S. Dollars, and industrial activities are denominated in U. S. Dollars.
However, the Group is ex while operating costs are spread across posed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates: several different countries the currencies of which fluctuate against the U. S. Dollar.
through its industrial activities, because a large proportion of the operating costs of these assets are denominated in the currency of the country in which each asset is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Australian Dollar, the Kazakhstan Tenge, the Colombian Peso, the Euro, the Chilean Peso, the Norwegian Kroner, the South African Rand, the Argentine Peso, the Peruvian Sol and the Cana dian Dollar including via Glencores stake in Xstrata : through the costs of the Groups global office network, which are denominated largely in the currency of the country in which each office is located, the largest of such currency exposures being to the Swiss Franc, the Pound Sterling and the Euro: and through its marketing activities, although only a small minority of purchase or sale transactions are denominated in currencies other than U. S. Dollars.
Foreign exchange rates have seen significant fluctuation in recent years and a depre ciation in the value of the U. S. Dollar against one or more of the currencies in which the Group incurs significant costs will therefore, to the extent it has not been hedged, result in an increase in the cost of these operations in U. S. Dollar terms and could ad versely affect the Groups financial results.
mItIgatIon: The Group manages the risk of fluctuating currency exchanges rates by operating in a number of different geographies and by hedging specific future non U. S. Dollar denominated commodity purchase or sale commitments.
| Annual Report 2012 | 23 Geopolitical risk The Group operates and owns assets in a Impact: The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large number of regions large number of geographic regions and and countries, if realised, could affect the Groups ability to manage or retain interests countries some of which are categorised in its industrial activities and could have a material adverse effect on the profitability, as developing, complex and having un ability to finance or, in extreme cases, viability of one or more of its industrial assets.
stable political or social climates and, as Although the Groups industrial assets are geographically diversified across various a result, is exposed to a wide range of countries, disruptions in certain of its industrial operations at any given time could political, economic, regulatory and tax have a material adverse effect on the Groups marketing business.
These environments are subject to change in a manner that may be mItIgatIon: Geopolitical risk is managed through geographical diversification of materially adverse for the Group, includ commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and with ing changes to government policies and the Groups network of field offices and a commitment to engage proactively with em regulations governing industrial produc ployees and the communities in which it operates, in order to maintain and improve tion, foreign investment, price controls, its licence to operate.
import and export controls, tariffs, subsi dies, income and other forms of taxation including policies relating to the granting of advance rulings on taxation matters, nationalisation or expropriation of prop erty, repatriation of income, royalties, the environment and health and safety.
Compliance with a significant number of laws and regulations As a diversified production, sourcing, Impact: These laws and regulations may allow governmental authorities and private marketing and distribution company parties to bring lawsuits based upon damages to property and injury to persons re conducting complex transactions global sulting from the environmental, health and safety and other impacts of the Groups ly, the Group is exposed to and subject to past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial fines, extensive laws and regulations governing penalties, other civil or criminal sanctions, the curtailment or cessation of opera various matters.
These include laws and tions, orders to pay compensation, orders to remedy the effects of violations and regulations relating to bribery and cor or orders to take preventative steps against possible future violations.
Moreover, ruption, taxation, antitrust, financial mar the costs associated with compliance with these laws and regulations are sub kets regulation, environmental protection, stantial.
Any changes to these laws or regulations or more stringent enforcement management and use of hazardous sub or restrictive interpretation of current laws and regulations could cause additional stances and explosives, management of expenditure including capital expenditure to be incurred or impose restrictions natural resources, licences over resources on or suspensions of the Groups operations and delays in the development of its owned by various governments, explora properties.
In addition, obtaining the necessary governmental permits can be a par tion, development of projects, produc ticularly complex and timeconsuming process and may involve costly undertakings.
tion and postclosure reclamation, the The duration and success of permit applications are contingent on many factors, employment of expatriates, labour and including those outside the Groups control.
Failure to obtain or renew a neces occupational health and safety standards, sary permit could mean that such companies would be unable to proceed with the and historic and cultural preservation.
development or continued operation of a mine or project, which, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
mItIgatIon: The Group is committed to complying with or exceeding the laws, regu lations and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the jurisdictions in which it operates and through continuous monitoring of legislative requirements and engagement with government and regulators it strives to ensure full compliance.
Liquidity risk The Groups failure to obtain funds could Liquidity, or ready access to funds, is essential to the Groups businesses.
Liquidity limit its ability to engage in desired ac risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or tivities and grow its business.
that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
While the Group adjusts its minimum internal liquidity targets in response to changes in market conditions, these minimum internal liquidity targets may be breached due to circumstances it is unable to control, such as general market disruptions, sharp 24 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion increases in the prices of commodities or an operational problem that affects its sup pliers or customers or itself.
Impact: A lack of liquidity may mean that the Group will not have funds available to maintain or increase its marketing activities and industrial activities.
Marketing activities: The Groups marketing activities employ significant amounts of working capital to fund purchases of commodities for future delivery to its end cus tomers, to meet margin requirements under derivative contracts and to fund the ac quisition and maintenance of certain transport and storage assets which complement its marketing activities.
Any inability to fund these amounts of working capital may prevent the Group from maintaining its historic levels of marketing activity or from increasing such levels in the future.
Industrial activities: The Groups industrial activities may be capital intensive and the continued funding of such activities is critical to maintain its ownership interests in its industrial assets, to maintain production levels in periods when net operating cash flow is negative or insufficient to cover capital expenditures, to increase production levels in the future in accordance with its business plans and to grow its industrial activities through the acquisition of new assets.
Any inability to fund these operating and capital expenditure requirements may prevent the Group from maintaining or growing its industrial activities production output.
mItIgatIon: The Group operates a policy of liquidity risk management, whereby it seeks to maintain via a minimum prescribed level sufficient cash and cash equiva lents and other sources of committed funding available to meet anticipated and unanticipated funding needs.
MARKETING ACTIVITIES Arbitrage opportunities The Groups marketing activities are fide Impact: Many of the physical commodity markets in which the Group operates are pendent, in part, on its ability to identify fragmented or periodically volatile.
As a result, discrepancies generally arise in and take advantage of arbitrage oppor respect of the prices at which the commodities can be bought or sold in different tunities.
forms, geographic locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality.
These pricing discrep ancies can present the Group with arbitrage opportunities whereby the Group is able to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing or otherwise processing the relevant commodities.
Profitability of the Groups marketing activities is, in large part, dependent on its ability to identify and exploit such arbitrage opportunities.
A lack of such opportunities, for example due to a prolonged period of pricing stability in a particular market, or an inability to take advantage of such opportunities when they present themselves, because of, for example, a shortage of liquidity or an inabil ity to access required logistics assets or other operational constraints, could adversely impact the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group mitigates the risk of an inability to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities or lack thereof by maintaining a diversified portfolio of products and through informational advantages the Group enjoys via its global network, its size able market share and logistics capabilities in many commodities enabling it to move quickly in response to arbitrage opportunities afforded by fluctuations and disequi librium in commodity markets.
Hedging strategy The Groups hedging strategy may not Impact: The Groups marketing activities involve a significant number of purchase and always be effective, does not require all sale transactions across multiple commodities.
To the extent the Group purchases a risks to be hedged and may leave an ex commodity from a supplier and does not immediately have a matching contract to sell posure to basis risk.
the commodity to a customer, a downturn in the price of the commodity could result | Annual Report 2012 | 25 in losses to the Group.
Conversely, to the extent the Group agrees to sell a commodity to a customer and does not immediately have a matching contract to acquire the com modity from a supplier, an increase in the price of the commodity could result in losses to the Group, as it then seeks to acquire the underlying commodity in a rising market.
In the event of disruptions in the commodity exchanges or markets on which the Group engages in hedging transactions, the Groups ability to manage commodity price risk may be adversely affected and this could in turn materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain commodities that the Group purchases and sells, which limits the Groups ability to fully hedge its exposure to price fluctuations for these commodities.
mItIgatIon: In order to mitigate the risks in its marketing activities related to commod ity price fluctuations and potential losses, the Group has a policy, at any given time, of hedging substantially all of its marketing inventory not already contracted for sale at predetermined prices through futures and swap commodity derivative contracts, either on commodities exchanges or in the over the counter market.
In instances where there are no traded or bilateral derivative markets for certain com modities, the Groups ability to hedge its commodity exposure is limited to forward contracts for the physical delivery of a commodity or futures and swap contracts for a different, but seemingly related, commodity.
Counterparty credit and performance risk The Group, in particular via its marketing Impact: Nonperformance by the Groups suppliers, customers and hedging counter activities, is subject to non performance parties may occur in a range of situations, such as: risk by its suppliers, customers and hedg ing counterparties.
a significant increase in commodity prices could result in suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities to the Group at pre agreed prices: a significant reduction in commodity prices could result in customers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities from the Group at preagreed prices: customers may take delivery of commodities from the Group and then find them selves unable to honour their payment obligations due to financial distress or any other reasons: and hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour their contractual commitment due to financial distress or other reasons.
Nonperformance by a counterparty could have an adverse impact on its business, results of operations and financial condition, including by creating an unintended, unmatched commodity price exposure.
In addition, financial assets consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long term advances and loans could potentially expose the Group to concentrations of credit risk.
mItIgatIon: The Group seeks to reduce the risk of customer nonperformance by requiring credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and bank guarantees, where appropriate, and by imposing limits on open accounts extended.
Whilst these limits are believed appropriate based on current levels of perceived risk, there is a possibility that a protracted difficult economic en vironment would negatively impact the quality of these exposures.
In addition, mark tomarket exposures in relation to hedging contracts are regularly and substantially collateralised primarily with cash pursuant to margin arrangements put in place with such hedge counterparties.
26 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion The Group actively monitors the credit quality of its counterparties, including the risk of nonperformance by suppliers and customers alike, through internal reviews, strong relationships and industry experience and a credit scoring process which in cludes, where available, public credit ratings.
Risk management policies and procedures Identifying, quantifying and managing Impact: The Groups marketing activities are exposed to commodity price, foreign risk is complex and challenging and al exchange, interest rate, counterparty including credit, operational, regulatory and though it is the Groups policy and prac other risks.
The Group has devoted significant resources to developing and imple tice to identify and, where appropriate menting policies and procedures to manage these risks and expects to continue to do and practical, actively manage such risks so in the future.
Nonetheless, the Groups policies and procedures to identify, monitor to support its objectives in managing and manage risks have not been fully effective in the past and may not be fully effec its capital and future financial security tive in the future.
Some of the Groups methods of monitoring and managing risk are and flexibility, the Groups policies and based on historical market behaviour that may not be an accurate predictor of future procedures may not adequately identify, market behaviour.
Other risk management methods depend on evaluation of infor monitor and quantify risk.
mation relating to markets, suppliers, customers and other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by the Group.
This information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up to date or properly evaluated.
Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these poli cies and procedures may not be fully effective in doing so.
Failure to mitigate all risks associated with the Groups business could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group uses, among other techniques, ValueatRisk, or VaR, as a key market risk measurement technique for its marketing activities.
VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by the Group, nor does the Group expect that VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR has certain limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
While the Group recognises these limitations and continuously refines its VaR analysis, there can be no assurance that its VaR analy sis will be an effective risk management methodology.
Management of counterparty nonpayment risk is mitigated by substantial use of credit enhancement products, in cluding letters of credit, insurance and bank guarantees.
Please refer to section 2.1Fi financial review for further explanation on the use of VaR.
Supply of commodities from third parties The Group purchases a portion of the Impact: Any disruptions in the supply of product by factors such as weather and other physical commodities sold by its market natural disasters, unexpected maintenance problems, collapse or damage to mines, ing activities from its controlled indus labour disruptions and changes in laws and regulations could adversely affect the trial operations and associates, including Groups margins.
The Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and Xstrata.
The remainder of the commodi prospects could be materially adversely impacted if it is unable to continue to source ties sourced by its marketing operations required volumes of commodities from its suppliers on reasonable terms or at all.
are purchased from third party suppli ers and entities in which the Group has mItIgatIon: The Group sources product from a large range of suppliers industrial as a minority stake excluding associates.
sets and third parties and is not reliant on any one supplier to satisfy its performance.
The Group expects to continue to source This enables the Group to source alternative product in the event of supply disruption.
commodities from such third parties in The Group benefits from investments in numerous communities and shared owner the future.
The Group is potentially ex ship with local entities that helps to mitigate against some country specific risks.
posed to both price and supply risks with respect to commodities sourced from third parties and entities in which it holds a minority stake.
The Group is reliant on third parties to source the majority of the commodities purchased by its marketing operations.
| Annual Report 2012 | 27 Freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support The Groups marketing activities require Impact: Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support access to significant amounts of freight, or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain which impedes the Groups ability storage, infrastructure and logistics sup to deliver its products on time, could adversely affect the Groups business, results of port and it is exposed to increases in the operations or financial condition.
In addition, the Group of ten competes with other producers, pur mItIgatIon: The risk of disruptions to or limitations of freight, storage, infrastructure chasers or marketers of commodities or and logistics support is mitigated through the Groups market position, global reach other products for limited storage and and its longstanding relationships with third party suppliers of freight.
These give the berthing facilities at ports and freight Group an advantage in ensuring its commodity transport needs are met along with its terminals, which can result in delays in investments in storage and logistic assets such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, loading or unloading the Groups prod metals and other warehouses and grain silos.
ucts and expose the Group to significant delivery interruptions.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES Non-controlling stakes, joint ventures and strategic, partnership arrangements Some of the Groups industrial assets are Impact: The Group does not control a number of its industrial investments.
Although held through noncontrolling stakes or the Group has various structures in place which seek to protect its position where it joint ventures and strategic partnership does not exercise control, the boards of these companies may: arrangements.
have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with or are opposed to those of the Group: exercise veto rights or take shareholders decisions so as to block actions that the Group believes to be in its best interests and or in the best interests of all shareholders: take action contrary to the Groups policies or objectives with respect to its invest ments or commercial arrangements: or as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfil their obli gations under any joint venture or other agreement, such as contributing capital to expansion or maintenance projects.
Improper management or ineffective policies, procedures or controls of a noncon trolled entity could adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the relevant investment and, therefore, of the Group.
mItIgatIon: Where projects and operations are controlled and managed by the Groups coinvestors or where control is shared on an equal basis, the Group may provide expertise and advice, but it has limited or restricted ability to mandate com pliance with the Groups policies and or objectives.
Project development The Group has a number of significant Impact: Any future upward revisions in estimated project costs, delays in completing expansions planned for its existing op planned expansions, cost overruns, suspension of current projects or other operation erations and plans for certain new pro al difficulties after commissioning, may have a material adverse effect on the Groups jects, the development of which is ex business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects, in turn requiring the posed to a number of risks outside of its Group to consider delaying discretionary expenditures, including capital expendi control such as technical uncertainties, tures, or suspending or altering the scope of one or more of its development projects.
availability of suitable financing, infra structure constraints, cost overruns, in mItIgatIon: Project development risks are mitigated and managed through the Groups sufficient labour skills or resources and continuous project status evaluation and reporting processes, the significant focus of delays in permitting or other regulatory such being appropriate approval processes and transparent and timely reporting of matters.
costs and progress relative to plan.
Significant projects are regularly audited against the project plan and reporting processes.
28 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion Operating risks and hazards The Groups industrial activities are sub Impact: These risks and hazards could result in damage to, or destruction of, proper ject to numerous operating risks and haz ties or production facilities, may cause production to be reduced or to cease at those ards normally associated with the devel properties or production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality of the prod opment and operation of natural resource ucts, personal injury or death, environmental damage, business interruption and legal projects, many of which are beyond the liability and may result in actual production differing from estimates of production.
The realisation of such operating risks and hazards and the costs associated with them These operating risks and hazards include could materially adversely affect the Groups business, results of operations and finan unanticipated variations in grade and cial condition, including by requiring significant capital and operating expenditures to other geological problems, seismic ac abate the risk or hazard, restore the Group or third party property, compensate third tivity, climatic conditions such as flood parties for any loss and or pay fines or damages.
ing or drought, metallurgical and other processing problems, technical failures, mItIgatIon: Operating risks and hazards are managed through the Groups continuous unavailability of materials and equip assessment, reporting and communication of the risks that affect its business through ment, interruptions to power supplies, its annual risk review processes and updates to its risk register.
In addition, risk is miti industrial actions or disputes, industrial gated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
accidents, labour force disruptions, un anticipated logistical and transportation constraints, tribal action or political pro tests, force majeure factors, environmen tal hazards, fire, explosions, vandalism and crime.
Title to the land, resource tenure and extraction rights The Group has industrial activities in Impact: Any dispute, relating to a material industrial asset, could disrupt or delay vestments in certain countries where ti relevant mining, processing or other projects and or impede the Groups ability to tle to land and rights in respect of land develop new industrial properties, which may have a material adverse effect on the and resources including indigenous ti Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
tle has not been and may not always be clear, creating the potential for disputes mItIgatIon: Title and tenure risks are managed through geographical diversification over resource development.
Title to the of commodities and operations, continuous monitoring and dialogue through and Groups mining and hydrocarbon rights with the Groups network of local offices and a commitment to engage proactively may be challenged or impugned, and with employees, governments and the communities in which the Group operates to title insurance may not generally be avail maintain and better its licence to operate.
In many cases, the government of the country in which a particular asset is located is the sole authority able to grant such rights and, in some cases, may have limited infrastructure and limited re sources which may constrain the Groups ability to ensure that it has obtained se cure title to individual exploration licenc es or extraction rights.
Availability of infrastructure The production, processing and product Impact: The mining, drilling, processing, development and exploration activities of delivery capabilities of the Groups in the industrial assets in which the Group holds an interest depend on adequate infra dustrial assets rely on their infrastructure structure.
Certain of these assets are located in areas that are sparsely populated and being adequate and remaining available.
Reliable roads, power sources, transport infrastructure and water supplies are essential for the conduct of these operations and the availability and cost of these utilities and infrastructure affect capital and operating costs and therefore the Groups ability to maintain expected levels of production and results of opera tions.
Unusual weather or other natural phenomena, sabotage or other interference in the maintenance or provision of such infrastructure could impact the development of a project, reduce production volumes, increase extraction or exploration costs or delay the transportation of raw materials to the mines and projects and commodities to end customers.
Any such issues arising in respect of the infrastructure supporting | Annual Report 2012 | 29 or on the Groups sites could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
mItIgatIon: Availability of infrastructure risk is mitigated through the continuous moni toring and dialogue through and with the Groups network of local offices, a com mitment to engage proactively with governments and the communities in which the Group operates to maintain and improve its licence to operate, and where appropri ate, the establishment of backup sources of power.
Cost control As commodity prices themselves are Impact: Production costs are heavily influenced by the extent of ongoing develop outside of the Groups control, the com ment required, ore grades, mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy petitiveness and sustainable longterm and supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on costs of opera profitability of its industrial asset port tions.
All of the Groups industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by increas folio depends significantly on its ability es in costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are also significantly affected to closely manage costs and maintain by production volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor a broad spectrum of lowcost, efficient in determining the overall cost competitiveness of the Groups industrial activities.
Costs associated with the Any increase in input costs will adversely affect the Groups results of operations and operation of the Groups industrial as financial condition.
sets can be broadly categorised into la bour costs and other onsite expenses, mItIgatIon: Maintaining costs and where appropriate lowering them is supported by the including power and equipment costs.
Groups continuous reporting on these measures, coupled with the inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures in assessing management performance.
In addition, risk is mitigated somewhat through geographic and multiple project diversification.
Resources and reserves The Groups stated mineral, coal and hy Impact: Actual reserves, resources or mineralised potential may not conform to ge drocarbon reserves, resources and min ological, metallurgical or other expectations, and the volume and grade of ore or eralised potential are only estimates and product recovered may be below the estimated levels.
Lower market prices, increased the anticipated volumes or grades may production costs, reduced recovery rates and other factors may render the Groups not be achieved.
reserves, resources or mineralised potential uneconomical to exploit and may result in revision of its reserve estimates from time to time.
If the Groups actual mineral, coal and hydrocarbon reserves and resources are less than current estimates or if the Group fails to develop its resource base through the realisation of identified or new mineral potential, the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected.
mItIgatIon: The Group updates annually the quantity and quality of the estimated proven and probable reserves to reflect extraction, additional drilling and other avail able data in accordance with internationally recognised reporting frameworks, includ ing JORC, SAMREC and PRMS.
For the major deposits, the estimates are prepared and signed off by independent competent persons.
Environmental hazards The processes and chemicals used in Impact: Where the Group holds or has interests in industrial activities, these assets are the Groups extraction and production generally subject to environmental hazards as a result of the processes and chemicals methods, as well as its shipping and used in traditional extraction, production, storage, disposal and transportation meth storage activities, are subject to environ ods.
Environmental hazards may exist on the Groups owned or leased properties or mental hazards.
at those of the industrial activities in which it holds an interest, or may be encountered while its products are in transit.
The storage of tailings at the Groups industrial assets may present a risk to the environment, property and persons, where there remains a risk of leakage from or failure of the Groups tailings dams, as well as theft and vandal ism during the operating life of the assets or after closure.
Additionally, the Group conducts oil exploration and drilling activities and also stores and transports crude oil and oil products around the world.
Damage to exploration or drilling equipment, a vessel carrying oil or a facility where oil is stored could lead to a spill, causing environmental damage with significant cleanup or remediation costs.
30 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion The Group may be liable for losses associated with environmental hazards, have its licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or may be forced to undertake exten sive remedial cleanup action or to pay for governmentordered remedial cleanup actions, even in cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subse quent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by independent third party contractors providing services to the Group or by acts of vandalism by trespassers.
Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, ac tions or payments may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: Compliance with international and local regulations and standards, pro tecting our people, communities and the environment from harm and our operations from business interruptions are top priorities for the Group.
The Group operating procedures and those of its partners in relation to owned tankers conform to industry best practise working under the guidelines of the International Maritime Organisa tion IMO, relevant Flag States and top tier Classification societies.
Tankers char tered from third parties are required to meet strict vetting inspection requirements in line with OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum and the Groups own standards.
The Groups oil exploration activities engage best industry practises and procedures and utilise first class drilling contractors with proven expertise and experience.
Additionally, widespread and comprehensive insurance cover is actively procured, to reduce the financial impact of operational risks, property damage, busi ness interruption and environmental liabilities to the extent possible.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Emissions and climate change regulation The Groups global presence exposes Impact: Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, including the progressive it to a number of jurisdictions in which introduction of carbon emissions trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction regulations or laws have been or are be targets is likely to raise production, transportation and administrative costs.
In addi ing considered to limit or reduce emis tion, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in the jurisdictions of the Groups major sions.
The likely effect of these changes customers and in relation to international shipping could also have a material adverse will be to increase the cost for fossil fu effect on the demand for some of the Groups products.
els, impose levies for emissions in excess certain permitted levels and increase mItIgatIon: The Group, through its sustainability program, strives to ensure emissions administrative costs for monitoring and and climate change issues are identified, understood and effectively managed and reporting.
monitored in order to meet international best practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
Community relations The continued success of the Groups ex Impact: If it is perceived that the Group is not respecting or advancing the economic and isting operations and its future projects social progress and safety of the communities in which it operates, the Groups reputa are in part dependent upon broad sup tion and shareholder value could be damaged, which could have a negative impact on port and a healthy relationship with the its social licence to operate, its ability to secure new resources and its financial perfor respective local communities.
The consequences of negative community reaction could also have a material adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability to finance or even the viability of an oper ation.
Such events could lead to disputes with national or local governments or with local communities or any other stakeholders and give rise to material reputational damage.
If the Groups operations are delayed or shut down as a result of political and community instability, its earnings may be constrained and the longterm value of its business could be adversely impacted.
Even in cases where no action adverse to the Group is actually taken, the uncertainty associated with such political or community instability could nega tively impact the perceived value of the Groups assets and industrial investments and, consequently, have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group believes that the best way to manage these vital relationships is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and cooperation and in doing so it engages with local communities to present and demonstrate the positive communal | Annual Report 2012 | 31 attributes of the Groups local operations and ensure that appropriate measures are taken to prevent or mitigate possible adverse effects on them, along with the regular reporting of such.
Employees The maintenance of positive employee Impact: Some of the Groups employees, as well as employees in noncontrolled and union relations and the ability to at industrial investments, are represented by labour unions under various collective tract and retain skilled workers are key to labour agreements.
The Group or the industrial investments in which it holds an inter the success of the Group.
est may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its collective labour agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case for nonunionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at its facilities in the future, and any strike or other work stoppage could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
The success of the Groups business is also dependent on its ability to attract and retain highly effective marketing and logistics personnel as well as highly qualified and skilled engineers and other industrial, technical and project experts to operate its industrial activities in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
The Group may not be able to attract and retain such qualified personnel and this could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group understands that one of the key factors in its success is a good and trustworthy relationship with its people.
This priority is reflected in the principles of its corporate practice and its related guidance, which require regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remunera tion and, above all, a safe working environment.
Health, safety and environment The Groups operations are subject to Impact: New or amended environmental, health and safety legislation or regula health, safety and environmental regula tions may result in increased operating costs or, in the event of non compliance or tions and legislation along with complying accidents or incidents causing personal injury or death or property or environmental with the Groups corporate sustainability damage at or to the Groups mines, smelters, refineries, concentrators, drill rigs or re framework.
lated facilities such as logistics and storage facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, interruptions in production, expensive litigation, imposition of penalties and sanctions or suspension or revocation of permits and licences, even in cases where such hazards have been caused by any previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by any past or present owners of adjacent properties, by independent third party contractors providing services to the Group or by acts of van dalism by trespassers.
Any such losses, withdrawals, suspensions, actions or payments may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group is committed to comply with or exceed the laws, regulations and best practice guidelines applicable to its operations and products in the jurisdic tions in which it operates and through its extensive compliance program, including continuous monitoring of legislative requirements and engagement with government and regulators, it strives to ensure full compliance.
32 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion OTHER RISKS Mergers and acquisitions The Group may fail to integrate mergers Impact: Business combinations entail a number of risks, including the ability of the or acquisitions effectively, including in Group to integrate effectively the businesses acquired with its existing operations connection with the merger with Xstrata, such as the realisation of anticipated synergies, significant onetime writeoffs or or fail to realise the anticipated business restructuring charges, difficulties in achieving optimal tax structures, unanticipated growth opportunities or other synergies costs, addressing possible differences in business culture, processes, controls, proce in connection with such mergers or ac dures and systems and failing to integrate and motivate key employees and or retain quisitions.
certain individuals during the integration period.
For example, the performance of the Group in the future will, amongst other things, depend on its ability to integrate Xstrata successfully without disruption to the existing business.
Failure to successfully integrate a business, including in connection with the merger with Xstrata, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and or prospects.
All of these may be exacerbated by the diversion of managements attention away from other ongoing business concerns.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions or liabilities of companies or businesses it has acquired, which may be unforeseen or greater than anticipated at the time of the relevant acquisition.
In addition, various factors could impact the estimated synergies for potential acquisitions and have a material adverse impact on the Groups business, results of operations and financial condition.
mItIgatIon: The Group understands that businesses combinations, whether as a re sult of a merger or an acquisition, entail a number of risks.
Such risks are mitigated through detailed integration planning and by establishing dedicated integration teams to ensure effective integration of businesses.
In particular, the Group believes that, in the case of the merger with Xstrata, integration risks are reduced by bringing two highly complementary businesses with a longstanding relationship.
| Annual Report 2012 | 33 FPSO Aseng sailaway, Singapore Business review 2 | Business review 2.1 | Financial review 36 2.2 | Metals and minerals 46 2.3 | Energy products 54 2.4 | Agricultural products 60 2.5 | Reserves and resources 64
