Managing risk We are committed to managing risk effectively.
Our management structure incorporates a robust framework for risk management and internal control.
How we manage risk Through our risO management and internal control systems, we are able to identify, assess and prioritise risOs to our business and seeO to minimise, monitor and control their probability and impact whilst maximising the opportunities they present.
RisOs are monitored on an ongoing basis through our risO management processes and are mitigated through the internal control environment.
Residual risOs are assessed and it is determined whether they will be accepted as an integral part of the business, or deemed unacceptable and therefore either reduced, transferred to third parties or avoided by no longer pursuing the relevant activities.
During the year, the Group continued to develop its risO management processes.
The Oey areas of focus included improving the consistency in reporting across all operating companies, increased dialogue at monthly operating company Board meetings and enhancing the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors.
Who does what The diagram opposite illustrates the Oey roles and responsibilities of each of the respective functions within our risO management frameworO.
9ltimate accountability for risO management lies with the Board, supported by the worO of the Audit Committee to which the Board has delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risO management and internal control systems.
:ith clear leadership from the Board and Audit Committee, the Executive Directors play an integral role in helping the operating companies identify, assess and monitor their respective risOs and controls.
Through monthly Andrew Allner, Audit Committee Chairman meetings with the senior management of each operating company, the Executive Directors encourage open communication on risO matters within a clearly dened frameworO and reporting process.
3wnership of risO identication and mitigation lies with the senior management in operating companies :here to nd out more where it is an integral part of day to day local company operations.
The Corporate governance report on pages 54 to 70 provides more detail of What are the risks Go-Aheads risO management and The tables below and overleaf summarise our assessment of the Oey risOs that could have a material internal control frameworO.
impact on the Groups performance.
:hilst all risOs are closely managed, this report does not identify risOs that are considered to have a lesser impact or liOelihood of occurrence.
Key risks for 2012 Potential impact Mitigating action Negative impact on the Groups businesses, Continue to focus our operations in more resilient geographical areas External largely through a reduction in demand for in the 9K.
In rail, franchise bids maOe economic Local management constantly assesses the needs of the local marOets assumptions years into the future.
A weaOer and tailors services and products accordingly.
economy can lead to under performance Focus on driving volumes through innovative and targeted marOeting.
Generate customer loyalty through smart-ticOeting.
Changes to law, regulations, local authority Limited exposure to local authority funding as 90% of deregulated Political and attitudes towards public transport and further bus operations are commercial.
regulatory framework reductions in the availability of government Actively participate in Oey industry, trade and government financial support could adversely impact the steering groups.
Groups operations and financial position.
Maintain close relationships with Oey industry partners and staOeholders.
9se internal initiatives across the business to offset external issues.
Fuel is a significant cost to the Group.
Both Established fuel hedging policy detailed on page 37 reduces uncertainty Fuel cost our bus and rail operations are exposed to and enables us to plan ahead.
fuel cost volatility, primarily diesel for buses Ability to offset in bus division outside of London through yield benets.
and electricity for rail traction.
Increased prices could adversely impact our financial position.
The sustainability of rail profits is dependent Flexible and experienced management team which responds quicOly Strategic on a number of factors.
The nature of the and expertly to changing circumstances.
Sustainability of rail profits current rail franchising model leads to high Shared risO through Govia, which is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and volatility of earnings failure to retain or win 35% by Keolis.
new franchises could impact greatly on the Element of protection through revenue support arrangements.
overall profitability of the Group failure to significant resource and financial investment in bidding for new franchises, comply with conditions of rail franchise including the recruitment of a permanent bid team.
agreements could lead to financial penalties Regular Board review of rail performance, and Board approval or even the termination of a rail franchise.
of overall rail bidding strategy.
Compliance with franchise conditions closely monitored.
30 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Go-Ahead Group plc Board of Directors Leadership of risO management Sets strategic obNectives Monitors performance Accountable for the effectiveness of the and risO appetite Groups internal control and risO management processes Audit Committee Delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risO Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Monitors the role and effectiveness of the internal management and internal controls and risO management processes auditors and the independence and expertise of the external auditors Executive Directors Internal Audit Communicate and disseminate risO policies Independently review the effectiveness of the Groups risO management Support and help operating companies assess risO and internal control processes Encourage open communication on risO matters Monitor and validate action taOen by management 3versee risO management Provide assurance Monitor performance Report monthly to the Executive Directors Assess materiality of risOs in the context of the whole Group Report quarterly to the Audit Committee Monitor mitigation and controls Facilitate sharing of risO management information and best practice across the Group 3perating Company Boards define risO management roles at operational 9se risO as an explicit part of decision-maOing Continuous identication of risO, assurance and proNect level and management of external relationships and self-assessment Potential opportunities Change in risk in the year A more challenging economic environment encourages modal shift, as motorists The economic risO increased in the year as we re-entered a recession seeO value for money alternatives to the private car.
The cost of petrol alone has with economic growth rates for the year ended.
risen at a higher rate than the cost of travel on public transport.
Changes in law, regulation or funding could positively impact on the Group, The recent reduction of the Bus Service 3perators Grant BS3G potentially leading to increased funding or more exibility for operators.
For was enacted in April 2012 which will result in the Group receiving example, the Government announced 9bn to be inNected into the rail industry c10m less fuel subsidy in the 2012 13 financial year.
The political and regulatory frameworO provides us with the aware of the planned reduction for some time and have been able opportunity to inuence decisions through close dialogue with Government, to plan ahead.
local authorities and other Oey parties.
Increases in fuel costs also affect motorists who may looO to public transport for :e are exposed to around 10m of additional cost in the 2012 13 a better value for money means of travel.
financial year due to a higher cost of diesel per litre through our fuel hedging arrangements.
Twelve rail franchises are up for tender in the next four years, presenting growth The economic environment presents challenges in the Southern opportunities for the Group.
There may be the opportunity for increased earnings franchise as the bid model in 2009 assumed stronger underlying if the economic climate is stronger than assumed in a franchise bid.
economic growth rates at this stage in the franchise.
This has begun to impact on the financial performance of the franchise.
com 31 Managing RisO continued Ongoing risks Potential impact Mitigating action An incident, such as a maNor accident, an act of Rigorous, high prole health and safety programme throughout the Group.
Operational terrorism, an Act of God or a pandemic, could Appropriate and regularly reviewed and tested contingency and disaster Catastrophic incident result in serious inNury, disruption to service recovery plans.
Poor employee relations or reduced availability Ensuring Go-Ahead is viewed as an employer of choice.
Labour costs and of staff could impact on reputation, revenue Robust and regularly reviewed recruitment and retention policies, training employee relations and staff morale.
Labour costs are a high schemes and worOing practices.
proportion of our cost base.
Even relatively Experienced approach to wage negotiations and fostering good small percentage increases in wages could have relationships with employees and unions.
For example, an increase of 1% in staff costs would increase costs by 8.3m.
Prolonged or maNor failure of information Process standardisation and continued investment in best practice systems.
Information technology technology systems could pose significant risO Clear and tested business continuity plans.
failure or interruption to the ability to operate and trade.
3ur suppliers are Oey to the successful delivery Maintain strong relationships with Oey suppliers.
Supply chain management of our services.
3ne of our Oey suppliers failing Ensure effective tender processes and policies.
to full contractual obligations could result in disruption to our operations.
The Group participates in a number of Rail pension schemes and obligations are guaranteed by DfT at the end Financial pension schemes detailed on page 42. of the franchise.
Increased pension scheme Any funding shortfalls in dened benefit Non-rail dened benefit schemes closed to new entrants.
schemes could adversely impact the Board participation in overall pensions strategy decisions for non-rail funding required Groups financial position.
Dedicated Investment Sub-Committee worOs with management on fide-risOing of investments to mitigate volatility.
The number and magnitude of claims falling Comprehensive insurance cover, with self-insurance up to dened limits Insurance and claims within the Groups self-insured limits could and purchases above these limits from reputable global insurance rms.
impact the financial position of the Group.
Insurance and claims activity monitored closely.
Loss of liquidity, credit risO on cash investments Board approved treasury policy, regularly reviewed.
Financing risk and interest rate risO could have a negative Investment grade credit rating Standard & Poor BBBMoodys Baa3.
impact on the financial position of the Group.
Medium-term nancing secured through our 200m sterling bond, until September 2017 and our five year 275m revolving credit facility, until February 2016.
Comprehensive, low risO cash investment policy.
83% of net debt is subNect to xed interest rates.
3ur London bus business and a small Good reputation for quality and deliverability.
Strategic proportion of our bus operations outside Strong management teams, experienced in submitting competitive tenders.
Contract work London are reliant on running contracted In London, we have well located depots 85% freehold.
Should we fail to retain existing contracts or win new worO this could have an adverse impact on Group profitability.
Loss of business to existing competitors :orO hard to maintain our good reputation with our customers.
Competition or new entrants to the marOets in which :orO closely with staOeholders to ensure we are meeting requirements we operate could have a significant impact including service quality and price.
Inappropriate strategic or investment decisions Comprehensive strategic discussions with main Board and advisors.
Inappropriate strategy could adversely impact on the Groups Extensive valuation and due diligence, supported by external expertise.
or investment economic and shareholder value.
Maintain discipline to turn down opportunities.
Minimum return on capital requirements of all investment opportunities.
Cautious approach to investment opportunities overseas and outside our core operating areas.
3ur reputation as a responsible operator Committed to operating in a safe, socially and environmentally Environmental is a Oey strength of our business.
Environmental risk to maintain our high standards may negatively Dedicated Environment and Energy Manager focused on reducing impact the Group.
Launched the Driving Energy Further scheme in 2010 with a target of cutting our carbon emissions per passenger Nourney by 20% by 2015.
32 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Potential opportunities Change in risk in the year The threat of such an event requires our staff to be well trained and prepared :e have made good progress against our safety KPIs in the year, at all times.
Continuous review of processes and procedures can identify areas for demonstrating our efforts to minimise this risO.
Through fostering positive employee relations and offering good employment Although our involvement in providing transport for the London 2012 pacOages we have a motivated and committed worOforce, with low staff turnover 3lympic Games has presented challenges from trade unions in respect and absenteeism rates across all businesses.
of bonus payments to bus drivers in London, overall our labour relations remain strong.
Ensuring our systems are efficient and reliable, strengthens day to day operations No material change.
Through forming alliances and worOing closely with suppliers we seeO to No material change.
deliver efficiencies, improve the quality of our services and reduce our impact on the environment.
As the Board is actively engaged in discussions regarding Group pensions, :e are awaiting the result of an actuarial valuation, expected at the end a regular review of pension arrangements may benefit the Group.
Investing in driver training and continually assessing health and safety improves By increasing driver training, reducing the number of accidents and the quality of our business for employees and passengers.
managing claims more closely, we have reduced the impact of insurance claims, with the cost of claims down 3.6m in the year.
In a difficult economic environment there is a requirement to monitor and No material change.
manage nances more closely, giving greater assurances of tight financial control and discipline.
There is the opportunity to win more contracts, widening the areas in which we No material change.
operate in London and increasing our share of the marOet.
Competition in a low margin marOet could lead to poor performers exiting the marOet in the long term.
Partnering with competitors may provide opportunities.
For example, we operate No material change.
a 5uality Partnership with Stagecoach in 3xford which benets passengers.
Continual review of strategy ensures the Board is well placed to sei e value Turn to page 21 to read more about our strategy.
adding opportunities as they arise.
By attracting more people away from their cars and onto our services we have :e have made good progress against our Driving Energy Further target, the opportunity to help reduce carbon emissions in the 9K.
having achieved a 14% reduction and were delighted to be reaccredited by the Carbon Trust Standard during the year.
