Corporate governance continued How we manage the Groups risk management and internal control system Managing risk For more information on how the Group manages The Boards responsibilities risk, including a table showing a description of the For the financial year ended 30 June 2012 and up to the date of approval of this report, the key risks facing the Group, how they are mitigated, Board confirms that it has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance potential opportunities and an indication of how the Code and has established procedures that implement in full the guidance given in Internal risks are changing, please turn to pages 30 to 33.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board recognises its responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control system and is committed to ensuring its effectiveness in every respect.
The Board is satisfied that there are procedures in place which identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks facing the Group, including social, environmental and governance risks.
A formal review of the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives is undertaken at the end of each financial year.
A formal review at the half-year is also undertaken to take account of material changes and trends in the Groups risk prole.
These reviews include top-down risk assessment at Group level and bottom-up risk assessments at operating company level.
A bespoke risk categorisation and assessment model exists which is used across the Group to ensure that risks are identied and reported on a consistent basis.
A process is in place to aggregate key risks on a Group wide basis and share information across the operating companies.
The tables on pages 30 to 33 summarise the Boards assessment of the key risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance.
Board-level reporting The Board is supported by the work of the Audit Committee which has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
During the year the Audit Committee regularly reviewed reports from , the Groups internal auditors for risk management and internal controls, and P, SC, the Groups, ealth and Safety consultants.
Reports were also regularly reviewed from the external auditors, Ernst and Young, and the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups position and the Board receives regular updates on how specic risks that are assessed as material are being managed on at least a biannual basis.
Group struGture Ownership of risk identication and mitigation lies with the senior management in operating Risk structure companies where it is an integral part of day-to-day local company operations.
The Groups decentralised organisation structure enables the Executive Directors to play an active role in The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors supporting senior management in assessing and managing risks and internal controls.
Through monthly meetings, there is open and ongoing communication on risk matters which is then supported by the more formal year-end and half-year reviews.
The Executive Directors also Audit Committee communicate the objectives, risk strategy and policy of the Group.
The Groups structure has the benefit of enabling it to respond quickly to new, emerging or changing risks, with risk management information shared across the Group as well as reported upwards.
Executive Internal Internal audit Audit Directors The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to  on a rolling twelve month contract, with overall responsibility and direction being retained by the Board.
The internal audit function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal Operating Company Boards controls as identied as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local management, the Internal Auditor reports to the Executive Directors at least six times per year and to the Audit Committee at least three times per year.
During the course of the year, the co-ordination between the internal and external auditors has been improved to enable increased reliance on the work of the internal audit function.
64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FinanGial reporting and planning proGesses In accordance with the Groups policies and procedures, there are formally dened lines of financial reporting responsibility, delegated authorities, capital investment approval policies and clear operating processes.
Monthly reporting of financial information to the Board encompasses profit and loss, cashow and balance sheet information and key operating ratios.
The annual budgeting and strategic planning process includes regular re-forecasting of results, taking into account key risks and opportunities.
Adherence to the Groups policies and procedures by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all Group entities ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
There is regular reporting to the Board on specic matters including safety, insurance, pensions, tax and treasury management.
Business planning encompasses due diligence and risk assessments where businesses are being acquired or divested and all projects and partnerships are entered into taking into account an appropriate risk-reward balance.
ComplianGe management During the year, an extensive review of the Groups Policy and Procedures Manual the Manual was carried out in conjunction with the internal auditors.
The Manual is designed to reinforce the Boards high standards and values with respect to corporate governance, internal control processes and risk management.
All operating companies must adhere to this Manual and certify annually that they have done so.
In addition, the Board gains added assurance that there are effective risk management and internal control systems in place from the Groups core management structure and the operating, financial, risk management, and compliance reporting processes.
ealth and safety reporting proGesses, ealth and safety standards have been established across all operating companies and key performance indicators are closely monitored at monthly operating company Board meetings.
The Group Chief Executive reports on health and safety, which includes key performance indicators, at each Board meeting.
:histle blowing anti-bribery proGedures The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, openness and accountability and a whistle blowing policy has been issued to all operating companies to ensure a consistent approach across the organisation.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
Any matters of signicance are reported to the Audit Committee.
During the year, no issues of signicance were raised.
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act and procedures have been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
Any issues arising under the Bribery Act are dealt with promptly and appropriately by the Group Compliance officer.
Training has been provided to the Board of Directors and senior management who are in turn responsible for ensuring their staff comply with the provisions of the Bribery Act.
Training is refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of the Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially justifying dismissal.
