26 26 Business review rISkS AND uNCerTAINTIeS The groups operations expose it to a variety of risks, effective management ofwhich is essential to the delivery of the groups business plans and strategic objectives, as well as maximising shareholder returns.
Our approach is geared towards early identification of key risks, managing and mitigating those risks and responding quickly and effectively should a risk crystallise.
Formal risk management processes are Using a group-wide consistent approach, each The audit committee regularly reviews the inplace across the group to identify and business unit or functional area reviews its risk management processes for each division evaluate risks, taking into account the risks and mitigation plans on a regular basis, and also reviews the groups key risks, as set likelihood of their occurrence, the scale and draws up plans tomanage new risks or out on the group's risk register, on an annual ofpotential impact on the business and gaps in mitigation plans.
Progress ofthese risk basis, prior to their submission to the board, theeffectiveness of planned risk mitigation implementation plans is monitored by senior which retains ultimate responsibility for the actions, so that risks can be ranked onformal management on a regular basis.
In addition, companys risk management framework.
risk registers and actions suitably prioritised.
acompany-wide risk committee reviews in Given that some risks are external andnot detail and monitors those risk mitigation plans, This section highlights some of the key risks fully within our control, the risk management ensuring that plans work across the group and uncertainties which affect Greene King, processes are designed to manage risks which aswell as the sharing of best practice.
but it is not intended to be an exhaustive may have a material impact on our business, analysis of all risks facing the business.
rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
STrATegIC rISkS Specific risk areas Potential impact Mitigation Monitoring assurance To achieve our Retail expansion A failure to find and secure the We maintain a pipeline of sites Regular updates are provided plans we need to be able to acquisition and development where available for purchase and a team tomanagement as to the status acquire existing pubs, smaller appropriate of top quality sites ofacquisition managers responsible ofpotential acquisitions and of pub businesses and brownor could reduce our rate of growth for securing new sites on an ongoing development progress for new green-field sites on which to inthe future.
Our in-house property build sites or major conversions of build new pubs.
development team is employed acquired pubs.
Monthly estate plan tohelp deliver new-build projects meetings are held to discuss progress.
The current economic situation It may be more difficult to dispose We have an ongoing programme There is regular assessment ofthe and fluctuations in the UK ofproperties at an appropriate ofinvestment in our sites, in the form long-term value of all ofour sites property market may make valuation, impacting our ability to of both expansionary and maintenance by the property department.
itmore difficult to reduce the reinvest those funds elsewhere or capital.
Under-performing sites receive size of our tenanted estate.
This may also lead us  focus through tocontinue operating pubs that are our Independence Pubdivision.
Our in long-term profit decline.
team of estate managers is tasked with achieving the sale of proposed disposal sites at the best possible prices.
We are investing significantly A failure to execute this strategy This year our investment in marketing The Brewing & Brands executive inour core ale brands to deliver correctly could result in lower and innovation is up 7.2% including team reviews and approves brand continued profitable growth orstagnant sales growth in those 4m invested in relaunching the investment proposals, monitors inour branded beer business.
1 cask ale, Greene King customer opinions and is tasked IPAis under way.
This has included with turning increased investment extending the Greene King IPA into increased sales.
family with new versions to broaden its appeal.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
greeneking eeneking.. co co. uk.
uk 27 27 eCONOMIC AND MArkeT rISkS Specific risk areas Potential impact Mitigation Monitoring assurance We are dependent on theextent A prolonged recession or delay in Our diversified business model The executive teams and the to which our customers choose to economic recovery, or significant enables us to provide a wide range boardreceive regular updates on spend their discretionary spend competitor activity, could lead ofoffers targeted at different consumer performance.
Competitor activity in our pubs and restaurants or toapotential reduction in our groups.
Our emphasis on value, service ismonitored at both a strategic buying our beers, and are thus revenue and lower growth rates.
and quality is designed to ensure that andtactical level to enable impacted by the wider economic we continue to appeal toconsumers.
suitableactions to be developed situation within the UK and by We have a broad geographic spread inresponse.
All business units competitor activity.
ofpubs with a focus towards the keepand update profit protection moreaffluent areas of London plansin case of any downturn andthe South-East.
Inflationary trends increase Higher costs could impact margins We have contracts in place with All costs, including labour, thecosts of our key products, and lead to reduced profitability.
major suppliers designed toprotect areclosely monitored by the including food, drink and site us against significant increases in executive teams to ensure that services including utilities.
major cost items andagainst price theyremain inline with budget.
We continually evolve thecomposition of menus and retailprices to optimise value to the customer andprofits for the company.
The challenging economic There is the risk of more tenant Operational and financial support Our Pub Partners division constantly situation impacts our tenanted defaults and business failures, isprovided to licensees where monitors the vital signs of our and leased licenseestoo.
potentially reducing revenue and necessary and appropriate.
Business licensee health, including debt levels increasing costs in the form of tenant Development Managers are trained and the numbers of tenancies at will.
to help grow and diversify our licensees' businesses.
There is ongoing agreement innovation toensure that more of our tenants areable to run profitable businesses.
FINANCIAl rISkS Potential impact Mitigation Monitoring assurance Specific risk areas Breaching our financial covenants Our long-term strategy and yearly Our financing structure requires We regularly monitor our would have a significant impact business plans are formulated to us to be able to repay capital performance against our financial onour ability to pay dividends ensure that financial covenants can borrowed and interest on covenants, including stress-testing.
orreinvest cash back into the be met.
Our securitised vehicle had timeand to ensure that Working capital iscarefully business.
It could also impact afree cash flow debt service cover weoperate within certain forecast, regularly reviewed by the ourreputation and ongoing ratio at the year end of 1.5x, giving financial covenants.
finance teams and closely managed.
Under ourbank facility we had 94% headroom on thekey net debt EBITDA covenant.
We are reliant on maintaining Inadequate internal control systems Our systems of internal control, Regular management accounts robust systems of internal increase the risk of fraud being moredetails of which appear on areproduced for each area and control to deal accurately perpetrated against us.
Non-compliance page40, include robust controls, reviewed in detail, to enable withthe large numbers of with statutory obligations or a material appropriately qualified staff, irregularities to be exposed.
transactions undertaken by misstatement in the reported results segregation of duties and authority Thereis a detailed external thebusiness and to ensure ofthe company could damage levels for expenditure and payments.
Appropriate adviceis taken to ensure obligations particularly relevant statutory compliance.
We operate three defined benefit The difference in value between All the schemes are closed There is regular monitoring of the pension schemes which must theschemes' assets and liabilities tonewmembers and we have schemes' investments and dialogue befunded to meet the required may vary, resulting in an increased beenconsulting with members with the trustees on an ongoing basis benefit payments.
The value deficit being recognised on our regarding closure of the schemes regarding funding requirements.
andfunding of the schemes are balance sheet.
The volatility of this tofuture accrual, toreduce volatility.
subject to the risk of changes deficit makes longer-term planning inlife expectancy, actual and more difficult.
expected price inflation, changes in investment yields and future salary increases.
Business review 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
indd 27 25 07 2012 10:55:29 28 28 Business review rISkS AND uNCerTAINTIeS CONTINueD regulATOry rISkS Specific risk areas Potential impact Mitigation Monitoring assurance Increasing public focus on issues Additional taxation or further We engage actively with government The regulatory landscape is such as binge drinking, underage changes to laws on the sale of alcohol to ensure that it appreciates that the monitored on our behalf by public drinking and the health impacts could lead to both reduced revenue safest and most responsible place to affairs advisers, so we remain aware of drinking alcohol mean that and increased costs across the group.
consume alcohol is in a well-managed of any potential changes which may there is the risk of further licensed on-trade premises.
legislative changes in these areas, including additional taxation.
We are required to comply with A major incident which causes We have a comprehensive range We have a centrally managed awide range of health andsafety serious illness, injury or even offormally documented policies system of compliance tracking legislation, including in the areas lossoflife to one of our customers, andprocedures in place to ensure KPIs, which is validated by both of food safety andfire safety, employees or tenants could have compliance with current legislation internal and independent external across all partsof our business.
asignificant impact on our reputation.
and approved guidance in this area, audits carried out at all Retail sites as well as our own high standards.
to measure performance against We have entered into aprimary certain strict health and safety authority partnership with Reading standards including food safety Borough Council tovalidate our health andfire safety.
Operational and safety policies and they have rated managers are regularly briefed on our safety management systems as performance and remedial actions very good.
A new programme in Pub are tracked from the centre.
Partners is designed to improve safety levels for new tenants.
Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity is maintained and that all food and drink products are fully traceable.
OperATIONAl AND peOple rISkS Monitoring assurance Specific risk areas Potential impact Mitigation Given that we have some well Customers may stop visiting We maintain tight controls toprotect Mystery guest scores are regularly known national brands it is oursitesor visit less frequently, and enhance our reputation and measured and reviewed by the vitalto avoid poor service leadingto a loss of revenue brand values, alongside staff training, relevant executive teams in our standards or non-compliance andreputational damage.
Incident escalation and management systems are also in place.
We are reliant on information A lengthy failure of any such Our networks are protected by The IT department constantly systems and technology for systemscould impact our firewalls and anti-virus protection monitor threats to data protection many aspects of our business.
abilitytodo business and systems and back-up procedures are by viruses, hacking and breach .
The business plan is in place for critical business continuity plan isalso regularly processes.
Wehave access to an reviewed andtested.
off-site disaster recovery facility inthe event of a major issue with ourhead office or our systems.
We are reliant on a number of Interruption of supply or key Our key suppliers are expected to The financial stability of key key suppliers and third party supplier or distributor failure maintain disaster recovery plans.
suppliers that we regard as most at distributors to supply our couldover the longer term reduce Wealso maintain back-up plans risk is monitored with the help of pubsand restaurants.
our revenue or lead to increased inthe event of the failure by or external advisers.
Disaster recovery costsifalternative arrangements lossofakey supplier.
plans of suppliers are reviewed arerequired.
regularly and our own supply chainalternative plans tested.
An event may occur preventing Supply disruption could impact Detailed risk management and The risk mitigation plans are us from producing, packaging customer satisfaction and, in the mitigation plans exist in our internal reviewed and tested regularly by and distributing our own beers.
longer term, lead to reduced production and distribution activities.
We are reliant on the quality A failure to attract, develop, retain We aim to recruit the best people Our annual employee engagement ofour employees and and motivate the best employees at andoffer training and development survey is used toobtain direct ourlicensees.
all levels of the organisation and the programmes to ensure that we retain feedback from employees on a best tenants may mean that weare them.
Remuneration packages are range of issues.
Both staff and not able to execute our business benchmarked toensure that they licensee turnover is measured plans and strategy.
The range andreviewed by relevant oftenancy agreements, training management teams.
programmes and support available isdesigned to attract and retain thebest quality licensees.
