| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 26 Governance continued The Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee oversaw Relations with shareholders currently consists of four independent the appointment of Ian Durant as Chairman The Chairman ensures that there is Non-Executive Directors: Iain Ferguson elect, who will assume the role after the effective communication with individual Chairman, Julie Baddeley, Ian Durant AGM on 15 May 2013.
As a consequence, and institutional shareholders through and Allison Kirkby.
The Committees main the Committee conducted a search for a the announcement of regular trading duties which it discharged during the replacement independent Non-Executive updates, as well as general presentations year are set out within the Directors Director, ultimately to replace Ian as Chair after announcement of the interim and Remuneration Report which is set out of the Audit Committee, and the Board preliminary results and the posting on pages 37 to 51 of this Annual Report.
appointed Allison Kirkby as an independent of results on the Companys website.
The Committee is also responsible for the Non-Executive Director on 30 January 2013.
The Board receives reports on any operation of the Companys share option Allison will assume the Chair of the comments received from shareholders schemes and for monitoring the framework Audit Committee following the AGM following these presentations.
for, broad policy in respect of, and levels on 15 May 2013. of remuneration of the Companys senior The Chief Executive and the Finance management.
A separate Executive More recently, and following the Director carry out extensive engagement Director committee, after discussion resignation by Ken McMeikan as Chief with institutional shareholders and market with the Chairman, sets the fees for the Executive, the Committee conducted analysts, either meeting them as part of Non-Executive Directors so as to ensure a process which saw Roger Whiteside company presentations and briefings, that no Director is involved in setting his appointed by the Board as Chief Executive individual meetings, or on telephone calls.
Throughout its In addition, the Company Secretary and activities, the Committee was supported the Companys Brokers draw the attention The Nominations Committee currently by the Zygos Partnership.
of the Board to all relevant shareholder comprises Derek Netherton Chairman, communications.
The Board also reviews and all of the Non-Executive Directors.
Following appointment, new Directors are briefings and comments by analysts in The Committees main functions which it subject to an in-depth tailored induction order to maintain an understanding of discharged during the year are to review process.
In the case of Non-Executive market perceptions of the Company.
the balance and constitution of the Board: Directors, this includes meeting with to advise the Board as to whether Directors members of the Operating Board, visiting The AGM is well attended, with the should be nominated for re-election by bakeries, shops and offices, and being Chairmen of the Board and its Committees the members: and to approve and manage provided with an extensive Board available to answer any issues raised the process for setting the specification Handbook which contains key information and any newly appointed directors being for all Board appointments, identifying and policies that are relevant to the available to meet shareholders.
At the candidates who meet that specification position.
In the induction process tailored AGM, the balance of proxy votes cast and making recommendations to the for Allison Kirkby, this included meeting for and against each resolution and Board on the basis of merit and with the external auditor, as well as other the number of abstentions is displayed.
compliance with objective criteria in senior members of KPMG Audit Plc who All substantial issues, including the respect of all new Board appointments.
are not otherwise engaged on the audit receipt of the annual report and work for the Company.
For new Executive accounts, are proposed at the AGM In recruiting additional Directors the Directors, and Non-Executive Directors for as separate resolutions.
Nominations Committee defines the role whom the appointment is their first to a and uses external consultants to assist in UK listed company, the induction includes The Senior Independent Director is identifying suitable candidates from which details of the legal duties and obligations available to shareholders if they have the Committee selects a short list and of being a Director.
concerns which they have not been able conducts interviews.
The final candidate is to resolve through the normal channels of then subject to formal recommendation by Risk management the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance the Committee and approval by the Board.
Details of the Companys principal risks Director, or for circumstances where such and the management of these are given contact would not be appropriate.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
