40 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that could The Corporate Governance report on pages 74 to 81 describes the impact the achievement of the Groups strategy.
systems and internal control processes through which the Directors identify, assess, manage and mitigate risks.
These risks are accepted as being a part of doing business and the Board recognises that the nature and scope of these risks can change We help and inspire and so regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
our customers with their life on the move Strategic Pillars Enablers Portfolio Web Operations Marketing People Values Key Risks and Uncertainties Senior Management colleagues assess risks on a  basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
The likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of our corporate strategies.
Mitigation Responsibility for taking the necessary actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the business, with Executive manager sponsor involvement.
The Risk Register is monitored and updated with current and ongoing mitigation on a regular basis.
Report and Review The Executive Committee and the Board consider the risks reported within the Risk Register and review and monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the status of risk mirrors the levels of risk that the Board is willing to take in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 41 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Economic The economy is a major influence on consumer spending.
The Group mitigates these risks by focusing on Trends in employment, inflation, taxation, consumer debt maintaining the defensive characteristics of its needs levels and interest rates impact consumer expenditure in driven product groups and by ensuring that its stores Portfolio discretionary areas.
Changes in Government policies may and centres are the key destination for its core Operations also affect our consumers ability to benefit from our products and services.
We also ensure that we have Marketing products and services.
representation with Governmental decision-makers in the areas supporting our core categories.
Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy is to deliver longThe budgetary and planning process aims to deliver term value to our shareholders.
The Board understands the Groups growth targets and business plans are that if the strategy and vision are inappropriately developed to ensure these targets are achieved and Portfolio formulated and communicated and that the necessary that they are resourced appropriately.
Regular access Operations resources are not put in place then the business will suffer.
to industry experts and monitoring of performance Marketing against plan is carried out by both the Executive People managers of the Company and the Board to ensure Web targets are being achieved and that they remain relevant to and focused on the Group Strategy.
Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and dynamic.
The The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers, Group competes with a wide variety of retailers of varying both in-store and online, and from the national sizes and faces competition from UK retailers, in both car-servicing network and seeks to continually Marketing stores and online, as well as international operators.
The strengthen its own-brand and sub-brand retail offer Web Car Servicing market is a service-based market with a and develop opportunities to differentiate the Halfords number of different-sized providers where Trust is offer and deliver an honest and trustworthy service.
Failure to compete with competitors on areas including price, product range, quality, service and trustworthiness could have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
Compliance The Group operates in an environment governed by The Group has a Quality Assurance and a Commercial legislation, standards and codes in areas including, but Regulatory team that manage legal and regulatory not limited to, trading, advertising, product quality, health control processes both in-house and externally to Operations and safety, hazardous substances and data protection.
advise and take action on existing and emerging risk management issues.
Our various Codes of Practice regulate our behaviour in our dealings with all stakeholders including customers, suppliers and colleagues and our attitudes toward such areas as the environment and ethical trading.
Changing Customer Preferences Some of the products that Halfords sells, particularly in Halfords has recruited experienced, knowledgeable the Car Enhancement category, are subject to rapidly colleagues who can identify and interpret trends and changing consumer preferences.
Products such as consequently respond in a timely manner to changes in Portfolio childrens cycles face competition from alternative consumer preferences.
Colleagues also monitor Marketing products such as games consoles and some of the developments in alternative products and our forecasts Web products that the Group sells are non-discretionary in reflect the latest assumption in these areas.
We are their nature and predicting future trends is difficult.
continually looking at ways of moving into new merchandising opportunities to mitigate technology changes and to improve forecasting and planning to ensure we meet our customers changing needs.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 42 Business Review Risks and Uncertainties continued Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Reputation The Halfords name is a key asset of the business and as Ultimately the protection of Halfords brand and the largest operator in its markets, expectations of the position in its core markets will be sustained by unique Group are high.
Failure to protect the Groups reputation and extensive product offerings and a multi-channel Operations and brand could lead to a loss of trust and confidence.
approach to sales in our stores and a  This could result in a decline in the customer base and based customer proposition in our stores and People affect the ability to recruit and retain good people.
This is complemented by quality training from accredited Automotive Technician training to Cytech Cycles, RoSPA, and the Institute of Mechanical Industries training, ensuring that colleagues at both stores and centres are capable of supporting the Halfords brand.
Reliance on Foreign Manufacturers Halfords sources a significant proportion of the Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics merchandise it sells in its stores from outside of the UK, before the Group procures products from any new either directly or via third-party suppliers.
The Groups strong management Operations the Group is subject to the risks associated with team in the Far East has been recruited locally and international trade particularly those which are common in understands the local culture, market regulations and the import of goods from developing countries including, risks and we maintain very close relationships with but not limited to, inflation, currency fluctuation, the both our suppliers and shippers to ensure that imposition of taxes or other charges on imports, the disruption to production and supply are managed exposure to different legal standards, the burden of appropriately.
complying with a variety of foreign laws and changing foreign government policies and natural disasters.
Product and Service Quality The Board recognises that the quality and safety of both The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as our products and services in our stores and autocentres the store or centre of first choice in each of the is of critical importance to us and that any major failure markets that it serves.
Halfords continues to invest in Operations will affect consumer confidence.
We recognise that if our both its existing estate to ensure that it remains Marketing products are seen to be or perceived to be of poor contemporary and in constant product innovation to People standard or of poor value for money then customers will meet customer needs.
In addition, the Groups market look to obtain these from our competitors.
There is also leading in-store wefit proposition provides a range of the risk that our service proposition fails due to services at a lower cost to our customers than that inconsistent levels of service at individual stores and provided by competitors.
Our Autocentre business individual centres.
continually seeks to provide innovate solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
We also have an established training infrastructure to ensure that our colleagues receive ongoing product and service training.
In our centres the training of our technicians to provide high quality motor vehicle repairs is enhanced through an apprenticeship programme and accredited Automotive Technician training.
Sixty per cent of our centres workshop colleagues hold a Motor Industry qualification.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 43 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Key Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Strategy Information Technology IT Systems and Infrastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords is dependent Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity on the reliability and suitability of a number of important IT of our systems and to ensure that systems changes systems where any sustained performance problems, are implemented in a controlled manner.
Halfords key Operations particularly with regard to stores, centres or warehouse, trading systems are hosted within a secure data centre Marketing multi-channel and distribution systems, could potentially operated by a specialist company remote from our People compromise our operational capability for a period of time.
These systems are also supported by a Web With ambitious growth plans for our multi-channel offer, number of disaster recovery arrangements including a our trading capacity could be affected by internal and comprehensive backup strategy, and a hotlink secure external systems resilience and interdependencies.
data centre hosted outside the UK, with an additional access to a further data support centre elsewhere in the UK in case of a major incident.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business depends upon its Our Remuneration Policy outlined on page 82 details the senior management closely supervising all aspects of its strategies in place to ensure that high calibre Executives business, in particular, the operation of the stores and are attracted and retained.
The Group looks to improve People autocentres, including the appropriate training of in-store its senior manager cadre through operating a talent and centre colleagues, and the design, procurement and management process to help individuals achieve their allocation of merchandise.
Retention of senior full potential within Halfords and to ensure that management is especially important in the Group due to appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the the limited availability of experienced and talented retail future needs of the business.
At a junior level the Group executives.
continues to invest in graduate programmes and store centre colleague training and development.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
