Overview Business review Governance Financial statements rIsK manaGement anD Internal control Internal control The internal audit function has operated financial and trading warning signs The Board meets regularly throughout the independently since 2004, reporting are reported to Group and divisional year and has adopted a schedule of matters to the Audit Committee.
Weekly data on cash which are required to be brought to it for dedicated Internal Audit manager was management and sales orders are also decision.
This procedure is intended to added to support the function and during reported direct to the Chief Executive, ensure that the Directors maintain full and 2010 11 an internal auditor based in China the Finance Director and the Group effective control over all significant strategic, was recruited.
Each year we implement finance team.
This framework is designed financial and organisational issues.
further improvements to our Internal Audit to provide an early warning of potential procedures to enhance effectiveness.
risks and to direct appropriate action During the year, actions to strengthen where necessary: The processes which the Board has the control environment continue to be applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Chief Executive submits a report to taken centrally by Group management, the Groups system of internal control are each Halma plc Board meeting which particularly in the area of health and summarised below: includes financial information, the main safety and bribery and corruption.
The features of Group operations and an duties and responsibilities of subsidiary operating companies carry out a detailed analysis of the significant risks and management are continually refreshed as risk assessment each year and identify opportunities facing the Group.
The report well as documented in a manual circulated mitigating actions in place or proposed also covers progress against strategic to all subsidiary managing directors.
A risk register is objectives and shareholder related issues: comprehensive induction programme for compiled from this information, against subsidiary finance directors was launched which action is monitored through to regular Director visits to Group in the year.
We also strengthened the resolution.
Group management also companies are scheduled and open resources dedicated to identifying and compiles a summary of significant Group access to the subsidiary company investigating potential acquisitions and the risks, documenting existing or planned boards is encouraged: policies to ensure a rapid and successful actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks: integration following acquisition.
The scope cyclical and risk-based internal control of the Groups policies and the programme each month the board of every operating visits are carried out by internal audit or of compliance audits are regularly reviewed company meets, discusses and reports senior finance staff resulting in actions to ensure they are sufficient to address on its operating performance, its being fed back to each company and current risks.
The Group placed additional opportunities, the risks facing it and the followed up by Divisional Finance Directors emphasis on updating our business resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional and Divisional Chief Executives.
Reviews continuity plans over the past year.
Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews is given to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff During the year, actions to further also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of strengthen the control environment half-year and year-end figures.
We have a Groupwide IT policy supported by a continued, particularly in the area of programme of IT audits: and the Chief Executive, Finance Director health & safety and bribery & corruption.
and Internal Audit report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of internal control.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
The Groups treasury and hedging policy Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly was also updated to ensure that appropriate with the Chief Executive and Finance accounting and banking arrangements Director and report on divisional progress were in line with the Groups growth and to the Executive Board: to ensure continued compliance with accounting requirements.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 rIsK manaGement anD Internal control contInueD Group risk management Board operational compliance chief executive audit committee executive Board company secretary Divisional finance Directors Internal audit whistle blowing Group risk is mitigated by means of an a comprehensive financial reporting a robust structure for electronic operating structure which spreads the system, recently enhanced, within which communication and conducting Groups activities across a number of actual and forecast results are compared e-commerce to ensure that the Group autonomous subsidiary companies.
with approved budgets and the previous is not negatively impacted by threats to Each of these companies is led by a years figures on a monthly basis.
Weekly its information technology infrastructure high-quality board of directors including cash sales orders reporting including and to minimise potential for business a finance executive.
details of financial institutions are also disruptions.
The Group has a wide range maintained within the financial reporting of measures, policies and framework Group companies operate under a system, all of which is reviewed at both in place which includes a virtual system of controls which includes but local and Group level: private network covering over 80 sites is not limited to: worldwide, secure firewalls, information an investment evaluation procedure to management audits, disaster recovery a defined organisational structure with ensure an appropriate level of approval and a mobile devices management an appropriate delegation of authority to for all capital expenditure and other system: and operational management which ensures capitalised costs: appropriate segregation of key duties: an acquisitions and disposals framework self-certification by operating company which governs the due diligence and the identification and appraisal of management of compliance and negotiation and approval processes risks both formally, through the annual control issues: to ensure that value enhancing, quality process of preparing business plans and investments are made in order to meet budgets, through an annual detailed risk our strategic objectives.
assessment carried out at local level and informally through close monitoring of operations: 60 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements PrIncIPal rIsKs anD uncertaIntIes risk description Potential impact mitigation change operational risk Reduced financial Our key means of risk control is the choice of the markets in We seek to continuously grow performance which we operate and the people and methods we use to our profits, generating and exploit those market opportunities.
Our choice is to operate Inability to deliver sustaining a high return for in the safety and health-related technology markets which growth strategy shareholders within a clear we consider to be robust over the long term.
We view are predominantly critical components or instruments which Unexpected variation risk within the context of this are warranted as fit for the purpose rather than systems in Group results objective as well as in absolute or intangible products where satisfactory performance is terms.
In any business the contingent upon third parties.
Our quality systems and inherent risks that are an integral close management mitigate the risk of product failure recall component of business activities and the risk of an accident or fatality.
We invest heavily in must be identified, managed identifying, recruiting and training talented people who are and mitigated.
We perceive able to manage the risks we face while delivering the excellent our primary operational risks to results we require.
We always seek to spread our risks.
We emanate from remoteness of have processes in place to ensure any major transactions are operations and the actions and reviewed at the appropriate level.
organic Growth, customer Loss of market share Our focus on investing in management development, and supplier risk and innovation and international growth is a direct result of Disruption of service to competition assessing these risks.
We do not place undue reliance on customers The Group faces competition any one Group company nor does the Group rely heavily on in the form of pricing, service, one customer, supplier or transaction.
We address customer Reduced financial reliability and substitution.
concentration at Company level through active diversification performance Individual operating companies of the customer base.
No customer represents more than are at some risk of over-reliance 2% of Group revenue.
We aim to manage the risk of timing on larger customers.
We rely and quality of component supply by dual sourcing and longon high quality service from our standing working relationships.
By empowering and resourcing supply partners.
These constitute local operations to respond to changing market needs, the an ongoing potential threat to potential adverse impact of downward price pressure and our growth.
competition can be mitigated and growth maintained.
We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, we are better placed to make fast progress ourselves.
research and Development Reduced financial By devolving control of product development into the New products are critical to our performance autonomous operating businesses, we spread the risk and organic growth and underpin our ensure that the resource is as close to the customer as Loss of market share ability to earn high margins and possible.
New product development best practice is shared high returns over the long term.
between Group companies and return on investment of past Failure to obtain and future innovation projects is tracked monthly.
Large R&D adequate return on projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head investment Office approval.
Intangible resources Loss of market share The main intangible resources which deliver competitive Our businesses build competitive advantage and which support our strategic objectives are: advantage and strengthen the patents and trademarks which protect our products: barriers to entry in many ways our employees, whose understanding of our technology, including patents, product customers needs and the dynamics of the markets we approvals, technical innovation, operate in, enable us to maintain leadership in many markets: product quality, customer and the enviable reputation enjoyed by our brands for superior service levels and branding.
product quality and market leading customer support.
Whilst We look for these qualities in the no single product or process is critical to the Group as a whole, businesses we seek to acquire.
all appropriate actions are taken to protect our intellectual Protection of our intellectual property rights.
With our development activity increasing in property is important to our emerging economies we will often segregate the elements of a continued success.
project to protect the know how.
The arrows indicate the direction of change in particular risks during the year.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
