22 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 prIncIpal rIsks Managing risk is integral to our business strategy and operations.
Expert knowledge of our markets, clients and candidates, as well as the diverse business environments in which we operate, position us to take appropriate measures to help safeguard the Group in an increasingly complex world.
rIsk managEmEnt actIons to mItIgatE cyclIcal naturE of our busInEss The Group has diversified its operations to include a balance of both temporary and permanent placement recruitment services to public and The performance of the Group is private-sector markets, and operates across 33 countries and 20 sector significantly impacted by changes to specialisms.
That said, as at 30 June 2012 Group profits are heavily concentrated in two countries, namely Australia and Germany.
the underlying economic situation, The Groups cost base is highly variable and is carefully managed to align particularly in the United Kingdom, with business activity.
The Group has ensured that net debt has been kept at an appropriate level.
The Group is highly cash generative, requiring low levels of asset investment.
Cash collection is a key priority and the Group has made appropriate investment in its credit control and working capital management processes.
busInEss modEl rIsk We have leveraged our broad geographical and sectoral footprint to win a significant number of multispecialism contracts with large corporate The Group faces a number of industry organisations.
This has strengthened significantly our relationship with risk factors in the competitive environment these clients, increasing our share of their recruitment spend and increasing our share of the markets in which we operate.
notably the gradual shift towards We monitor changes in the market in terms of industry trends including outsourced recruitment models with social media and insourcing, and continue to invest in our online presence associated margin pressures and to provide a high-quality customer experience.
the increasing use of social media.
talEnt We continue to ensure that overall remuneration packages are competitive.
This includes performance-related commissions to The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, incentivise staff.
train, develop and retain staff to deliver its Increased focus has been given to internal recruitment activities and growth plans.
training opportunities for example through e-learning.
Our leadership development programmes are in place and developing the potential of future leaders.
Annual succession plans are undertaken across all regions to identify key roles and successor options.
We maintain medium to long-term management incentive schemes for our top 360 employees to foster commitment to the continued growth of the Group.
23 directors report business review rIsk managEmEnt actIons to mItIgatE complIancE rIsk All new employees receive training in respect of the relevant operating standards that are applicable to their particular recruitment role.
The Certain checks are required before we Compliance function is also available to provide support and guidance place candidates into their roles.
certain roles and industries those checks Our higher-risk specialisms such as Education and Healthcare have supplementary processes and controls in place to ensure that are more specific as set out by legislation.
operational standards are complied with.
Failure to complete, maintain or refresh In territories where legislation sets out additional requirements those checks could lead to legal, financial compliance specialists are employed, for example in occupational health and reputational consequences.
Dedicated compliance auditors conduct spot checks on candidate records, to ensure that the appropriate vetting checks and due diligence are carried out in line with legal and contractual requirements.
rElIancE on tEchnology Technology systems are housed in various data centres and the Group has capacity to cope with a data centres loss through the establishment The Group continues to develop and of disaster recovery sites that are physically based in separate locations integrate new systems to improve to the ongoing operations.
Business activities are Data protection remains a key priority.
Specific contractual provisions exist with regard to our data centres to ensure we have sufficient increasingly reliant on system performance handling and storage procedures around confidential data.
and integrity Hays and its clients The Company has in place data protection and security policies and, systems to deliver service to clients and where data protection legislation allows, email monitoring programmes workers.
A large amount of confidential are undertaken to highlight potential areas of concern, which are then investigated.
data is held in these systems.
contract rIsk During contract negotiations management seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the nature of risks and their potential impact is understood.
Group companies enter into contractual Our legal team has the depth of knowledge and experience to enable arrangements with clients, some of which them to advise management on the level of risk presented in contracts.
can be onerous in terms of required Reviews are performed on a risk basis across key contracts, to identify activities.
and agree improvements to the way in which we deliver services to clients.
The Group Finance Director reviews and approves all contracts with non-standard terms.
forEIgn ExchangE Profits from Australia and Euro-based markets are a material proportion of the Groups profitability.
There is no active management of translation The Group has significant operations foreign exchange risk, however, we continue to monitor our policies in outside the UK and is therefore exposed this area.
to foreign exchange translation risk.
EurozonE As part of its discussions, the Board has considered the impact on global trading and business prospects, country risk collapse, debt The Group has a number of operations default and funding pressure, bank counterparty risk, trade debtor in the Eurozone and would be exposed recoverability, the impact on Group funding, the carrying values of financial and non-financial assets, foreign exchange exposure and should one or more countries exit the Euro.
interest rate risk, and ways to mitigate against each of these risks as far as practicable.
Overall, save for the material impact that a disorderly fragmentation of the Eurozone would likely have on business and candidate confidence, the Eurozone risks identified by the Board relating totheexit of one or more countries from the Euro are considered tobemanageable.
