HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 22 RISK MANAGEMENT The Company faces many risks, certain of which are detailed in the Annual Review on pages 32 to 34.
Detailed below are certain risks that are specically related to CSR.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Environment and sustainability Threats to licence to operate, financial The Group conducts EIAs before commencing any major penalties and reputational harm as a activity, has systems in place to ensure that sites are properly result of environmental damage.
Similar restored and aims to minimise any negative impacts of consequences can result from a failure to activities during project life cycles.
return sites to their natural state.
Employees Difficulties in attracting and retaining Heritage offers competitive remuneration packages, including the best employees can potentially cause performance-related pay, professional training, promotes short and medium-term disruption to equal opportunities and provides a positive working the business.
Community and human rights Threats to licence to operate, day-toHeritage employs a high percentage of local personnel from day operational difficulties, financial regions of operation.
The Company also consults local penalties and reputational harm which communities and stakeholders throughout all stages of can affect the long-term objectives of the operations to ensure mutually beneficial outcomes.
Health and safety A major event can impact employees, The Company provides health and safety training at all levels contractors and local communities of operations, and continually monitors performance and leading to a potential loss of reputation risks.
The Company aims to maintain international health and or revenue.
and safety management systems of the highest standard.
Business conduct Short and medium-term disruption to The Company develops close, positive and transparent working the business and reputational harm.
relationships with host governments and business partners.
Business conduct policies and procedures established by the Company are robust and systems are continually reviewed.
Improper business behaviour is prohibited.
Corporate governance Failure to comply with corporate Heritage recognises the importance of maintaining strong governance codes and practices could corporate governance procedures and processes.
The Group result in adverse sentiment towards the continues to develop systems in this area and generally this Company.
is managed by employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers.
The Board reviews compliance with the Code and other regulatory guidelines regularly.
More information on corporate governance is provided in the separate Corporate Governance Report.
