HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 32 RISKS As a global business with activities focused on the exploration, Heritages business, financial standing and developmentand production of hydrocarbons, Heritage has to face a reputation may be impacted by various risks, variety of risks and the management of these risks is an essential element of how the business is run.
Accordingly, it is a Board level not all of which are within its control.
The effective management of risk is essential for the Group identies and monitors the key risks Group to deliver its key strategic and operational objectives whilst also maintaining an excellent health and safety record.
The Groups overall and uncertainties affecting the Group and strategy of risk management is to employ suitably skilled personnel, runs the business in a way that minimises implement appropriate policies and procedures and maintain a diversied portfolio of assets.
Heritage continuously identies potential risks that could affect the Group and the achievement of its business plans and strategic objectives.
The identication, together with the mitigation of risks to an acceptable level, is of critical importance to the Group as it continues to grow and generate long-term shareholder value.
Key risks are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Directors and senior management with regular reports received on all aspects of the Groups performance.
The Executive Directors, with whom the authority remains, report to the Audit Committee on matters concerning risk.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT EXPLORATION RISK LOSS OF KEY FISCAL EMPLOYEES CHANGES POLITICAL COUNTRY SPECIFIC RISKS NEW ACQUISITIONS COMMODITY FUTURE PRICES FUNDING TITLE DISPUTES MALTA UNFULFILLED PSA FOREX OBLIGATIONS EXPOSURE PRIMARY RISK OTHER POTENTIAL RISKS LIKELIHOOD OF OCCURENCE MAGNITUDE OF IMPACT Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 33 A summary of the Groups key ongoing risks, as currently identied, together with the measures taken tomitigate against these, is provided below.
Primary risks faced by Heritage during 2012 and recently arehighlighted.
DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Incorrect portfolio mix Company could become reliant on The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of assets across a range of certain local geographical, political geographies and life cycles in order to minimise exposure.
In 2012 and cyclical market risks which may Heritage increased its exposure to producing assets.
Acquisitions and disposals Effective portfolio management The Group and its advisers have considerable experience in is key to achieving long-term the business environment in which the Group operates.
experience is applied regularly and carefully to assess potential merger, acquisition and disposal opportunities.
In 2012 Heritage acquired a major interest OML 30, Nigeria, through Shoreline and disposed of its interest in Kurdistan.
The current management team has raised over $2 billion in cash through disposals.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Exploration and development The failure to sustain exploration The Group has experienced management and technical teams with expenditure and success rates success can potentially impact a track record of nding major hydrocarbon discoveries and has a investor confidence on generating diversied portfolio of exploration, appraisal, development and long-term value.
Technical team has development and production experience.
Considerable technical work is undertaken to reduce related areas of risk and maximise opportunities.
Factors associated with operating Potential loss of licences or inability The Group maintains close contact with governments in the areas in developing countries, political to operate which may impact on where it operates and, where appropriate, invests in community and regulatory instability achieving long-term objectives.
Considerable work is undertaken before commencing operations in any new territory.
Fiscal changes Adverse changes could impact on The Group continually reviews scal regimes and enters into future revenue streams for the robust, transparent PSAs or licences.
Group impacting on medium and long-term value.
unfulfilled PSA obligations Failure to full PSA obligations The Group continually monitors compliance with licence could lead to the loss of a licence.
obligations and maintains good working relations with governments and joint venture partners.
Title disputes Potential loss of licences or inability Notwithstanding potential challenges in Malta, the Group believes to operate which may impact on it has good title to its oil and gas properties.
However, the Group achieving long-term objectives.
cannot control or protect itself completely against the risk of title disputes or challenges and there can be no assurance that claims or challenges by third parties against the Groups properties will not be asserted at a future date.
Naturally, the Group strives to employ the best internal and advisory knowledge available to help to minimise this risk associated with its activities.
Loss of key employees The loss of key staff can potentially Remuneration packages are reviewed regularly to ensure key cause short and medium-term executives and senior management are properly remunerated.
Long-term incentive programmes have been established.
Employees are encouraged to develop their potential and, where appropriate, to further their careers within the Group.
This is one of the Groups KPIs and staff turnover continues to remain at very low levels.
Environmental issues An environmental incident could The Group undertakes operations to the highest international lead to a loss of reputation and or environmental standards of the oil industry.
EIAs are prepared before revenue.
any major capital expenditure is incurred.
Heritage did not incur any significant environmental issues in2012.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 34 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Health and safety A major event can impact The Group has devised a comprehensive policy framework as well employees, contractors and local as health and safety management and reporting systems.
These communities leading to a potential are monitored and reviewed by our CSR Committee and senior loss of reputation and or revenue.
The Group also works closely with local authorities where it operates to manage this aspect of our activities.
This is a KPI for the Company and Heritage continued to operate with no fatalities or LTIs in 2012.
FINANCIAL RISKS Oil and gas sales volumes and Commodity prices impact on the Whilst not under the direct control of the Company, a large prices Companys revenue stream and can movement in commodity prices could have a material impact on affect investor sentiment.
The Group did not hedge oil prices in 2012.
Foreign exchange exposure Could adversely impact the Generally, it is the Groups policy to conduct and manage its Companys results.
business in US dollars, its reporting currency.
Cash balances in Group subsidiaries are primarily held in US dollars, but small amounts may be held in other currencies in order to meet immediate operating or administrative expenses or to comply with local currency regulations.
Liquidity risk In the extreme this could impact A formal budgeting and forecasting process is in place and cash the Groups ability to continue as a forecasts identifying liquidity requirements of the Group are reviewed going concern.
regularly to ensure compliance with approved funding plans.
Future funding Renancing of the$550 million Discussions with the existing syndicate of bankers are ongoing bridge facility, which expires no later and the Company is not aware of any reasons why the longthan 29 December 2013, into a longterm nancing will not be received.
Furthermore, Heritage has term loan doesnt take place.
a variety of different sources of finance available to it, including approaching other financial institutions, obtaining new credit facilities, reinvesting its funds from operations, farm-outs and, when considered appropriate, issuing additional equity.
OTHER RISKS Legal, regulatory and litigation Changes could affect the short, The Groups activities are subject to various laws and regulations medium and long-term value of the around the world.
Risks are mitigated by employing skilled and Group.
experienced staff and advisers to conduct proactive assessment, contingency planning and, where necessary, the use of appropriate mitigation techniques.
Investor expectations A failure to meet shareholder The Company maintains a regular dialogue with the Groups expectations can lead to a loss shareholder base and the general public.
A Senior Independent of shareholder confidence and Director has been appointed and the Company employs an investor reduction in the share price.
The Board is aware of reporting responsibilities and, where necessary, takes advice to ensure that material information is released on a timely basis.
It is the Companys policy not to comment on market rumours or press speculation.
Corporate governance and Failure to comply with corporate The Group recognises the importance of maintaining strong business conduct governance codes and practices corporate governance procedures and processes and continues could result in negative sentiment to develop systems in this area.
Generally this is managed by towards the Company.
employing the skill, expertise and resources of the Group and its advisers.
The Board reviews compliance with the Code and other regulatory guidelines regularly and enters into dialogue with major shareholders and institutions.
The Board continually makes changes to its procedures in order to ensure adherence to codes and practices.
More information is provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
