REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Principal risks and uncertainties We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance and our mitigating activities.
For further information on how we manage risk, see the business review and also page 36, within the corporate governance report.
Specific financial risks are detailed on page 29 within the Group financial review.
AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Trading environment As detailed in our chief executives statement, the economic volatility experienced in recent years is Impact on sales, margins, costs, profit and cash of: expected to continue into the year ahead.
Within the UK, consumers continue to adjust their spending Economic conditions patterns in response to fluctuations in their disposable income.
This economic environment, including C ost of raw material products, services the response of other retailers to it, widens the possible forecasted outcomes of the Groups performance and utilities in respect of sales, costs, profit and cash generation.
We intend to build on the considerable cost savings Consumer preferences achieved over the last three years, recognising that further sustainable cost reduction opportunities may Competitor activity be more challenging to achieve, which, coupled with a level of underlying cost inflation, may see an Seasonality and or weather increase in costs.
UK-centric store network Other mitigating activities include: Expansion and or development of store network Empowering customer choice by strengthening range architecture Price tracking versus our competition and dynamic pricing to ensure competitiveness is maintained Evaluating lease renewals c. 200 over next five years to optimise the Groups store portfolio Introduction of clothing ranges, including the exclusive Emma Bunton collection Business strategy At every Plc and Operating Board meeting, strategic issues are discussed in addition to the time that Inappropriate direction is dedicated to strategic reviews at various Executive meetings across the Group.
The Group maintains Poor investment decisions a clear vision to build successful businesses that bring unrivalled convenience and value to customers Failure to execute everyday lives, whether shopping at home or on the move.
The acquisition of Habitat brings a strong design heritage to the Groups portfolio.
Other mitigating activities include: Monthly review of performance against strategic targets Comprehensive strategic debates with non-executive directors and advisers Communication with stakeholders: investors, colleagues, suppliers, government etc.
Our colleagues The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Internal training Re liance on key personnel schemes and the graduate recruitment programme maintain the succession pool and actively encourage Availability of specialist skills promotion from within.
Additionally, in order to continue to improve our business and take advantage of Pension obligations opportunities, our existing capabilities are continually reviewed and strengthened if needed.
We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through listening groups and employee forums.
Other mitigating activities include: Competitive remuneration packages, with oversight by the Remuneration Committee Twice-yearly comprehensive succession planning sessions, up to Operating Board level Strategies for recruitment development of talent to deliver strategic priorities Regular review of pension trustee activities and plans to mitigate the fund deficit Suite of development programmes for high-potential colleagues at all levels of the organisation Operations Our leading multi-channel capabilities provide the foundation for growth, building on the immediacy for Failure to ensure appropriate processes are in place customers of a wide range of products, coupled with the convenience of in-store collection of on-line to manage the complexity of operations, including products through our easy to use reservation services, The marketplace creates a dynamic retail multi-channel and customer service environment that requires the Group to evolve continually its media and promotional strategies.
Product availability remains a key priority as the Group mitigates complex supply chain risks through robust processes that ensure stock is in the right place at the right time to meet customer needs.
Other mitigating activities include: Continuously improving the efficiency and effectiveness of presenting the Argos catalogue to our customers Re-structure of the Argos e-commerce teams to drive further innovation and capabilities Maintaining and extending Homebases award-winning installation services for kitchens, bathrooms and bedroom furniture Targeted investment in customer service, through refits and colleague training 30 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION AREA OF PRINCIPAL RISK AND UNCERTAINTY DESCRIPTION AND EXAMPLES OF MITIGATING ACTIVITY Our customers Our team of customer insight professionals ensure that we listen and respond to our customers to Failing to meet expectations enhance continually the shopping experience.
The award-winning Create Your Own Look in Homebase Consumer preferences is a great example of innovation which inspires customers.
Changing demographics Mitigating actions include: Engaging with all customer demographics through social media developments Extended use of technology and innovations to give customers choice in how they shop with us Improving customer experience through Argos re-brand activity Understanding customer engagement and building on loyalty to our brands Continuous review of key customer metrics such as mystery shopping and exit interviews Sourcing Overseas sourcing capabilities continue to be leveraged to benefit customers in these difficult economic Strength of supplier relationships times, further extending the popular Value ranges in both Argos and Homebase.
As with other retailers, P urchase of products whose cost base of this exposes the Group to fluctuations in freight costs.
The volatility of the global economy continues to manufacture is in currencies other than sterling, create a risk of exposure to fluctuations in currency rates as over a third of the products ranged by Argos principally the US dollar and Homebase are imported, with the majority sourced from Asia in US dollars.
S ale of products in currencies other than Mitigating actions include: sterling, principally the euro in the Republic Treasury policies to hedge currencies over appropriate time periods of Ireland Forward buying of freight commitments to secure competitive rates Adjustments to customer pricing to reflect movement in hedged currency rates Strong supplier associations bringing innovation to everyday living eg Smart TVs, 3D TVs and a wide range of tablets Seeking opportunities for further sourcing efficiencies Infrastructure development projects The Group is committed to extending its multi-channel leadership and maintaining a robust Delay or failure to manage and implement major infrastructure.
Strategic projects to replace or enhance key systems and infrastructure carry a degree business and infrastructure projects effectively of risk: however, we have dedicated project teams in place with strong governance frameworks to manage them.
Projects to enhance systems within our contact centres for home delivery continue and investment is being made in enhancing the in-store systems that support complex showroom activities for Big Ticket within Homebase.
Other mitigating activities include: Detailed approval and planning process prior to project commencement Board review of status progress of major change programmes Post project implementation reviews Internal audit attendance at steering group for key projects Management expertise in significant infrastructure change programmes Product safety The safety and quality of our products is of paramount importance to the Group.
Suppliers are required Failure to manage supplier relationships and or to sign up to the Groups supply chain principles and to specific policies regarding products and their ensure appropriate quality checks are in place environmental impact.
Argos and Homebase teams aim to work in conjunction with suppliers to ensure improvement opportunities are explored when failings are identified as a result of systematic checks.
Other mitigating activities include: Rigorous quality safety assessment programme for new products Imported products go through pre-shipment inspections by a third party and our own quality teams in the Far East Ongoing monitoring of quality safety for goods on sale S upplier relationship protocols Robust risk-based approach to factory auditing Standard terms and conditions for all suppliers to meet required performance standards Regulatory environment Good governance practices are important to the Group.
In addition to ensuring compliance with existing C hanges in UK and overseas legislation requirements such as data protection, we are active in monitoring potential future developments.
We also and regulation, eg consumer protection, lobby, often with other retailers, to support and develop the industry and the interests of consumers.
In environmental regulation the last year we have launched our anti-bribery policy following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act.
C hanges in UK fiscal employment policy, Argos demonstrated sourcing strength in gaining accreditation from the Responsible Jewellery Council.
eg minimum wage Supporting our existing work with the World Wildlife Fund, we are now working towards compliance with the EU Timber Regulations.
Other mitigating activities include: Membership of industry representative groups, including the British Retail Consortium Pro-active engagement with government and regulators such as Financial Services Authority, UK Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and Trading Standards Dedicated working parties to manage operational change Business interruption A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We manage this risk by A cts of terrorism maintaining and routinely testing our business continuity plans.
The transfer of the Groups data centre F ailure or unavailability of operational and to a secure facility was completed during the year.
The Group remains vigilant to supplier vulnerability and or IT infrastructure continues to work towards a sustainable outcome for all parties.
The additional risks of the UK hosting the D elay or interruption in service provided by 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games have been assessed and contingency plans enhanced as appropriate.
third-party suppliers Other mitigating activities include: Business continuity and recovery planning IT recovery plans including website resilience and penetration tests Third-party supplier management Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 31
