BUSINESS REVIEW PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES HomeServe has a risk management process which provides a structured and consistent framework for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation to the Groups business performance, financial condition, prospects, liquidity and results.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across geographies and business lines.
Risks to HomeServes business are either specific to HomeServes business model, such as affinity partner relationships and underwriting, or more general, such as the impact of competition and regulatory compliance.
The table below sets out what the Board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the past year.
These should be read in conjunction with the Chief Executives and Financial reviews.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware or which we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations in the future.
Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Financial cost of customer The forecasts are based on our This is a new risk that was identified re-contact exercises best estimates including initial during FY2012.
The cost of re-contacting customers pilot exercises.
The charge included in our FY2012 and the possible compensation The UK business is a cash results is based on our best estimates that may be paid to them if any generative, profitable business taking into account the results of initial detriment is identified have been which, if necessary, could set pilot exercises.
based on our best estimates.
It is aside additional funds to meet possible that the actual number of higher costs if required.
customers, response rates and level of compensation could be different.
Commercial relationships We have regular contact We have continued to sign and renew Underpinning the success in and reviews with the senior affinity partnerships with utilities in the our chosen markets are close management of our affinity UK, France, and USA during the past commercial relationships affinity partners to ensure that we 12 months.
partner relationships with utility respond to their needs and deliver We worked closely with all our UK companies and household the service that they expect.
partners to ensure they understood appliance manufacturers.
The loss There are a number of the UK issues that we identified of one of these relationships could partnerships across our markets, and the corrective action we are impact our future customer and mitigating, in part, the impact of implementing.
While these partnerships are secured under long-term contracts, which increase the security of these relationships over the mediumterm, they can be terminated in the event of non-compliance with laws or regulations and or damage to reputation.
34 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Ability to implement an updated We have strengthened the UK This is a new risk that was identified strategy successfully within the management team and recruited during FY2012.
UK business a dedicated programme director At the end of FY2012 we believe we The successful implementation to oversee the development, are making progress in re-invigorating of an updated strategy and the testing and implementation of the our UK customer focus, although the restoration of a customer focused updated strategy.
implementation of initiatives and culture in the UK business is of We are using a number of thirdrevised processes is taking longer than considerable importance to our party specialists to assist in originally expected.
the implementation of projects If we are not able to implement the which are designed to restore the strategy or achieve the restoration customer focused culture.
as effectively or as rapidly as we The expected cost of restoring intend, the future performance of our customer focus has been the UK business may be adversely provided for in the FY2012 results affected, potentially materially.
and the business has the financial There is no certainty as to scope strength to incur additional costs if and cost of the additional activities necessary.
that we may need to undertake to achieve our desired culture.
Competition The market and the activities of There has been no significant change There are a number of businesses other participants are regularly in the competitive landscape in any of that provide services that are similar reviewed to ensure that the the countries in which we operate.
to those of the Group and could strategies and offerings of current therefore compete in one or more and potential competitors are fully of its chosen markets.
competition could affect our ability Both qualitative and quantitative to meet its expectations and research is undertaken to ensure objectives for the business in terms that our products and services of the number of customers, policies continue to meet the needs of or the financial returns achieved.
our customers whilst retaining a competitive position in the market.
We believe we have a compelling proposition for customers, providing them with real value.
This helps reduce the impact of increased competition.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35 BUSINESS REVIEW Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Customer loyalty retention The policy retention rate is one of Retention remains high in all countries A key element of our business our Key Performance Indicators.
although the mix of new and older model is customer loyalty.
Any variance to budget is carefully policyholders in the UK and the mix Any reduction in the proportion investigated to identify why of utility branded and own brand of customers renewing their customer behaviour is changing policyholders in the USA have resulted policies could significantly and to implement corrective in lower reported rates.
The UK rate did reduce slightly quicker We have a wide range of tools than we expected as a result of the available to manage retention suspension of call centre agents rates including specific retention incentive schemes in October.
2012, we implemented new schemes which reflect an improved balance There are also dedicated retention between customer and commercial call centre agents who are trained outcomes and we are confident and experienced in talking to that these will enable us to improve customers who are considering retention rates in the future.
We have closely monitored the impact of the media coverage on our reputation following the identification and announcement of the UKs sales and marketing issues.
To date, we do not believe the media coverage has had a significant impact on our customer loyalty.
Marketing effectiveness The performance of each In the UK, we have reviewed all our A significant reduction in the marketing campaign is regularly mailings and telesales scripts and response rates on direct marketing reviewed, with any significant made a number of changes to give or telesales campaigns could have deviation to the expected greater clarity to customers.
a significant impact on customer response rate quickly identified We have also decided to focus our and policy numbers.
and remedial action taken for UK outbound telesales activity on subsequent campaigns.
cross-selling activity in the future, thereby reducing new customer acquisition in FY2013.
The take-ups on the new UK direct mail creative introduced at the end of January 2012 were below our initial expectations and we will therefore be undertaking further test marketing activity in FY2013.
We are closely monitoring the impact of the media coverage on our reputation following the identification and announcement of the UKs sales and marketing issues.
To date we do not believe the media coverage has had a significant impact on new customer acquisition activity.
36 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Exposure to legislation or We have regulatory specialists During FY2012 we have been regulatory requirements and compliance teams within strengthening our UK governance and We are subject to a broad spectrum each of our businesses to help control processes and management of regulatory requirements in each ensure that all aspects of the team in our UK business.
This has of the markets in which we operate, legislative regime in each territory included the appointment of a new particularly relating to product are fully understood and adopted Compliance Director and a stronger design, marketing materials, sales as required.
Board in the UK business with a new processes and data protection.
Non-Executive Director and good We keep up to date on current progress towards the appointment of Failure to comply with the regulatory government policies through a Non-Executive Chairman.
requirements in any of our countries our external advisors and this could result in us having to reduce ensures products are designed, We have since November 2011 the effectiveness or suspend either marketed and sold in accordance reviewed all of our UK sales and temporarily or permanently certain with relevant legal and regulatory marketing materials and made a activities.
number of changes to ensure they meet all the regulatory requirements.
Any changes in the legislative, In the UK, we are maintaining a regulatory or judicial environment in regular dialogue with the FSA and The FSA has informed us that they plan the countries in which we operate, are ensuring that our actions are to investigate past issues, which will or failure to comply with regulations in line with their feedback.
take a period of several months to may adversely affect our ability to complete.
The FSA have wide ranging powers, which include restrictions on business activities, customer redress and fines if they consider them appropriate under the circumstances.
Availability of underwriters We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our We use underwriters to minimise with the main partner in the UK underwriting relationships on a the impact of significant short-term being separate to those in rest of regular basis to ensure they provide deviations in claims frequencies Europe and the US.
the best returns for customers and and costs.
Our principal underwriters We need to ensure that policy are subject to medium-term pricing and claims frequency agreements, with the rates represent an acceptable risk that subject to regular review.
the underwriters are prepared In addition to this, we maintain to price.
relationships with a number of other underwriters and regularly review the market to ensure we understand current market rates and how these apply to our policies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 37 BUSINESS REVIEW Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Quality of customer service Processes have been established Our engineer network continues to Our reputation is heavily to ensure that all directly employed provide a high quality service, with dependent on the quality of engineers and sub-contractors meet high levels of customer satisfaction our customer service.
These include with the quality of service provided.
criminal record checks and minimum Any failure to meet our service During the year we did, however, qualification requirements.
standards or negative media identify issues with our UK coverage of poor service could Service levels provided by both our directly complaints handling process.
have a detrimental impact on employed and sub-contract engineers are We have, therefore, undertaken a customer and policy numbers.
monitored through the use of customer re-training programme for all our telephone call backs after a repair has UK complaints handling agents and been completed.
Any failure by the have reviewed all of our complaints engineer to adhere to processes or deliver handling processes.
the appropriate standard of service is Any customers who may have addressed by the engineers suffered any detriment through the line manager.
way in which their complaint was handled or the way in which they were sold Complete Cover via the telephone are being re-contacted.
Dependence on recruitment Our employment policies, remuneration We have strengthened our and retention of skilled and benefits packages and long-term management teams during FY2012 personnel incentives are regularly reviewed and with key appointments in both the Our ability to meet growth designed to be competitive with other USA and UK.
effectively is, in part, Employee surveys, performance reviews dependent on the skills, and regular communication of business experience and performance activities are just some of the methods of our personnel.
The inability used to understand and respond to to attract, motivate or retain employees views and needs.
key talent could impact on our overall business performance.
Processes are in place to identify high performing individuals and to ensure that they not only have fulfilling careers, but we are managing succession planning.
38 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2011 Annual Report Exposure to country and The criteria for entering a new country We plan to undertake test regional risk include a full assessment of the stability marketing activity in Germany As a result of our growing of its economy and political situation, in FY2013, having signed a test international footprint we are together with a review of the manner and marketing agreement this year.
subject to increased economic, way in which business is conducted.
political and other risks When entering a new country, we associated with operating in generally do so with a small scale overseas territories.
This low risk entry strategy A variety of factors, including minimises the likelihood of any loss.
changes in a specific countrys political, economic or regulatory requirements, as well as the potential for geographical turmoil including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
Financial strategy and Interest rate risk treasury risk Our policy is to manage our interest cost As a result of our relatively low level The main financial risks are the using a mix of fixed and variable rate of bank borrowings and a stable availability of short and longdebts.
Where necessary, this is achieved interest environment we have not term funding to meet business by entering into interest rate swaps for entered into any swaps during needs, the risk of suppliers certain periods, in which it agrees to F Y2011 or FY2012.
and policyholders not paying exchange, at specified intervals, the monies owed and fluctuations difference between fixed and variable rate in interest rates.
interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
These swaps are designated to hedge underlying debt obligations.
Credit risk HomeServe trades only with creditworthy There has been no change in the third parties.
All suppliers who wish to creditworthiness of our third party trade on credit terms are reviewed for suppliers.
The risk associated with cash and cash equivalents is managed by only depositing funds with reputable and creditworthy banking institutions.
The risk of a policyholder defaulting is There has been no significant mitigated as any policy cover will cease as change in the level of mid-term and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk HomeServe manages liquidity risk by During FY2012, we renewed our maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities.
As part of the banking facilities and continuously renewal, we increased our facility monitoring forecast and actual from 150m to 250m.
