Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 27 Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group has an established risk Acquisitions and Capital Investment Relationships with Key Customers management monitoring and review Acquisitions are an integral part of the The Groups success is defined by process described in the Corporate continuing Groups recent strategy of relationships with its key customers.
A Governance Report on pages 40 to 43. expansion and development.
While material reduction in orders from a major The process requires all businesses recent acquisitions made by the Group customer, whether through competitive to identify, evaluate and monitor risks have integrated well, the Board is action, contractual dispute, business and take steps to reduce, eliminate or conscious of the potential disruption to consolidation or change in strategy could manage the risk.
Group risks are both the Group and acquiree, of an impact the Groups financial performance formally reviewed by the Board at least acquisition process and subsequent and prospects.
The Group is also reliant three times a year and are discussed at integration.
upon the conduct of its customers, given every Board meeting.
The principal risks its products are exported by those identified through this process that The Board is actively involved in customers across the world and used in a Hunting is exposed to, which could monitoring, approving and assessing range of environments, including deep have a material adverse impact are listed acquisitions through post acquisition sea exploration and production.
Senior below, together with the steps the appraisals to mitigate the risk of poor management maintains close relationships Group has taken to mitigate against investment decisions.
All acquisitions with key customers and seeks to maintain these risks.
Some arise from the specific require Board approval prior to the highest level of service to preserve activities undertaken by the Group commitment.
whereas others are common to many international manufacturing companies.
The Group continues to seek Product Quality and Reliability opportunities for organic growth and Product quality and reliability is critical to Risks Specific to the Nature of maintains an active capital investment the Groups reputation with its customers.
The programme Shale Drilling encompasses investments in new Quality assurance standards are The Group provides products to the oil territories, buildings, production monitored, measured and regulated and gas shale drilling industry.
There equipment, rental equipment and IT within the Group under the authority of a may be considerable future resistance to systems.
There is a range of risks Quality Assurance Director, who reports further oil and gas shale exploration and involved in such programmes, including directly to the Chief Executive.
development from significant sections of poor financial returns, management the public, and a drilling moratorium or distraction, facility disruption and risk new laws and regulations may of IT systems failure.
The Board and senior management The Board monitors public and political follow a rigorous process of approving, opinion and maintains an awareness of managing and monitoring capital the potential for changes to legislation investments along with planning for especially with regard to the US where contingencies.
All capital expenditure the Group is mainly exposed.
above discretionary limits requires Board approval prior to commitment.
Raw Material Commodity Prices Although not under the Groups control, a material movement in oil or gas commodity prices could impact demand for the Groups products and services.
Working capital and in particular inventory levels are closely managed to mitigate against exposure to commodity price movement.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 28 Review of Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Other Risks Common to International Health, Safety and Environmental Fluctuation in Currency Manufacturing Businesses HS&E Exchange Rates Economics and Geopolitics The Group is subject to a number of The Group has significant overseas The economic and political environment HS&E laws and regulations that affect operations, hence results are in the geographic areas in which the its operations, facilities and products in denominated in a variety of currencies.
Group operates impacts demand for each of the jurisdictions in which it As a result, the Groups financial energy and therefore the Groups range operates.
The Group is committed to statements, which are reported in sterling, of products and services.
operating in compliance with all HS&E are subject to the effects of foreign laws and regulations relating to its exchange rate fluctuations with respect Management and the Board closely products, operations and business to currency conversions.
monitor trading results, forecasts, political activities.
However, there is a risk that developments and projected economic it may have to incur unforeseen The Group maintains a strategy of trends in order to match capacity to expenditures to cover HS&E liabilities, financial hedging to mitigate such risk, demand and, where possible, minimise to maintain compliance with current or subject to the availability of suitable the impact of adverse trends on the future HS&E laws and regulations or to products at the right cost.
In addition overheads are undertake any necessary remediation.
monitored regularly to ensure the cost base is actively managed.
It is difficult to estimate with any reasonable certainty the future impact Key Executives of HS&E matters, including potential The Group is highly reliant on the liabilities, due to a number of factors and continued service of its key executives especially the lengthy time intervals Dennis Proctor and senior management, who possess often involved in resolving them.
There Chief Executive commercial, engineering, technical and is regular HS&E compliance reporting to financial skills that are critical to the the Board.
Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed to ensure Effective Control Over Subsidiaries they are remunerated in line with market Group subsidiaries operate within a rates.
External consultants are engaged to control framework with a degree of provide guidance on best practice.
autonomy vested in local management.
Peter Rose The control framework has been Finance Director Failure to retain suitably qualified enhanced with additional central staff in 7 March 2013 individuals, or to attract and retain strong areas such as finance and taxation, the management and technical staff in the introduction of new IT systems and future, could have an adverse effect stronger co-ordination of IT activities.
The upon the Group and the results of its operations of subsidiaries are subject to operations.
Senior management regular checking by management through regularly review the availability of the board and management meetings, regular necessary skills within the Group and reporting and contact together with seeks to find suitable staff where they external and internal audit.
