ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES IMI could be affected by a number of risks which might have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance.
The Group has in place an established risk management structure and internal controls framework which together are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
A summary of the Groups risk management processes is given on page 45 and the Groups approach to corporate social responsibility and associated risks is described on pages 26 to 31.
In addition to the risks described here, the Group is also exposed to a number of financial market risks including credit risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, uctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.
A description of these risks and the Groups centralised approach to managing them is described in note 18 to the financial statements.
Further information about pension liabilities is given in note 19 to the financial statements.
The following table shows the principal risks, the potential impacts and mitigation actions.
For each principal risk the current risk rating and change in risk in the year is shown, the latter by means of an arrow.
Risk Description of risk and potential impact Examples of mitigating actions Failure in The Group recognises that it has a duty of care Established systems in place under the IMI Safety First, Safety s to all of its employees.
The Group has made Always slogan, to ensure that health, safety and environmental health, significant progress in the past year in relation to matters are appropriately addressed and any such risks are minimised safety and health, safety and environmental key metrics as including monthly reporting to, and review at, the Executive and environmental detailed elsewhere in this report.
However in the quarterly review at the IMI Board controls event of any failure in the Groups health, safety Increase of full-time health, safety and environmental ofcers across s resulting in and environmental procedures there is a potential the Group to ensure policies are embedded and measured employee risk of injury or death to IMIs employees or others: Regular review of Group safety performance including introduction of s fatality or environmental damage, with the consequential new incident reporting metrics serious injury impact on the operations and the risk of regulatory Group Environment, Health and Safety function with experienced s action against the Group.
specialist employees to provide support and guidance to businesses - including the conduct of regular risk control and health and safety audits Maintenance of insurance for costs associated with any employers s liability, workers compensation or equivalent claims and also certain environmental incidents High NonThe Groups worldwide operations and expansion Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in s in emerging markets expose it to different legal and The IMI Way providing a guiding set of values that exemplify how IMI compliance regulatory requirements and standards in each of employees should behave with the jurisdictions in which it operates.
If the Group The IMI Way was refreshed in 2012 and a corporate IMI Way Day was legislation and s fails to understand and comply with all applicable held in June which included face-to-face training for all employees regulation legislation it could lead to a breach of anti-trust, Policies, manuals, training, business processes and monitoring of key s anti-bribery, fraud or tax laws.
Any breach could compliance, tax and legal risks have a financial impact and damage the Groups Increase in resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance s reputation.
Training of employees on The IMI Way and key risk areas such as s competition law and anti-corruption Availability and promotion of the IMI Hotline to report concerns s anonymously Internal control audits by IMI Group Assurance s Anti-bribery, corruption and fraud workshops carried out s High Economic The status of the global economy could adversely Regular updating of contingency plans s affect the Groups revenues.
The Groups cost base and market Regular Treasury monitoring of southern Europe receivables and cash s includes many costs that cannot be reduced in the held environment short-term in line with reductions in profitability.
The Diverse business portfolio serving different customers and markets s Group may also be required to reassess the carrying Accelerate growth agenda: Investment in new product development s value of acquired goodwill and other assets if and emerging markets certain end markets deteriorate further or for longer, Monitoring of customer and supplier financial security with particular s which may result in impairment charges.
focus on southern Europe Cost base reduction initiatives s Effective cash management s Allocation of resource to more resilient customers, markets and s geographies and focus on global growth trends climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population High Pension The Groups dened benefit pension arrangements deficit reduction plans where appropriate s are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates funding Closure of overseas dened benefit plans to new members and future s and the market values of investments as well as accrual where permissible ination, increased longevity of members and Active management of pension scheme assets and long term view of s statutory requirements.
This may result in the cost liability assumptions of funding dened benefit pension arrangements becoming an increasingly significant burden on the Groups financial resources.
High High Board reports 32 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk Description of risk and potential impact Examples of mitigating actions Loss of a Temporary or permanent loss of a key manufacturing Development and regular testing of robust business continuity plans s site or warehouse as a result of a natural disaster key facility or any other reason.
A stoppage in production or supply could have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Medium The Group is exposed to risks associated with Continued focus on quality and safety, including audits to appropriate Products and s the commercial failure of products, projects and quality standards technology technologies such as product liability and warranty Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of any s claims.
The quality and safety of our products is of failure the highest importance and there is an associated Maintenance of insurance cover for product liability claims s risk if they are below standard.
For product claims Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and s not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot product development otherwise be recovered may be material to the Contract management resources for both sales and purchases Group.
s Medium The Group utilises a significant number of IT systems Development and regular testing of Disaster Recovery plans IT failure s ranging from web-based sales systems to enterprise computer Ensuring Business Continuity Plans are robust and address s resource planning systems.
Failure of any of the temporary unavailability of IT systems system systems could impact business performance and key Strategy to upgrade or replace key systems collapse s customer relationships.
Medium The Group has a significant number of contracts with Monitoring of risk and development of contingency plans to mitigate Supply chain s a broad base of suppliers.
In the current economic the impact of any supplier failure or increased prices environment there is a risk that their access to Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers s credit or adverse trading conditions could lead to an Moves to new lower cost manufacturing facilities, ongoing review s inability to meet their contractual commitments to of alternative low cost suppliers and, where appropriate, supplier the Group.
In addition, poor quality materials could consolidation impact overall product quality.
The increasing use of Training and audit programme to validate suppliers business s suppliers in low cost economies could introduce risks processes, quality and standards related to quality or responsible business practices.
All this could have a material impact on the Groups results.
Medium The Group will need to undertake a number of Upgrade of resources and talent in project management Major project s major change projects in line with its strategic execution Regular review of project progression by Executive s objectives including business reorganisation and Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action s implementation of IT systems.
If these projects fail plans for all major change projects to deliver the desired objectives in the required time Group Assurance reviews s frame it would have an adverse financial impact on the Group.
Medium A loss of key personnel or the inability of the Group Succession plans in place and regularly reviewed Failure to s to recruit and retain high calibre managers and attract and Group-wide training and development programmes s engineering talent may lead to the Group not being retain talent Increased resources in emerging markets s able to effectively implement its business plans Regular Group-wide employee surveys and action plans targeted by s and strategy and experiencing delays, or increased company or geography difficulty, in the strategic development of the Group, including in developing and selling its products and services.
Medium Medium Risk Appetite The Board has considered the Groups risk appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
The level of risk appetite varies according to the rewards associated with each of the above risk categories.
Risk appetite is higher for new product development, emerging market growth and bolt-on acquisitions, in keeping with our objective for further strategic convergence and is lower for employee safety and compliance with regulatory requirements and our code of business ethics.
