Risk Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials e t a g i t i M I d e n t 48 Risk Management Effectively Managing the Risks We Face In this section we outline the risks we face across Risk Management: our business and our approach to mitigating and How it works at Imperial Tobacco managing them.
Our approach Board Our business and the risks we face are constantly changing Oversight of risk management framework and review of and we regularly review our policies and risk management its effectiveness procedures to ensure they are up-to-date and appropriately protect our stakeholders.
During the year, and in consultation with the Board and Audit Committee, we continued to strengthen our risk management Audit Committee processes and procedures.
We have now brought these Ongoing review of the risks and controls in place to mitigate together into a new Corporate Assurance Department with these risks responsibility for further driving risk management initiatives throughout the organisation.
Our Director of Corporate Assurance reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the Operating Executive OPEX on matters of risk management.
Operating Executive This approach enables us to clearly focus on the key risks Operational ownership of the risks and mitigating activities facing our business, particularly where these change as a result of our strategy and or changes to both the macro-economic and tobacco operating environments.
Corporate Assurance Department In past years the Risk Coordination Committee RCC played an important role in developing the Group risk Works with our business to consolidate identi ed risks across our management framework and overall assessment of key risks.
markets, factories, regions and functions into our Group Risk Register Having reached this point, this role has now been assumed by the OPEX, supported by other management meetings across the Group and facilitated by the new Corporate Group Risk Register Assurance Department.
Managed and maintained by our Corporate Assurance Department to We have reviewed the material risks facing our business to assist in re ecting and assessing the risk landscape and to identify ensure a consistent top down approach in how we identify, mitigating activities assess and prioritise material risks, as well as assessing our existing measures to manage and mitigate those risks.
This top down approach is complemented by an annual bottom up review by local management of principal areas of risk and uncertainty by each area of the business.
This process has driven the production of our Risk Register.
As well as strategic, operational, financial and legal risks our Risk Register covers a number of emerging, environmental, community and ethical risks.
Senior local management Identify and manage the key risks across our markets, factories, regions and functions and develop mitigating actions at a local level For more detail on our principal risks see pages 52 to 55 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 i f y k n a R M o n i t o r s s e s s A Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials Risk 49 Risk and the Board a continuing process for the identi cation and evaluation of The Directors are ultimately responsible for overseeing our signi cant risks to the achievement of business objectives: risk management system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
management processes in place to mitigate signi cant risks This system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the to an acceptable level: risk of failure to achieve business objectives and the Groups risk management system is subject to regular review to ensure ongoing monitoring of signi cant risks and internal and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the external environmental factors that may change the Groups Code and the Turnbull Guidance 2005 on internal control risk pro le: and risk management.
an annual Risk Assessment Summary process, which The Board, with advice from the Audit Committee, has combines a top down view of strategic risks with a bottomcompleted its annual review of the effectiveness of the system up risk assessment exercise requiring individual markets, of internal control and risk management and con rms that an factories, regions and functions across the Group to identify ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the major areas of business risk, including any speci c local risks Groups signi cant risks has operated throughout the year and demonstrate how these are mitigated and managed by and up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report and controls at the local and where appropriate, Group level.
Accounts in accordance with the requirements of the Code and This exercise forms the basis for the Directors annual review the Turnbull Guidance.
of the effectiveness of the system of internal control: and The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out a regular review of both the type and amount of external at the end of this section on pages 52 to 55. insurance purchased by the Group after consideration of the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and Risk and the Operating Executive magnitude of the risks involved.
The OPEX considers the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key management role and has ultimate operational Risk and Local Management responsibility for the Groups system of risk management.
By re-enforcing the message that responsibility for risk The OPEX reviews the Groups signi cant risks and management sits at the local operational level, it becomes subsequently reports to the Board on material changes further embedded in our day-to-day operations and becomes and the associated mitigating actions.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance, an annual review of This approach requires each relevant business unit to: the effectiveness of the risk management system was carried identify those key risks to the business that have, or may out by the OPEX in September 2012. result in, losses or adverse results and to re ect any changes Risk and Group-Wide Management in the risk position: Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is a key element analyse those risks and estimate the probability, impact and of all our business activities, and is undertaken using a practical potential timescales should the risks arise: and exible framework which provides a consistent and sustained approach to risk evaluation.
Business risks, which con rm and record the actions, mitigating controls or other may be strategic, operational, financial or environmental, or business processes that are used to manage the risks, concern the Groups reputation, are understood and visible.
so that they are either eliminated entirely or reduced to The business context determines in each situation the level of an acceptable level: and acceptable risk and controls.
The Group continues to seek track and report progress of managing these risks on an improvement in the management of risk by sharing best practice ongoing basis.
Key features of the Groups system of risk management are: Group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values, including our Code of Conduct: clear business objectives and business principles: Group policies and standards: Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
