Risk Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials 52 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk Management Overview We outline below the principal risks speci c to our business and how we manage and mitigate them.
Not all these factors are within our control and the list is not exhaustive.
There may be other risks and uncertainties that are unknown to us and the list may change as something that seems immaterial now assumes greater importance in the future, and vice versa.
We are subject to the same general risks as many other businesses: for example, changes in general economic conditions, including currency and interest rate uctuations, changes in taxation legislation, cyber-security breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, the cost of our raw materials, the impact of competition, political instability in some of the countries in which we operate and source our raw materials and the impact of natural disasters.
Principal Risks Illicit Trade Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales Overview Illicit trade remains a key risk for the Group, particularly given the tough economic conditions in certain markets during the year.
In countries where dif cult economic conditions result in reduced disposable incomes, consumers look for cheaper products.
Illicit trade can take the form of smuggled genuine tobacco products, counterfeit tobacco products and illicit whites whereby third parties produce cigarettes paying minimal tax, for the primary purpose of smuggling.
This area is a signi cant and growing problem for the legitimate tobacco industry.
We estimate that the illicit trade in tobacco accounts for over 10 per cent of the global tobacco market and in our engagement activities we are proactively encouraging regulators to address the relationship between excessive regulation, excise duty increases and illicit trade.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Illicit trade may lead to erosion of demand for legitimate We proactively engage on the issue of illicit trade with a wide tobacco products and damage to our brand integrity, resulting range of stakeholders.
in loss of potential earnings, and potentially an impact on We invest to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products and our reputation.
are working with governments, other legitimate tobacco Illegal trading in our products may result in the Group and or companies and international organisations globally.
our employees being subject to investigation or other In 2010, we entered into a 20-year co-operation agreement proceedings by customs or other authorities which could with the EU to collectively tackle the problem of illicit trade.
ultimately result in penalties and fines being imposed on We work alongside the European Commissions Anti-Fraud the Group.
Of ce OLAF and the law enforcement agencies of EU Member States.
We have signed Memoranda of Understanding MoU and industry agreements with customs authorities in 21 countries to tackle illicit trade, based on joint action and shared intelligence.
We have strong internal business conduct standards and controls and apply stringent controls to our customers.
These are set out in our Group policies and standards, Code of Conduct and product supply compliance processes and procedures.
Our Code of Conduct is available on our website www.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials Risk 53 Excise Duty Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales Overview Tobacco products are subject to excise duty which, in many of the markets in which we operate, represents a substantial percentage of the retail price.
Taxes are generally increasing in many markets and the rate of increase varies country by country and by different tobacco product group.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Substantial increases in excise duty and any unfavourable Our total tobacco portfolio ensures that we have a range of change in the tax treatment of ne cut tobacco, if widely products to meet consumers preferences at different price adopted, may have an adverse effect on the demand for points.
As part of our strategy we monitor our portfolio to our products and impact our future pro t development.
ensure it continues to be aligned to consumer preferences in the context of the excise duty structure in each market.
Excise duty increases also encourage both legal and illegal We are focused on continuing to develop portfolio strategies cross-border trade from countries with lower levels of duty.
that will enable us to capitalise on value seeking consumers.
We are engaging with local tax and customs authorities to encourage them to address the relationship between excise duty increases and illicit trade.
Regulation Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost Overview The tobacco industry is subject to substantial and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices worldwide, as regulators seek to reduce consumption of tobacco products.
In many of the countries in which we operate, there are a wide range of regulatory restrictions in place, including where tobacco products can be smoked and their development, content, manufacture, packaging and labelling, testing, data reporting, sale, distribution, display, marketing and advertising.
Some of these measures may also have the effect of reducing the value of our brands in the various markets where we operate, as well as encouraging illicit trade.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Imperial Tobacco, along with all other tobacco companies, We employ experienced senior Corporate Affairs specialists to is often excluded from engaging with regulators on the manage regulatory risk and engage with regulators and consult development of regulatory proposals which may lead to with external experts where necessary to provide advice and excessive regulation.
We develop company positions and toolkits and provide training and guidance for our markets to comply Tobacco regulation is often designed to change consumer with regulation.
behaviour by in uencing availability and demand through denormalising smoking, by means of such measures as We monitor proposals for new measures globally and analyse increasing pack encroachment and plain packaging, the them to identify their potential impact on the Group and its restriction in places where smoking is permitted and higher products.
We work towards consistent engagement on key excise duties.
Increasing regulation combined with rising issues and we are active members of relevant industry bodies, excise duties encourage growth in illicit trade.
challenging unreasonable and disproportionate regulation.
Any future changes to regulation of the tobacco industry could We continuously look to understand and predict potential have an adverse effect on the demand for our products or consumer reaction to excessive regulation and adapt our increase the costs related to compliance and contribute to strategy accordingly, including for example assessing our an increase in illicit trade.
footprint, assets and product quality.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials 54 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Market Place Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and cost Overview The continued growth of our business is underpinned by the performance of our key brands as well as our position in our key markets, including in the UK, Germany, Spain and other EU markets.
Given our signi cant position in certain markets, we may be subject to enhanced regulatory scrutiny in these countries, as well as being affected by their economic positions.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Any material decline in the economic circumstances of, and or Our international footprint and total tobacco portfolio provides our performance in, our key markets may impact on our future an increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and Non-EU pro t development and have an adverse impact on the Groups markets.
Our total tobacco portfolio includes international strength in Our signi cant market position in certain countries could also cigarettes and world leadership in ne cut tobacco, cigars, result in investigations and adverse regulatory action by relevant rolling papers and tubes which provides us with enhanced competition authorities, including the potential for monetary growth opportunities.
The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees detailing the obligations and requirements of competition laws.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
More detail of a market speci c regulatory action by a competition authority is outlined on page 74.
Eurozone Country and currency risk Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on sales and pro tability Overview Recent developments in Eurozone countries have resulted in a higher risk of disruption, a reduction in the level of consumer spending and increased risk of currency volatility and or the potential of an exit of one or more countries from the euro.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Fifty three per cent of our revenue is from our sales in Eurozone We are continually monitoring our exposure and reviewing our countries and, accordingly, we have a signi cant exposure to existing processes and policies to minimise our economic these markets.
exposure and to preserve our ability to operate in a range of potential conditions that may exist in the event of one or more Ongoing uncertainty regarding the future of the euro, or of these future events.
the exit of one or more countries may impact consumer spending patterns.
Our total tobacco portfolio also gives us a measure of resilience as the market changes.
Further, were a break-up to occur, the resulting situation may cause disruption to our manufacturing and supply chain operations.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financials Risk 55 Financing Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and cash Overview We have a signi cant level of committed debt which is nanced primarily in the debt capital markets and in the bank loan markets.
We expect to rely on these markets to re finance this debt when it matures and rely on the availability of committed funds from our bank counterparties to be available when required to be drawn.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities We may be unable to re finance our debt, when it matures, in We have a centralised treasury function, which is responsible the debt capital markets and loan markets.
In addition, the cost for the management of the financial risks of the Group, together of re nancing the debt, when it matures, may be materially with its nancing and liquidity requirements.
higher than the current cost.
The Group Treasury Committee GTC sets a framework for the We may be subject to reduced availability of nancing treasury function to operate within.
The framework covers, because our bank counterparties are unable to honour their amongst other things, nancing, liquidity and counterparty risk.
commitments when required to deliver funds that they have The GTC oversees the operation of Group Treasury in committed to lend when requested.
accordance with the terms of reference set out by the Board.
Although a material part of the Groups debt is currently at xed The Board reviews and approves all major treasury decisions levels of interest, the Group is still exposed to movements in and receives regular reports from the Group Treasurer.
interest rates which could result in higher cash out ows.
Cash ows and nancing requirements are regularly forecast If we are unable to re finance our debt or incur higher interest and developments in debt capital and bank loan markets are costs this could impact the Groups pro tability, credit rating monitored to ensure we are well placed to meet the future and ability to operate as a going concern.
nancing needs of the Group.
In addition, limited ability to borrow additional funds may also reduce the exibility for, or reacting to, competitive and industry pressures, or opportunities.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations and the approach to managing its nancing risks can be found in note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 118 to 123.
Legal Compliance Principal relevance to strategy: Potential impact on cost and sales Overview We may be exposed to liabilities and reputational risk by failing to comply with any of the laws that are applicable to the Group or incur costs and liabilities as a result of tobacco litigation claims.
Risk and potential impact Mitigating activities Failure to comply with local and international laws including The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of sanctions may result in investigations.
This may cause damage Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with to our reputation and has the potential for financial and criminal legislation relevant to a UK listed company and in the countries penalties for both the Group and individuals.
Tobacco-related litigation claims are pending against the Group We monitor closely developments in international sanctions and in a number of countries.
More claims may be brought in the ensure that we are fully compliant with them.
future, including claims for personal injury and the recovery To date, no tobacco litigation claim brought against the Group of medical costs allegedly incurred in treating smokers.
If any has been successful and or resulted in the recovery of claim were to be successful, it may result in a signi cant damages.
We employ internal and external lawyers specialising liability for damages and may lead to further claims against us.
in the defence of product liability litigation to provide advice Regardless of the outcome, the costs of defending such and guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage claims can be substantial and may not be fully recoverable.
litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
Further details of market speci c tobacco litigation claims against Group companies are outlined on page 74.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 57 What you will find in this section: Governance 58 Chairmans Introduction 60 Board of Directors 64 Board Committees 70 Corporate Governance Report 77 Directors Remuneration Report Building Total Tobacco Brands Fi F F Fi F ne ne c c c cut ut t tob ob obac acco co Ou Ou Ou O O O r r r wo wo wo wo orl rld d d le lead ad der ersh sh hip ip ip iin n n ne ne ne c cut ut t t tob ob obac ac cco co iis s a a re re eal al a st s s st st t tre re re eng ng ng ngth th th t th h o o o o of f f f ou ou our r bu busi s sine ess ss, pa part rtic icul ular a arly ly y iiin n n n th th h he e e e e cu cu cu urr ren en e ent t t t e ec ec econ on o ono om o om omic ic ic ic c c c c cli li li lima ma ma ma ma m te te te te te e... We We We Wer re e e e ha ha h vi vi ving ng g g g g gre reat at at a s s su uc uc ucce ce e e ess s ss ss iiin n n ou ou our r r co c co c c c re re E E EU U U U ma ma ma ark rk rk rke et et ets, s, s s, p p p p par ar ar ar arti ti ti ti ticu cu cu cu cu u u ula la la la la arl rl r rl rl rly y y y y in in in in in in i t t t t t t the he he he he he h h h h h hig ig gh h h h gr gr gr gr g gr gr gr grow ow ow ow ow o owth th th h h s s seg eg eg gme ment nt t o o o off ma make ke y you ou ou u ur ow ow ow own n n n n to t to to to toba ba ba ba ba bacc cc c c cco o o. o. o Imperial Tobacco Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
