Informa plc Risks and Uncertainties A number of factors could potentially affect the Groups operating results and financial condition risk factors.
The Group adopts a risk management process that is monitored by the Board and which is intended to ensure a consistent and coherent approach to managing the risk factors that are described in this section and to those other risk factors that may arise or which may become material in the future as outlined in the Corporate Governance section on page 46.
Each of these risk factors are tabled at frequent Risk Committee Meetings a sub-committee of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
The members of the Risk Committee include the Executive Directors, the Group HR Director, the Deputy Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Head of IT, senior divisional Managing Directors, and a representative from Internal Audit.
This section describes the principal risk factors that the Directors believe could materially affect the Group, but this is not an exhaustive list as other risks may arise or existing risks may materially increase in the future.
These are listed in no order of priority, and alongside each risk is a note of the main mitigating factors or actions which the Group takes.
Risk Mitigation Mitigation is achieved, where possible, through the 1.
The Groups businesses are affected by the economic Groups diversification of its operations across vertical conditions of the sectors and regions in which they and markets and geographies, which provides a broad their customers operate and the markets in which the Group customer base.
The Group maintains a competitive operates are highly competitive and subject to rapid change advantage through ongoing investment in its products, reinforcing its market leading position in many markets.
Furthermore, during the recent difficult economic The performance of the Group depends on the financial health and strength of its customers, conditions the Group has enhanced its credit control which in turn is dependent on the economic conditions of the industries and geographic function with a view to maintaining tighter control over regions in which they operate.
Traditionally, spending on parts of the Groups products has upfront payments for events and subscriptions and also been cyclical due to companies spending significantly less in times of economic uncertainty.
continuous monitoring of trade receivables to mitigate further default risk.
The markets for the Groups products are highly competitive and in a state of ongoing and uncertain change.
If the Group is unable to successfully enhance and or develop its products in a timely fashion, the Groups revenue could be affected.
There are also low barriers to entry in relation to certain parts of the Groups businesses.
The Group is constantly developing its product types 2.
The Groups Academic Information AI divisions and content range to minimise this effect so that revenue can be adversely affected by changes in the academic institutions consider that the Groups purchasing behaviour of academic institutions online and print based content is an important purchase even in times of economic uncertainty and austerity.
Additionally, the Group has developed its Academic institutions fund purchases of Group products from budgets that may be reach, and continues to expand its sales activities sensitive to changes in private including endowments and governmental sources of outside of the more established western territories funding particularly in times of economic uncertainty and austerity.
Accordingly, any to the faster developing markets, like Asia, where such decreases are likely to affect adversely the Groups results within its AI division.
economic growth is currently stronger and new universities are being built.
The Group has formal investment decision criteria to 3.
The Groups continued growth depends, in part, on its identify suitable, earnings enhancing, acquisition successful ability to identify and complete acquisitions and its targets and employs experienced professionals to drive ability to expand the business into new geographic regions the acquisition process.
Post acquisition integration plans are prepared to ensure businesses are effectively integrated into the Group and that planned synergies With new acquisitions there can be no assurances that the Group will achieve the expected are realised.
return on its investment, particularly as the success of any acquisition also depends in part on the Groups ability to integrate the acquired business or assets.
Attractive acquisitions In expanding its business geographically, both may be difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including competition organically and by acquisition, the Group reviews among prospective buyers and economic uncertainty.
These issues particularly relate to risks relevant to particular geographies and large acquisitions.
28 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc Risk continued Mitigation continued To mitigate this risk, the Group continuously monitors 4.
Reliance on or loss of key customers may reduce changes in its markets places and regularly seeks demand for the Groups products feedback from customers, adjusting its product offering in response where appropriate.
The Group also invests In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have in its products and delivery platforms.
become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend is expected to continue.
For example, some governmental and regulatory agencies have increased the amount of information they make publicly available at no cost.
Such sources may reduce demand for the Groups Publishing products.
In the Events and Training division there are a number of exhibitions that individually contribute significantly to the profitability of their respective business units, because of the size of the events and the relatively high gross profit margins earned by them.
The risks are mitigated by the Groups Health and Safety 5.
A major accident at an exhibition or event H&S policies and H&S training courses.
The venues used for our Events are assessed against a minimum The Groups Events and Training division organises events that can be attended by up to company criteria based on the risk it poses.
50,000 individuals on a given day, which results in health and safety risks including fire safety, structural collapse, food hygiene, crowd control, security and evacuation routes in an The Group HR Director reports on Health and Safety issues to the Risk Committee.
Furthermore, the delegates are often not familiar with the venue which increases the policies is the responsibility of local management the risk of trip and fall type accidents.
At its most severe, there have been incidents in the last teams, with the Group Health & Safety Manager 10 years, albeit not involving the Group, resulting in loss of life through accidents at an Events available to assist with the implementation.
A programme of annual internal audits has been established: these were conducted at Informa events Additionally, the Events and Training division does not normally own the venues it operates businesses in different geographical regions and from, instead hiring floor space from a number of sources including exhibition centres, focused on the health and safety management of conference halls, hotels and training centres.
As the Group does not own the venues directly, high risk events.
it is dependent on the operators of the venues to have adequate safety policies in place, which comply with all regulations in the local jurisdiction.
Business continuity plans have been implemented 6.
Significant operational disruption caused by a major disaster across the Group, including disaster recovery programmes, and plans to minimise business Major disasters, arising from either natural causes or man-made, have the potential to disruption.
Risk assessments are also carried out for significantly disrupt the operation of the business.
In particular, the success of the Groups Events all higher risk locations used by the Group, and these and Training division is dependent on bringing potentially large numbers of individuals to are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Group also has events, either as paying delegates or non-paying visitors to exhibitions.
Events that have the relevant insurance cover for certain occurences.
capacity to result in significant operational disruption to global travel include natural disasters, military conflict, political unrest, terrorist activity and industrial action.
Additionally, disasters can disrupt the Groups electronic platforms and distribution systems as outlined in point 8.
To mitigate this risk, senior management communicate 7.
Inadequate crisis management effectively within the organisation, constantly reviewing the Groups responses to emerging issues.
The impact of any given event on the Group can potentially increase if the emerging situation However, by their nature, it is impossible to have a is not managed appropriately or effectively.
In addition to the principal risk factors documented detailed crisis management plan in place for all in this section, other risk factors have the ability to cause significant damage to the Groups potential situations that could arise, and therefore the brand and reputation if effective management is not implemented to mitigate their impact.
ultimate mitigation is dependent on managements Additionally, the speed and global coverage of media can result in a perceived crisis being judgement, speed of reaction and quality of communication in a crisis situation.
communicated rapidly, thus further damaging the Groups brand and reputation.
The Group regularly invests in its internet and 8.
The Group is dependent on the internet and its electronic electronic delivery platforms, networks and delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems distribution systems, and provides user support and services to customers having problems accessing data.
The Groups businesses are increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and distribution systems, which primarily deliver the Groups products through the internet.
Any significant failure or interruption of these systems, or the Groups wider IT infrastructure could thereby restrict the Groups ability to provide services to customers.
The Group may also be disadvantaged if it does not keep abreast of all relevant new technological advances or if such changes are expensive to implement.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 29 29 Informa plc Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED Risk continued Mitigation continued The Group regularly invests in improving data security, 9.
Breaches of the Groups data security systems or other digital rights encryption and contracted obligations of unauthorised access to its databases could adversely distributors.
These efforts are led by a designated data affect the Groups businesses and operations security officer.
In the event of unauthorised access, the Group would protect its intellectual property IP as outlined in point 12.
The Group has valuable databases and as part of its business provides its customers with access to database information.
There are persons who may try to breach the Groups data security systems or gain other unauthorised access to its databases in order to misappropriate such information for potentially fraudulent purposes or to approach the Groups customers for commercial purposes.
This could damage the Groups reputation and expose it to risks of loss, litigation and or regulatory action, as well as increase the likelihood of more extensive governmental supervision of these activities in a way that could adversely affect this aspect of the Groups business.
The Group offers compensation packages which are 10.
The Group relies on the experience and talent of its competitive based on current market information and senior management and on its ability to recruit and retain thereby give it the best opportunity to recruit and key employees for the success of its business retain people of sufficient calibre.
The Group believes that its people are challenged in their day to day work and obtain appropriate and relevant experience to The successful management and operations of the Group are reliant upon the contributions develop further and prepare for progression within of its senior management and other key personnel.
In addition, the Groups future success the organisation.
depends in part on its ability to continue to recruit, motivate and retain highly experienced and qualified employees in the face of often intense competition from other companies.
The Group employs an experienced Head of Group 11.
Changes in tax laws or their application or Tax who keeps abreast of potential changes in tax interpretation may adversely impact the Group legislation across a range of jurisdictions, enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the tax position The Group operates in a large number of countries.
Accordingly, its earnings are subject to tax of any of its companies or businesses.
In emerging in many jurisdictions.
Relevant authorities may amend the substance or interpretation of tax markets, the Group works with established and reputable tax advisers in order to ensure it pays the laws that apply to the Groups businesses, in a manner that is adverse to the Group.
The Group correct amount of tax.
The Group is also careful to is growing its business in emerging markets where tax frameworks are not as well developed ensure that profits arising in low tax jurisdictions are which increases this risk.
There can therefore be no assurance that the various levels of no more than commensurate with the substance of taxation to which the Group is subject will not be increased or changed.
In addition, if any the operation in those territories.
Group company is found to be, or to have been, tax resident in any jurisdiction other than those in which the Group is currently deemed to be tax resident or to have a permanent establishment in any such jurisdiction, this may have a material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
Finally, regardless of whether the Group has paid the correct amount of tax, there may be a public perception that the Group has not paid sufficient tax and this may be more pronounced, given that the Company has its domicile in Zug, Switzerland.
The Group protects its rights by consolidating its 12.
The Groups IP rights may not be adequately portfolio of trademark registrations, implementing its protected and may be challenged by third parties brand protection strategy, and increasing its digital rights protection.
The Group supports these activities The Group relies on agreements with its customers as well as trademark, copyright and other through membership of organisations that defend IP laws to establish and protect the IP rights subsisting in its journals, books and training IP rights globally.
However, these rights may be challenged, limited, invalidated or circumvented by third parties seeking to infringe or otherwise profit from the Groups proprietary rights without its authorisation.
In addition, there is now a growing amount of copyright legislation relating to digital content.
These laws remain under legislative review and there remains significant uncertainty as to the form copyright law may ultimately take.
Additionally, enforcement of IP rights is restricted in certain jurisdictions, and the global nature of the internet makes it impossible to control the ultimate destination of content produced by the Group.
The Group may also be the subject of claims for infringement of third party rights or party to claims to determine the scope and validity of the IP rights of others.
Litigation based on these claims is common amongst companies that utilise digital IP.
30 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc Risk continued Mitigation continued The Group seeks to monitor ongoing changes to data 13.
The Group is subject to regulation regarding protection laws and best practices across its main the use of personal customer data trading areas in order to ensure that appropriate protections and procedures are in place in relation to The Group is required to comply with strict data protection and privacy legislation which the data held by or on behalf of the Group.
This work restrict the Groups ability to collect and use personal information.
The Group is exposed is overseen by the Group General Counsel and a Data Protection Steering Committee, a sub-committee of to the risk that its data could be wrongfully appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in the Risk Committee.
breach of data protection regulation, by or on behalf of the Group, in which case the Group could face liability under data protection laws and or suffer reputational damage from the resulting lost customer goodwill.
The Group monitors legislative and regulatory changes 14.
The Group may be adversely affected by enforcement and alters its business practices where appropriate.
of and changes in legislation and regulation affecting its businesses and that of its customers Compliance with various laws and regulations does impose significant compliance costs and restrictions on the Group, with the risk of fines and or other sanctions for non-compliance.
In addition, such regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering authorities and changes in existing laws or regulations, or in their interpretation or enforcement, could require the Group to incur additional costs in complying with those laws, or require changes to its strategy, operations or accounting and reporting systems.
In particular, laws and regulations relating to communications, data protection, e-commerce, direct marketing and digital advertising have become more prevalent and complex in recent years.
Mitigation is achieved through structured 15.
The Groups credit risk in respect of long term receivables communication with the external parties, close monitoring of financial and budgetary performance, The Group has a small number of external loans which are repayable over the next two to ten and delivery against project milestones.
The recoverability of the capital and interest payments is dependent on the financial instances capital and interest payments occur success of those external parties over the coming years.
Since the majority of the repayment during the loan term and so any failure to pay can terms are over a long period of time, the risk of unforeseen issues that could impact future be addressed at the time and remedial actions can repayments may increase.
The Risk Committee will conduct credit risk assessments on a half-yearly basis to ensure the external receivables are correctly recorded in the Groups accounts.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 31 31
