Business Review Risk management IHG recognises the importance of having in place an effective system of internal controls and risk management to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies in the world.
Our Board and Committees work together with senior management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risks.
This is an essential part of being a Responsible Business.
Comprehensive and accurate risk content Risk management system Risk management is about managing uncertainty and IHG seeks Our internal controls and risk management system aims to support to develop comprehensive and accurate risk content through the delivery of our strategy by managing the risk of failing to achieve risk assessments.
This enables us to have better informed business objectives and protecting our business, in particular: decision-making, which when implemented in the right cultural our brands and market position: context, greatly improve performance at the strategic, tactical and our financial strength and performance: operational levels of the business.
We therefore categorise our risks our business capability and systems including our People, in this way to ensure that we consider the relevant risks and have IT systems and ways of working: and in place appropriate oversight roles: our business reputation and relationships with stakeholders.
Strategic and market risks: these typically arise from changes We are continually evolving our risk management system to in the external environment and can impact on our Vision, respond to our ever-changing competitive environment, business ambitions and strategy over the long-term often five to ten years relationships and guest preferences and believe that for this to be or more.
Risk assessments are integrated into Board level effective, we must: strategy setting and in the strategic planning process, which have a proactive risk management culture: includes reporting to the Chief Executive during strategic reviews.
embed risk management activity across our business: Strategic risks are managed by senior leadership teams across have comprehensive and accurate risk content: and the regions and corporate functions, with oversight by the Executive Committee.
have a robust risk management process and framework.
Tactical and project risks: these are risks that impact the Proactive risk management culture delivery of IHGs key initiatives and projects.
They often arise Having in place an effective system of internal controls and risk from project delivery challenges such as complexity, inaccurate management is essential to being a Responsible Business.
Project risks are managed Therefore, the Board aims to embed proactive risk management as part of the management and delivery of projects, with central capability and culture throughout the business.
In achieving this, the oversight on all priority projects provided by the Programme Board is supported by the General Counsel and Company Secretary Office and the Executive Committee.
As explained on page 31, and the Heads of Global Risk Management and Global Internal Audit.
the Programme Office has been integral in driving a consistent IHGs ambition for risk management is to foster a culture that approach to our internal projects.
Project risk management is well-informed, curious, alert, responsive, consistent and awareness, identification and mitigation is included as part accountable so that risk management becomes instinctive.
of our project planning, management and delivery processes We consider risks in a wide number of business activities, these and training tools.
include, but are not limited to, : Operational risks: these include a wide spectrum of risks that key strategic planning and budget allocation processes: can affect the resilience, continuity or performance of IHGs the Programme Offices processes on project planning, internal operating systems or hotels.
They are managed by management and delivery see page 31 : and corporate functions and regional teams working collaboratively the design of policies, procedures, internal controls, and with General Managers and hotel management teams to set our approach to corporate governance see pages 46 to 58. policies and standards, and provide systems and tools, suitable for hotels to implement.
Our senior leadership teams, Our risk management capability is continually developing and regional operating committees, Global Operations Council growing through ongoing risk assessment, post-project reviews and the Executive Committee work together to provide and post-incident and crisis reviews.
Embedded Risk Management Activity We seek to integrate risk-based solutions, programmes and activities into our day-to-day business processes.
The Group continues to invest in risk management systems, training and IHG controls to improve the performance and resilience of the Strategic Regions business to protect IHG, our business, our brands, our guests and functions and our other stakeholders.
By way of example, we have shown the application of the Risk Projects Tactical Management Framework with respect to how we manage safety and security risk in our hotels in the Hotel Safety Framework on IHG operating system page 41.
Additional risk activity applied to some of the dynamic risks Owned Operational the Group faces are described in the control and mitigation activities Hotels Managed Franchised described on pages 40 and 41.
38 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Likelihood Robust risk management process and framework The Major Risk Review process enables the business to identify, monitor and manage the most significant risks to the Group the Major Risks and report these to the senior leadership teams across the regions and corporate functions.
The Risk Management Framework provides a systematic consistent approach to managing identified risks.
Major Risk Review process Audit Committee Board Having in place a robust major risk review process is essential to maintaining an effective risk management system.
IHGs Major Risk Executive Committee Review process continuously identifies, monitors and manages risks owned by a wide range of stakeholders across each region, major projects and the corporate functions.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups strategy and system of internal controls and risk management, as explained on pages 54 and 55.
In addition, the Audit Committee annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk IHG Risk Profile management system.
Risks identified in the regions, functions and projects are consolidated, refined and calibrated against a strategic view of risks by the Risk Working Group RWG.
The RWG is chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary and comprises the Heads of Global Strategy, Programme Office, Global Risk Management and Global Internal Audit and takes an active role in overseeing the Major Risks.
Risk Working Group RWG The RWG meets on a quarterly basis, to ensure the Major Risks are appropriately managed and emerging risks are identified.
The Major Risks are then discussed with the Executive Committee to gain agreement on the risk descriptions and ownership of actions, before final presentation to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Risk Profiles in Regions, Functions and Projects Risk Management Framework The Risk Management Framework is depicted in the Manage Risk cog of the Hotel Safety Framework shown on page 41.
This is a pragmatic risk framework which starts with a risk profile and moves through the necessary considerations for effective management or mitigation of risks.
The framework reflects the cyclical nature of risks and allows for continuous assessment, particularly as the operating environment and competitive landscape is in a constant state of change.
The segments of the Manage Risk cog are as follows: Risk profile: the identification and prioritisation of risks against Policy and standards: the formal articulation of the approach, consistently applied assessment definitions.
This includes an controls and actions for IHG employees when dealing with specific assessment of gross risk the level of risk before controls or actions risks.
These set out accountability for risks, relevant roles and are taken and net risk the level of risk after existing management responsibilities and actions that are measurable or auditable: actions are applied.
Where these management actions are not Ways of working: the practical aspects of risk management, such sufficient, a further target risk level is set.
The risk profile is captured as roles, tools, templates, systems, forums and behaviours, which in heatmaps as shown in the diagram below: help management bring the policies and standards to life: Training and communication: the face-to-face and online learning programmes to provide appropriate skills and knowledge and regular communication to raise awareness: Operate and control: the ongoing operational activities and the G use of tools, systems, checks and control measures to support Gross Risk G Risk level with ineffective compliance with policies and standards and to manage risk: or no controls in place Risk financing: the consideration of the financial impact of risks if N they were to happen and ensuring, where possible, that appropriate N Net Risk Current risk level with coverage is in place, which is usually through insurance: and existing controls in place Review and report: the collection and analysis of management T T information to evaluate the effectiveness of controls and risk Target Risk management, changes in the risk environment and delivery Desired risk level to optimise investment, as required of action plans.
Impact Risk management 39 Business Review: Risk management continued Managing risks in a changing environment We continue to experience a dynamic external risk environment seeing changes or disruptions in political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental risks.
These external factors are expected to remain unsettled for 2013 and the foreseeable future.
The Groups wide geographic spread and fee based model means that in general, events affecting specific hotels or in all but the most significant countries are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups results.
The following sets out our control and risk mitigation activities for those risks which are perceived as most dynamic and thus continuously monitored by senior management.
These complement the wider comprehensive risk factors listed on pages 42 to 44.
Risk description Control and mitigation activities Macroeconomic outlook IHGs scale, diverse portfolio of brands, segments, countries of operation and mix in business model, positions it well against short-term macroeconomic impacts: The current outlook for 2013 may worsen due to escalating impacts of the US fiscal cliff, change IHG continues to monitor macroeconomic conditions and make necessary in leadership in China, uncertainty in the Eurozone adjustments, including cost optimisation programmes where appropriate: and and ongoing unrest in the Middle East.
In addition IHG has developed revenue management tools and guidelines to assist hotels to to trading conditions, the economic outlook also monitor local developments in supply and demand and to inform decisions on affects the availability of capital to current and pricing, promotions, channels and room inventory.
potential owners which may have an impact on existing operations and the health of the pipeline.
Increasing dependence on online travel IHG devotes a significant proportion of its marketing budget to non-traditional agents OTAs tools such as online search engines, its loyalty programmes and web and mobile applications, to encourage guests to book through its direct channels: Travellers now have access to far more information through comparison websites, search engines and the Group continues to invest in developing its own internet presence and aims to online travel agents.
Sales through these channels make scale benefits when working with online business partners: and typically have high commission rates and are taking IHG has implemented a book direct strategy, which has several initiatives including an increasing share of bookings across the travel IHGs Best Price Guarantee for bookings made through IHG branded websites and and hospitality sector, which may have an impact roomkey.
com, a hotel metasearch engine founded by IHG in partnership with upon our brands and profitability.
IT performance, resilience and technology Network stability is a priority for IHGs Global Technology team, which includes change deploying back-up systems, developing robust business continuity practices and working collaboratively with external service providers: IHG is dependent on the stability of its IT infrastructure and must stay abreast of industry IHGs strategic partnerships with leading technology companies enables us to shifts towards mobile applications and cloud innovate, develop and deliver cost-effective solutions that differentiate its brands computing.
Failure to maintain IT performance, and enhance the guest experience: and resilience and technology change could impact our Programme Office has developed a consistent approach to project management guest experience and revenue channels.
to ensure successful delivery of projects, including major technology ones.
Information security and payment card IHG takes information security very seriously and has applied risk-based methods protection to build capability and resilience into our systems and processes for a number of years: The threats against information remain an increasing concern with high-profile losses in many IHG continues to aim to be fully compliant with Payment Card Industry Data big businesses.
The risk ranges from payment card Security Standards PCI-DSS using tools and services from a leading specialist information to other personal or sensitive third party provider with respect to payment card processing: and information which can be held in IT systems, in the Group manages data security incidents through internal committees and paper format on desks and filing cabinets, in voice councils, which work together to contain this risk and reduce the Groups exposure.
and video recordings and in other media.
Sensitive data is tightly controlled through limited and monitored access.
Reputation and brand protection Responsible Business underpins each of our corporate priorities and we continually keep under review our internal policies and communicate these to IHGs reputation and brands are important assets employees throughout our business, thereby working to ensure our employees for the business.
Protecting them is reliant upon work ethically to maintain our trusted reputation: the performance, behaviours and reputation of those working in all hotels and corporate offices led by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, a team of lawyers, compliance and our owners.
Failure to safeguard the reputation specialists, chartered secretaries, internal auditors and risk managers work of IHG and its brands could have severe impacts on together to champion and protect the trusted reputation of IHG and its brands: the Groups future performance.
we continue to ensure that global registered trademark protections for all of our new and existing brands, loyalty programmes and other relevant intellectual property are in place: and we have established an effective internal controls and risk management system.
40 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION k s l i e R t o e Risk description Control and mitigation activities Safety, security and crisis management IHGs proactive, risk-based approach to hotel safety and security is summarised below in the Managing risks in hotels section: There is a constant need to protect the safety and security of our guests, employees and assets IHGs hotel-level safety solutions combine measures to protect the physical against natural disasters and man-made threats.
building and processes and procedures to ensure guest and employee safety: and These include, but are not limited to, exceptional IHG has strengthened the Groups crisis management capability in 2012, including events such as natural catastrophes, civil or the upgrading of the crisis call centre, refreshing our internal toolkit and eLearning political unrest, violence and terrorism, fire and course and strengthening the network of crisis coordinators.
day-to-day accidents and incidents which impact the guest experience.
The external risk environment over the last few years appears to be increasing we have seen an increase in extreme weather and civil and political unrest.
Furthermore, IHGs growth in emerging markets may increase the Groups exposure to the risk of civil and political unrest.
Managing risks in hotels IHGs commitment to risk management safety, security and crisis management in hotels remains fundamental to it being a Responsible Business.
We recognise the difference between a safe hotel and one which is poorly designed or operated.
Therefore we require all hotels to become compliant with a set of global Brand Safety Standards.
IHGs approach has been to enable and support our hotel owners, General Managers and hotel employees to manage risk effectively.
This is accomplished by giving them a systematic approach and framework to follow and by providing them with user-friendly tools to do this.
In 2012, over 50,000 employees used our web-based risk management tools, which include a comprehensive suite of risk management, safety and security training aligned to different roles and competency levels and have reached over 17,000 enrolments.
Hotel Safety Framework The Hotel Safety Framework enables a consistent approach to managing safety and security risk in IHG hotels.
The framework is illustrated by showing two mechanical cogs meshed together showing different types of safety and security risks in the Safe Crisis & Security Incident Hotel cog, against the actions described in the Manage Risk cog.
This framework is actively managed by IHGs risk managers around the world, working with hotels and their management Fire Leisure Safety Safety teams in order to keep IHG hotels safe and secure.
Safety and security is an essential element of being a Responsible Business Risk Policy & Guest Food and our Hotel Safety Framework underpins our hotel operations.
Profile Standards Safety Safety A hotel risk profile is also developed through various methods, Staff Safety including self-assessment, guest satisfaction surveys, design and Review Ways of & Report Working engineering plans, incidents, intelligence gathering, quality audits and risk management reviews.
Hotel management teams discuss Risk Training & issues at monthly safety meetings and action plans are developed.
Financing Comms Risks are prioritised, responsibility is assigned and improvement Operate actions are identified, progressed and monitored.
Action plans are & Control reviewed at appropriate levels throughout the organisation for issues that need to be escalated, either to drive action or to develop common solutions.
External recognition IHG remains a corporate member of the Chartered Institute of IHGs risk management training programme was awarded the Environmental Health CIEH, reflecting the Groups commitment Best Risk Training Programme in 2012 by the StrategicRISK to high standards of environmental health and it offers some European Risk Management Awards: safety training programmes which are accredited by the CIEH.
we were awarded the Bronze award for the Best Use of Technology in Learning in the 2012 Training Journal Awards: and Risk management 41 H g a e f n a a S M Business Review: Risk management continued 2013 risk factors Whilst the Major Risk Review focussed on a number of changing or emerging risks which represent the priorities for today, the Group is subject to a variety of inherent risks which may have an adverse impact on the business operations, financial condition, turnover, profits, brands and reputation.
The following section describes the main risks that could materially affect the Groups business.
The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The risk factors below should be considered in connection with any financial and forward-looking information in this Annual Report and the cautionary statements regarding forward-looking statements contained on page 141.
Strategic risks The Group is exposed The Group is exposed to political, economic and financial market developments such as recession, inflation, to the risks of political availability of credit and currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce income.
The current and economic outlook for 2013 may worsen due to escalating impacts of the US fiscal cliff, change in leadership in China, developments uncertainty in Eurozone and ongoing unrest in the Middle East.
In addition to trading conditions, the economic outlook also affects the availability of capital to current and potential owners, which could impact existing operations and health of the pipeline.
A recession reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects room rates and or occupancy levels and other income-generating activities.
This may result in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reduce the value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or potential owners of hotels franchised or managed by the Group face similar risks which could adversely impact the Groups ability to retain and secure franchise or management agreements.
More specifically, the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy as well as the US dollar.
The Group is exposed The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic to the risk of events or international travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, political or civil unrest, epidemics, that adversely impact travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, increased transportation and fuel costs and natural domestic or disasters, resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors impacting individual hotels.
A decrease international travel in the demand for hotel rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact on the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, inadequate preparation, contingency planning or recovery capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent operational continuity and consequently impact the value of our brands and or the reputation of the Group.
The Group is exposed The future operating results of the Group could be adversely affected by industry overcapacity by number of to the risks of the hotel rooms and weak demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, or other differences between industry supply and planning assumptions and actual operating conditions.
Reductions in room rates and occupancy levels would demand cycle adversely impact the results of Group operations.
The Group is The Group is dependent upon the performance, behaviours and reputation of a wide range of business partners dependent upon a and external stakeholders including, but not limited to, owners, contractors, lenders, suppliers, vendors, joint wide range of external venture partners, agents, third party intermediaries and other business partners.
Further, the number and stakeholders and complexity of interdependencies with stakeholders is evolving.
Breakdown in relationships, poor vendor business partners performance, stakeholder behaviours or adverse reputations could impact on the Groups performance and competitiveness, guest experiences or the reputation of the Group or its brands.
Tactical risks The Group is exposed The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining franchise and to a variety of risks management agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise business model.
related to identifying, Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of suitable franchise, securing and retaining management and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining position of franchise and property owners seeking to become a franchisee or engage a manager.
The terms of new franchise or management management agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements: the Group may not be able agreements to renew existing arrangements on similarly favourable terms or at all.
There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to identify, retain or add franchisees to the IHG System or to secure management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable sites, market saturation, planning and other local regulations or the availability and affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel development opportunities under franchise or management agreements.
In connection with entering into franchise or management agreements, the Group may be required to make investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or guarantee minimum income to third parties.
There are also risks that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support brand improvement initiatives.
This could result in franchisees prematurely terminating contracts which would adversely impact overall System size and the Groups financial performance.
42 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Group is exposed The Group is reliant upon certain technologies, systems and platforms for the running of its business, to inherent risks in particularly those which are highly integrated with business operational processes.
Some of these are relation to changing dependent upon the products and services of third party technology providers.
The failure of any such third party technology and provider to provide products and or perform services could materially adversely impact the Groups business.
systems The Group may also have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently aligned with the needs of the business or responsive to changes in business strategy.
As a result, the Group could adversely affect guest experiences, lose customers, fail to attract new customers, incur substantial costs or face other losses.
Operational risks The Group is reliant Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more of the Groups existing or new brands and or on the reputation fails to sustain the appeal of the Groups existing or new brands to its customers may have an adverse impact of its brands and on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that brand or business.
the protection of In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to its safety or operating and quality standards, its intellectual or the significant regulations applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its franchise and management property rights contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value of the Groups brands.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands is influenced by a number of other factors, some of which may be outside the Groups control, including commoditisation whereby price and or quality becomes relatively more important than brand identifications due, in part, to the increased prevalence of travel comparison websites and online travel agents, consumer preference and perception, or other factors affecting consumers willingness to purchase goods and services provided by the Group.
Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, the protection of its intellectual property poses a risk due to the variability and change of controls, laws and effectiveness of enforcement globally.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
The Group is reliant The value of the Groups brands is partly derived from the ability to drive reservations through its proprietary upon its proprietary HolidexPlus reservations system, a central repository of the Groups hotel room inventories linked reservations system electronically to multiple sales channels including IHGs own websites, call centres and hotels, third party and is exposed to intermediaries and travel agents.
the risk of failures Lack of resilience and operational availability and or the failure of a third party technology provider could lead in the system and to prolonged service disruption and may result in significant business interruption, impact the guest booking increased competition experience and subsequently impact on revenues.
Lack of investment in these systems may also result in in reservations reduced capability, stability and ability to compete.
Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate technology infrastructure strategy and select the right technology partners could erode the Groups long-term competitiveness.
The Group is exposed The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity and confidentiality of information including to the risks related but not limited to, guest and employee credit card, financial and personal data, business performance, financial to information security reporting and commercial development.
The information is sometimes held in different formats such as digital, and data privacy paper, voice and video and could be stored in many places including facilities managed by third party service providers.
The threats towards the Groups information are dynamic including cyber attacks, fraudulent use, loss or misuse by employees and breaches of our vendors security arrangements amongst others.
The legal and regulatory environment and requirements set out by the payment card industry surrounding information security and data privacy across the many jurisdictions in which the Group operates are constantly evolving.
If the Group fails to appropriately protect information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable the release of information through the appropriate channels in a timely and accurate manner, System performance, guest experience and the reputation of the Group may be adversely affected.
This can lead to revenue losses, fines, penalties and other additional costs, including legal fees.
The Group is exposed There is a constant need to protect the safety and security of our guests, employees and assets against natural to a variety of risks and man-made threats.
These include but are not limited to exceptional events such as extreme weather, civil associated with safety, or political unrest, violence and terrorism, serious and organised crime, fraud, employee dishonesty, cyber security and crisis crime, fire and day-to-day accidents, incidents and petty crime which impact the guest or employee experience, management.
could cause loss of life, sickness or injury and result in compensation claims, fines from regulatory bodies, litigation and impact reputation.
Serious incidents or a combination of events could escalate into a crisis which if managed poorly could further expose the Group and its brands to significant adverse reputational damage.
Risk management 43 Business Review: Risk management continued Operational risks continued The Group requires the In order to remain competitive, the Group must employ the right people.
This includes hiring and retaining right people, skills and highly skilled employees with particular expertise or leadership capability.
The implementation of the Groups capability to manage strategic business plans could be undermined by failure to build resilient corporate culture, failure to recruit growth and change or retain key personnel, unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures in the Groups succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group operates are experiencing economic growth and the Group must compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Some emerging markets may not have the required local expertise to operate a hotel and may not be able to attract the right talent.
Failure to attract and retain employees may threaten the success of the Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
The Group is required Governmental regulations affect countless aspects of the Groups business ranging from corporate to comply with governance, health and safety, environmental, bribery and corruption, employment law and diversity, existing and changing disability access, relationships, data privacy and information protection, financial, accounting and tax.
regulations across Regulatory changes may require significant changes in the way the business operates and may inhibit the numerous countries, strategy including the markets the Group operates in, brand protection, and use or transmittal of customer territories and data.
If the Group fails to comply with existing or changing regulations, the Group may be subject to fines, jurisdictions prosecution, loss of licence to operate or reputation damage.
The Group is exposed Certain companies in the Group are the subject of various claims and proceedings.
The ultimate outcome of to the risk of litigation these matters is subject to many uncertainties, including future events and uncertainties inherent in litigation.
In addition, the Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including but not limited to, guests, customers, joint venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, franchisees and or the owners of hotels it manages.
Claims filed in the US may include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Unfavourable outcomes of claims or proceedings could have a material impact on the Groups results of operations, cash flow and or financial position.
Exposure to significant litigation or fines may also affect the reputation of the Group and its brands.
The Group is exposed The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are influenced by a wide variety of factors, including to risks related to the perception of stakeholder groups such as the communities in which the Group operates.
The social and corporate environmental impacts of business are under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk of responsibility damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently responsible practices, ethical behaviour, or fails to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
The Group is exposed While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network through activities that do not involve significant to a variety of risks amounts of its own capital, the Group does require capital to fund some development opportunities and to associated with its maintain and improve owned hotels.
The Group is reliant upon having financial strength and access to financial stability and borrowing facilities to meet these expected capital requirements.
The majority of the Groups borrowing ability to borrow and facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are complied with.
Non-compliance with satisfy debt covenants covenants could result in the lenders demanding repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does not meet market expectations, it may not be able to refinance existing facilities on terms considered favourable.
The Group is exposed The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide to funding risks in current and future pensions for members of its UK pension plans who are entitled to defined benefits.
The relation to the defined contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to making prudent provision for the benefits accruing benefits under its under the plans of the Group.
pension plans In particular, the trustees of IHGs UK defined benefit plan may demand increases to the contribution rates relating to the funding of this plan, which would oblige relevant employers of the Group to contribute extra amounts.
The trustees must consult the plans actuary and principal employer before exercising this power.
In practice, contribution rates are agreed between the Group and the trustees on actuarial advice, and are set for three-year terms.
The funding implications of the last actuarial review are disclosed in the notes to the Group Financial Statements on pages 118 to 121.
The Group may face Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels determined to be appropriate in light of the cost difficulties insuring of cover and the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, forces beyond the Groups control, its business including market forces, may limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain and the Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to such properties.
44 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
