Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47 Principal risks and uncertainties senior executives and their direct reports are required to complete This section sets out a description of the an annual return to confirm that management controls have been principal risks and uncertainties that could effectively applied during the year.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk management and finance.
have a material adverse effect on the The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA, comprising Intertek Groups strategy, performance, senior Intertek executives, complements the work of the Audit results, financial condition and reputation.
The RCA oversees the development of the internal control framework, reviews the risk matrices and risk management procedures, monitors issues and provides guidance Risk framework to management.
The RCA makes recommendations to the The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment Intertek Operations Committee where Group-wide policies are and oversight of the Groups risk management framework identied and develops the Groups integrated responses to which is described in the Corporate Governance Report on changes in the regulatory environment.
Principal risks The Vice President Internal Audit and Assurance, and the Group The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of which, Head of Legal, who report to the Chief Financial officer and including macroeconomic risks, are outside the Groups control.
Chief Executive officer respectively, have accountability for Some risks are particular to Interteks operations and the principal reporting the key risks that the Group faces, the controls over risks of which we are aware are detailed below including a these risks and any mitigating actions or controls in place.
Both commentary on how the Group mitigates these risks.
These roles report to the Audit and Risk Committee and attend the risks and uncertainties do not appear in any particular order Committee meetings during the year.
In addition, both roles meet of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
with the members of that Committee alone at least once a year.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded Risks are formally identied and recorded in a risk register for as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Any of these each operating division and support function.
The risk register is risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the Groups Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
internal audit and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk register, all Operational Risk description Mitigation Reputation risk The Group has in place a comprehensive suite of detailed Quality The risk that there is a breakdown in the Groups quality Management Systems.
Adherence to these is regularly audited and standards which leads to a loss of confidence in the reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
Groups standards and reputation for quality and safety The Group has a well defined Code of Ethics which is communicated service excellence.
to all staff, who undergo regular training.
The Group has a whistleblowing programme, monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee The risk that unethical behaviour by employees or where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or representatives could have an adverse impact on the other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
There is a zero tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so that senior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on a timely basis.
Accreditation risk The Group has extensive quality assurance procedures and controls The Group relies on being awarded and retaining embedded in its operations to ensure that it holds and maintains the appropriate accreditations and affiliations around the necessary accreditations and that the required operational standards world in order to provide its certification services.
Operations are regularly subjected to audit and review by to obtain or retain a particular accreditation could lead external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade to a loss of business in the relevant industry and could affiliations, retailers, manufacturers and clients.
48 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Risk description Mitigation Management risk The Group operates a thorough development and reward programme The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to to identify future senior managers and to retain key staff.
attract and retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge.
Failure to do so could impact our ability to compete effectively.
Political risk The Group closely monitors any incidents of political or social unrest The Group operates in over 100 countries including and where possible, takes mitigating action to prevent loss to the some where political instability can result in disruption Group, including exiting the country if the risk is considered to operations and the change or termination of contracts unacceptable.
The Group maintains close relationships with government In addition, changes to local tax legislation can impact representatives but the risk of adverse government action cannot the Groups effective tax rate.
Legal and regulatory Risk description Mitigation Litigation risk To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group has extensive From time-to-time, the Group is involved in claims and quality assurance procedures and controls in place.
All incidents that lawsuits, including claims for damages, negligence and could potentially result in a claim against the Group are immediately commercial disputes and disputes with current and reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident database so former employees.
There is a risk that a legal dispute that they can be properly managed.
The Group Head of Legal reports could adversely affect the reputation of the Group and any risk of significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee.
External result in significant financial loss.
legal counsel is appointed if appropriate.
The Group mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from litigation by maintaining insurance cover covering potential claims although there is no certainty that this will be sufficient to cover any ultimate loss.
Regulatory risk The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of The Group is subject to local laws and regulations in each local legal and regulatory compliance.
There are also extensive internal of the countries and jurisdictions in which it operates.
compliance and audit systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is These cover all aspects of the Groups operations and taken in areas where regulations are uncertain.
functions including employment legislation, health and The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with safety and taxation.
the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Financial Risk description Mitigation Foreign currency risks The Groups Treasury function has responsibility for managing The Group reports its financial results in sterling but the Groups cash, debt facilities and foreign currency exposures.
a significant majority of the Groups revenue and The Group has established procedures for managing foreign operating costs are incurred in currencies other than currency risk including monitoring foreign currency cash balances sterling.
Accordingly, the Groups profit is exposed on a daily basis and hedging foreign currency exposures on a monthly to exchange rate fluctuations.
The Groups policy is to match the currency of external borrowings to the currency of expected cash flows and the currency of net investments.
All overseas subsidiaries are required to hedge all significant foreign exchange transaction exposures with Group Treasury.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its cash and borrowing facilities, ensuring The Group might be unable to meet its growth plans sufficient liquidity through daily cash forecasting and by maintaining or financial obligations if sufficient funding could not sufficient committed borrowing facilities from a range of investors.
The Group is in regular contact with the banks and capital debt markets, as well as other potential providers of debt to ensure a proper and timely understanding of the availability and pricing of debt funding.
The Groups facilities are managed to ensure that borrowing facilities are of a mixed duration, mitigating the amount of borrowings that mature within a single period.
The Group regularly reviews its interest rate exposures and has a policy to ensure that over one third of its borrowings are on a fixed rate basis.
Financial irregularity risk The Group has established financial and management controls in The Group could suffer financial loss either through place to ensure that the Groups assets are protected from major misappropriation of assets or the misrepresentation financial risks.
A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly financial results are thoroughly reviewed.
The Group also operates a rigorous programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
50 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued The activity of the Nomination Committee During the year, two new Non-Executive Directors were recruited Nomination to the Board.
The Committee appointed Spencer Stuart to assist in the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director as part of the continual refreshing of the skills of the Board.
Spencer Stuart has Committee no other connection with the Company.
The Committee met a number of candidates and then recommended to the Board that Louise Makin and Lena Wilson both be appointed as NonExecutive Directors.
Board Diversity Policy Intertek recognises the benets of having a diverse Board and is committed to achieving a Board which will include and make the Sir David Reid Chairman of the Nomination Committee best use of differences in culture, gender, skills, background, regional and industry experience and other qualities.
All of these Intertek recognises the benets factors will be considered in determining the composition of the Board noting that all Board appointments are made on merit, in of having a diverse board.
the context of the skills and experience the Board as a whole requires for it to be effective.
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee will aim to maintain an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience, and background on the Board, by considering all aspects of diversity.
In identifying suitable candidates to recommend for appointment to the Board, the Committee will consider Membership and attendance of the candidates on merit against objective criteria and with due regard Nomination Committee for the benets of diversity on the Board.
Without seeking to set The Committee is chaired by Sir David Reid and he ensures that a specic goal for female representation on the Board, it is an aim discussions are held around succession and appointments at a of the Board to continue to ensure that the Company has the senior level.
As the Chairman of the Company he is precluded right balance of skills and diversity in all forms and experience.
from any involvement in discussions about a future successor An analysis of the diversity of the Board by gender is provided for his own position.
by the diagram below: Membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during the year: Eligible to Board diversity by gender Name attend Attendance Sir David Reid Chairman 5 5 Edward Astle 11 5 appointed 1 August 2012 Christopher Knight 5 5 Michael Wareing 5 5 2 The role of the Nomination Committee The terms of reference are available on our website at www.
The Committee is responsible for keeping Non-Executive Directors male under review the composition of the Board and succession 2 Executive Directors male to it, and succession planning for senior management positions.
Non-Executive Directors female It makes recommendations to the Board concerning Director appointments having regard to the balance and structure of the Board and the required blend of skills, experience, independence, and diversity.
A job description is prepared for any new Board appointment.
New Non-Executive Directors confirm they have sufficient time to full the commitments of the role.
