Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Risks and Uncertainties The Board has approved the acceptance Introduction to our approach of certain risks which are considered andappetite for risk appropriate to achieve the Groups The effective understanding, acceptance strategic objectives.
The degree of risk and management of risk is fundamental to to be accepted within the business is the long-term success of Invensys.
Every managed on a day-to-day basis through single employee has a role to play in this the Board Delegated Authority levels.
process and the Invensys risk management These provide the framework for informed policy recognises that success relies on the risk taking within the businesses and the ability to work together cohesively to route for escalating decision making up address this.
The consistent application of the Invensys Key developments in the year Code of Conduct see page 36 is a key control in maintaining the strong reputation Our risk management approach is subject of the Group with regard to customers, to continuous review and updating to take regulatory bodies and employees.
account of new and developing issues which might impact our business Our businesses have developed specialist objectives.
The following actions have knowledge in products, services, processes been undertaken during the year to and regions which allows us to understand address significant developments: the associated risks and accept them in aninformed way.
Our approach is The Group has improved its processes encapsulated in the key principles of and procedures to manage major ourrisk management policy: contracts: We have managed the financial To understand the nature and extent pressures on our home markets, ofrisks facing the Group: particularly with regards to our Invensys To accept and manage within the Rail business in Spain, by continuing to business those risks which our grow our presence in emerging markets: employees have the skills and expertise The diverse range of economic, to understand and leverage: geopolitical and accidental external To assess and transfer or avoid those global events has prompted a review and risks which are beyond our appetite updating of the crisis management and forrisk: and business continuity planning across the By consideration of materiality to Group: and establish the authority levels within We have conducted an independent Invensys at which decisions on external review of risk management acceptance and mitigation of these practices and have adopted an risksare taken.
enhanced governance process Each division and key functional to reflect the findings of the review.
department is required to undertake a formal review of risks.
The resulting risk registers are maintained and reviewed on amonthly basis.
These are consolidated and reviewed by the Head of Risk and, onaquarterly basis, a summary of the Groups key risks is then presented to the Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the Group.
It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant operational managers to address the identified risks.
Membership ofthe Risk Committee is set out on page 47.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 37 Risks and Uncertainties continued The risk management process is outlined below.
Risk management process Invensys plc Board Audit Committee Risk Committee Executive directors Group crisis management team Enterprise-wide risk management Monitoring : Control : Function input Identification Analysis Evaluation Mitigation Invensys Operations Management Invensys Rail Invensys Controls Responsibilities and actions Board Audit Committee Business operations Responsibility for determining the nature Receives regular reports on the results Consider existing short-term and and extent of the significant risks it is willing ofinternal and external audits.
to take in achieving the strategic objectives.
Conducts annual assessment of the Consider potential low-frequency, This risk appetite is largely promulgated Groupssystem of risk management high-impact events.
across the Group through the Board andinternal control.
Consider new and emerging risks.
Reviews risk management activities Establish priorities to address and Ultimate responsibility for the system of andprocesses.
internal control and reviewing its Regularly prepare and update the effectiveness.
Risk Committee divisions risk registers.
Approval of the formal review of the risk Formulates strategy and policy based Develop and implement the management framework and underlying on risk appetite and risk exposure.
processes which take account of changes Develops risk framework, receives reports tothe UK Corporate Governance Code.
from divisions, reviews risk management Consideration of the key risks and their structures and compiles the Group risk disclosure in the annual report and accounts.
Prepares reports and recommendations forthe Board through the Audit Committee.
Monitors and coordinates actions to addresskey risks.
38 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Principal risks Risk review process Invensys operates globally in varied Identification Mitigation markets and is affected by a number of Key risks are recorded in the risk registers, Actions are identified to minimise, risks inherent in its activities, not all of their likelihood and impact assessed, manageor respond to the risks.
which are within its control.
Some of these mitigation strategies established and risk risks and uncertainties are common to owners identified.
Monitoring and control other companies, for example: changes Risks are considered against appropriate Risk action plans are reviewed by the ineconomic conditions including the categories including: strategic, people, divisions at least quarterly.
impact of austerity measures and currency financial, operational, reputational, Serious emerging issues are notified environmental and compliance.
immediately to the Groups crisis and interest rate fluctuations: changes in management team.
taxation legislation: the cost of materials: Analysis Key risks are reviewed at each Risk the recruitment and retention of skilled Risks are analysed for likelihood and impact Committee meeting.
personnel: the impact of competition: to determine exposure of the business.
The Audit Committee and the Board andpolitical stability in the countries reviewrisk on a regular basis.
wherewe operate or undertake contracts.
Evaluation The Invensys approach is consistent with ISO Some of these common risks and Risks are reviewed and prioritised against 31000, the international risk management uncertainties are subject to significant the achievement of short-term and standard, and has been subject to external change, the impact of which may be long-term business objectives.
review and updating to take account of difficult to predict.
Invensys has undertaken a review of certain country risks.
This is shown on pages 43 and 44 and uses the Groups revenue by destination as a proxy for the relative level of exposure in each case.
The principal risks which are specific to andmay impact the Group are outlined onpages 40 to 42.
In addition, there may be other risks and uncertainties which areunknown to the Group or which could become material in the future.
These risksmay cause the Groups results to varymaterially from historic and expectedresults.
com 39 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Impact Failure to maintain a competitive and technologically advanced product Failure to keep pace with technological range could reduce margins and revenue growth changes and system or application requirements in the industrial sectors may Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups products result in loss of market share and lower and services are characterised by continually evolving industry standards margins.
Furthermore, delays to development and rapidly changing technology, driven by the demands of the Groups programmes may adversely impact the customers.
As illustrations of this, Invensys Rail continues to invest in the delivery of major projects.
development of the European Rail Traffic Management System ERTMS and Communication Based Train Control CBTC which are becoming globally Mitigation adopted standards of signalling and train control.
Invensys Operations The Group invests in research and development to create new technologies and Management continues to invest in enhancements to its systems, advanced products to sustain or improve its competitive software applications and enterprise control offerings to optimise plant position.
However, all new technologies and performance for our global customers.
products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure including asset impairments, reputational risk and customer claims.
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic planning process.
In addition, the divisions control individual development programmes through a regular review process.
The timing and frequency of substantial contract awards are uneven Impact The timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in volatility in the The revenue of Invensys Rail depends on a small number of large railway order book and our operating performance.
operators, both in our traditional core markets in the UK, Iberia, North Major projects may also impact the business America and Australia and in new markets.
New contract awards are often mix because a substantial element of the associated with major transport infrastructure upgrades, and as a result are contract may be supplied by third parties.
by nature large and infrequent.
In addition, the opportunity to develop control and safety systems for the nuclear industry may Invensys Operations Management is associated with the supply of lead to an increased dependence on a small technology, software and consulting to the oil and gas, chemical and number of major customers for Invensys Operations Management.
Capital expenditure requirements from customers in these industries are often highly cyclical and linked to the international Mitigation supply, demand and pricing of hydrocarbons.
Also the timing of new The Group monitors its order pipeline, sales contract awards in the nuclear industry may be impacted if certain nuclear activity, sales cover in its order book, expected programmes are subject to delay or cancellation.
margins and the impact of potential delays onthe expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
40 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Description of risk Impact Undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the Group to risk of loss The Groups failure to anticipate technical and development problems, estimate costs A significant amount of the Groups business involves long-term projects accurately, control delivery or receive timely that can take many months or even years to complete.
These projects payments may reduce the profitability of such maybe subject to delays and cost overruns due to delays in technology acontract, impact cash collection or result in development, equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work aloss.
stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials or skilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the nature of such projects.
Mitigation The Group has an established process with clear delegated authorities for the approval ofmajor contracts, which includes a review system for the approval of bids submitted to customers.
Contracts with a large monetary value or non-standard contractual terms require Board approval.
During the year certain contract execution issues were identified in Invensys Rails Asia Pacific operations and ournuclear projects in China within Invensys Operations Management.
This has prompted an in-depth internal review with the result that systems have been further improved and additional risk metrics have been established to monitor the execution of such major projects.
These are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Group may be subject to financial loss and or damage to its Impact These occurrences could result in claims, loss reputation as a result of product liability claims of revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with product recalls, litigation, Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or applications, which delays in market acceptance or harm to the may be used in safety-critical applications, could cause injury to persons or Groups reputation for safety and quality.
damage to property and equipment or be the subject of product recalls.
Mitigation Each division has an established quality control function and, if an event occurs, there are processes to investigate and manage the occurrence.
Impact The Group may be exposed to liability through the actions of Given the nature of the Groups business mix, consortium partners, cosource partners or its supply chain aquality or other failure in the supply chain could present a risk to safety and delivery The business activities of the Group are often conducted with consortia, which might have a material adverse effect on with joint and several liability between consortium partners, and or with the Groups business, financial performance cosource partners whose day-to-day management actions are outside and or reputation.
There is also a risk that ofthe control of the Group.
A significant element of the Groups risk profile regulatory non-compliance of partners could is the delivery performance of its supply chain.
These partnerships exist have a material adverse effect on the Groups across our businesses.
For example, Invensys Rail often undertakes reputation.
contracts with consortium partners in traditional core markets and in Mitigation new ordeveloping markets.
Assessment, mitigation and management ofthese risks are addressed by the divisions inconjunction with our legal and risk departments.
In-depth due diligence on partners is undertaken where considered appropriate, and cross-indemnities entered into to mitigate liability.
com 41 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Impact The Group may be exposed to additional liabilities with respect to its With respect to both of the Groups major UKand US pension plans pension plans for its UK and US operations, any decline in the equity market, improvements in The Group has a large level of gross liabilities in respect of its major pension life expectancy, changes in expected morbidity plans relative to its market capitalisation.
rates, long periods of low inflation or deflation or future decreases in interest rates could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding contributions in excess of those currently expected.
Mitigation The Invensys Pension Scheme UK has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its active workforce which provides a level of certainty with respect to the valuation of the plans liabilities.
In addition, its investment policy hasbeen established to address the need to match the scheme assets and liabilities as far asis realistically possible.
The current Invensys Pension Scheme UK deficit funding contribution schedule was agreed on the basis of a valuation undertaken at 31 March 2011, and anticipates deficit recovery contributions being made on asix-monthly basis until March 2017.
In addition, the Invensys Pension Plan US was recently fide-risked by reducing the number ofdeferred participants.
TheGroup regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US plans.
The Group is subject to ongoing litigation and environmental liabilities Impact All of these liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions and contingencies, As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of businesses, and there can be no assurance that the the Group has, or may incur, certain liabilities in relation to environmental liabilities will not be substantially higher or claims including the cost associated with the remediation of contaminated become payable sooner than anticipated, or sites no longer owned by the Group, disputed taxes, litigation including that the provisions in the Groups accounts in personal injury claims arising from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica, respect of any such liabilities will be sufficient.
indemnity claims and other disposal costs relating to the disposed businesses.
These risks have receded over time as warranties and indemnities in relation Mitigation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes have been settled and The Group continually monitors the remaining remediation work on contaminated sites has been completed.
The Group liabilities and has established performance indicators to support regular reporting to the also has environmental liabilities in relation to the remediation of vacant sites Board.
The indicators include cash spend, which it owns.
provisions, insurance recoveries and estimated exposures.
The Group regularly reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations to limit the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
42 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Country risks Invensys is a global organisation with its Invensys has undertaken a review of the own facilities, supply chain and customers following country risks in respect of those in many countries across the world.
There territories where we earn revenue: are diverse country risks to address in Financial risk utilising the rating categories certain core markets, including financial published by credit agency Moodys: risks relating to the Eurozone crisis, and Political stability risk utilising the risk risks in new and developing markets, categories published by Control Risks including Asia, South America and the Group: Middle East.
Security risk utilising the risk categories published by Control Risks Group: and Corruption risk utilising the risk ratings published by Transparency International.
Revenue by destination has been analysed and categorised in accordance with rating criteria obtained from appropriate external 1 sources.
The charts overleaf illustrate the profile of country risk for the Groups revenue by destination and outline the broad mitigation actions in place to address these.
1 Financial risk rating categories are based on the Sovereign Rating lists for Government Bonds using information freely available from Moodys at www.
com Political stability risk and security risk categories are as published by Control Risks Group at www.
com Adapted from Corruption Perception Index Methodology Copyright 2011 Transparency International: the global coalition against corruption.
For more information visit http: www.
org Ratings are based on information available on 31March2012.
com 43 Risks and Uncertainties continued Description of risk Financial risk Financial risk exposure % The global economy has continued to experience a sovereign debt crisis with Extreme 0.2 particular concern within the Eurozone.
Invensys maintains oversight of its exposures High 2.4 Medium 2.1 by analysing the revenue by destination for all territories against published rating 1 Low 11.5 categories.
This is summarised in the adjacent chart.
Insignicant 83.8 Mitigation Key financial risks including liquidity needs, partner supply chain exposure and cash management have been identified.
Measures have been taken to minimise exposures and crisis management plans have been established to respond to developing scenarios.
Political stability risk Political stability risk exposure % Political risk considers the likelihood of state or political influences negatively Extreme 1.2 affecting business operations in a country through regime instability or direct High 0.4 Medium 13.1 indirect interference.
The adjacent chart illustrates the Invensys exposure using 1 Low 82.2 the country ratings as published by Control Risks Group.
Insignicant 3.1 Mitigation Invensys analyses current and developing issues and maintains crisis management plans designed to respond to threats and safeguard the business operations.
Security risk Security risk exposure % Security risk considers the likelihood of state or non-state engagement in actions that Extreme 1.2 harm the financial, physical and human assets of a company and the extent to which High 2.3 Medium 16.8 the state is willing and able to protect those assets.
The adjacent chart illustrates Low 78.8 the Invensys exposure using the security country risk ratings published by Control Insignicant 0.9 1 Risks Group.
Mitigation Invensys analyses current and developing issues and maintains crisis management plans designed to safeguard people, assets and the business.
Corruption risk anti-bribery compliance Corruption risk exposure % 1 The Corruption Perception Index published by Transparency International ranks Highly corrupt 0-2 score 1.2 countries according to their perceived levels of public sector corruption.
A score of 10 2-4 score 21.3 is considered very clean and a score of zero is highly corrupt.
Invensys has considered 4-6 score 8.3 its revenue by destination against this index for all territories and this is shown on the 6-8 score 51.1 adjacent chart.
8-10 score 18.1 Very clean Mitigation Invensys has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and maintains a programme of communication and education for employees and partners.
Particular focus is appropriate in higher-risk territories to ensure that Group policy is understood and enforced.
1 See footnote on previous page.
David Thomas Chief Financial Officer 44 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Governance 46 Our Board of Directors 48 Corporate Governance 54 Nominating Committee Report 56 Audit Committee Report 60 Remuneration Report 75 Directors Report 78 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect ofthePreparation of the Accounts Compliance The Corporate Governance report on pages 48 to 59 hasbeen prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2010 the Code.
The Corporate Governance report, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74, describes how the main principles set out in the Code have been applied.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules is shown in the Directors Report on pages 75 and 76 and is incorporated into the Corporate Governance report by reference.
A printed copy of the Code can be obtained free of charge from FRC publications by telephone 44 0 20 8247 1264, email cch@wolterskluwer.
com The Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74 has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Ernst & Young LLP has audited the contents of the Remuneration Report to the extent required Invensys Controls by the Companies Act the tabular information on pages 71 Best-in-class value-enhancing components and devices across a number of industries, to 74 relating to directors remuneration and directors including energy management for the commercial refrigeration market in the US.
interests in shares and all share incentive plans.
