Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Group internal audit Managing risk AMEC operates in some 40 countries globally, serving a broad range of markets and customers.
As such, the group is subject to certain general and industryspecific risks.
Where practicable, the group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of risk through effective risk management and risk transfer practices.
review risk management policies, procedures Risk management process andprocesses A consistently applied methodology is used at project, operating company and group levels to identify the key review the AMEC plc risk register and make risks that could have a significant impact on the ability of recommendations as appropriate AMEC to achieve its objectives.
These are recorded in risk review, approve and make recommendations registers and evaluated to determine the likely impact and inrespect of those risks which AMEC is willing probability of occurring.
toacceptor assume in the ordinary course of Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate business 'riskappetite' risksthat are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners are review any issues raised by other committees of identified and given responsibility for ensuring actions theboard that impact on the risk profile of AMEC areimplemented with appropriate review dates.
review any emerging risks and any potential impact The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least they may have on risk appetite quarterly with the relevant risk owners.
review and consider reports on key risk issues such Reporting and monitoring asnew business and geographical locations for Reporting directly to the board, the risk management operations or projects committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets atleast twice each year to: issue risk reports and make recommendations totheboard.
Roles and responsibilities Plc Risk oversight Board n ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place n ensure management is positioned Management teams Chief Executive Head of Risk to identify and respond to risk functional heads Management risk committee Legacy n ensure relevant information is raised to the appropriate level.
Business units Business Unit Management teams Risk owner risk manager Business unit Head of functional heads n participate in the identification of risk heads Commercial n participate in the identification of risk management action plans n ensure action plans are implemented n monitor and report on risk status.
Operating units Operating Unit Management teams Operating unit functional heads Head of heads Commercial Risk co-ordinator n ensure risk management process is followed n facilitate risk management reviews Projects n collate and issue risk management Project team Project manager Project risk reports registers owners n promote learning and consistency.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 21 Managing risk continued Reporting and monitoring continued The table shows AMECs principal business and strategic risks.
Each is specific to the group and could have a material impact on it.
Actions have been taken to mitigate these risks and these are also shown.
Principal business and strategic risks m Other financial risks are shown on page 95 Risk Mitigation Geopolitical and economic conditions AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North AMEC seeks to maintain a balanced geographic presence and, through America and is therefore particularly affected by acquisitions and organic growth, will continue to increase its exposure to political and economic conditions inthose markets.
otherattractive regions of the world.
Recent instability and heightened security concerns The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a downturn and inNorth Africa may hinder growth opportunities in affecting the demand for AMECs services has been addressed, as far as thisregion.
practicable, by seeking to maintain a balanced business portfolio in terms ofgeographies, markets, clients and service offering business model.
Changes in general economic conditions may influence customers decisions on capital investment and or In light of continuing global economic uncertainties, steps have been taken to asset maintenance, which couldlead to volatility in the assess and monitor any potential impact on AMECs business opportunities and development of AMECs order intake.
These may also address potential increased supply chain and, more broadly, counterpartyrisk.
lead to changein the customer base, competition m Further details on our markets and sectors can be found from page 12 andintheway customers procure the services weprovide.
Major third party environmental event A major third party event resulting in significant The impact of such an event would be mitigated by closely monitoring the environmental damage may lead to adverse developments of such an event, the concerns of stakeholders and other developments in one of AMECs key markets.
interested parties and by actively engaging with local regulators and maintainingclose communication with customers.
Changes in commodity prices A sustained and significant reduction in oil and gas or This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced business portfolio of commodity prices could havean adverse impact on the geographies, markets, clients and service offering.
level of customer spending in AMECs markets and consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
Restructure to focus on expansion of global footprint AMEC recently restructured the business to focus on Closely defined roles and responsibilities have been identified across operations delivering growth generally and expanding the global and functions with a formal review process initiated to monitor performance and footprint specifically into Growth Regions.
A failure of ensure appropriate remedial actions are put in place without delay.
this strategy could result in failure to meet targeted AMECs Vision 2015 strategy identified, by geography, the opportunities and risks growth levels.
across the markets in which AMEC operates.
The strategy is regularly reviewed for continued relevance and covers both organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
Mergers and acquisitions A failure to identify, complete and successfully integrate The Vision 2015 strategic plan includes a structured internal review of identified target acquisitions represents a risk togrowth.
target acquisitions, followed by an established and robust due diligence and integration planning process.
Project delivery Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer AMEC operates a system of globally applied policies and procedures.
These, expectations on project delivery could result in damage combined with comprehensive management oversight, the risk management to reputation, loss of repeat business and potentially process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, lead to litigation and or claims against AMEC.
mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
Pensions AMEC operates a number of defined benefits pension This risk to AMECs pension schemes is mitigated by: schemes, where careful judgement is required in maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time determining theassumptions for futuresalary and taking advice from independent qualified actuaries and other pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment professional advisers returns and member longevity.
There is a risk of agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees underestimating thisliability.
close monitoring of changes in the funding position, with reparatory action agreed with the trustees in the event that a sustained deficitemerges.
m See note 14 on page 89 for further details on our pension schemes 22 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Risk continued Mitigation continued Health, safety and security AMEC is involved in activities and environments In order to control risk and prevent harm, AMEC is focused on achieving the that have the potential to cause serious injury highest standards of health and safety management.
This is achieved through to personnel or damage to property or the setting of an effective health and safety policy and ensuring effective leadership environment anddamage to our reputation.
and organisational arrangements are in place to deliver this policy.
The personal security risk to AMEC employees while travelling or working inpotentially hazardous locations is mitigated by providing professional advice and support, together with appropriate contingencyplanning.
Health and safety performance is regularly reviewed against agreed targets tofacilitate continual improvement.
m The KPIs on page 20 show details of our recent performance Legacy risk Litigation and business claims from divested The established legacy team manages these claims with internal and external andnon-core businesses remain a risk to AMEC.
The aim is to seek cost-effective management of litigation and promote commercially sensible settlements whereappropriate.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment may require skills that are not common to the AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues that are believed to be adequate restofthe company.
and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses whichare likely to have a material impact.
Specialist teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in asrequired.
Information technology IT AMEC is exposed to the risks that the IT systems AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate the risk of systems on which it relies fail and or that sensitive data failure and data loss, including systems back-up procedures and disaster recovery held by the group is lost.
plans and also has appropriate virus protection, network security controls and encryption of mobile devices.
Staff recruitment and retention An inability to attract and retain sufficient high-calibre This risk is mitigated with a clear Human Resources HR strategy, which is employees could become a barriertothe continued aligned to the business strategy and focused on attracting, developing and success and growth ofAMEC.
retaining the best people for AMEC.
It is underpinned by an employee framework which describes how we manage our people consistently.
In addition, there is a continual review of compensation and benefits to ensure sector and geographic competitiveness and there are localised recruitment teams capable of recruiting large numbers into AMEC using common systems.
AMEC Academy delivers development activities to enhance delivery and prepare employees for more advanced roles.
Ethical breach A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance AMEC has a number of measures in place across the group to mitigate with laws or regulations could potentially lead to this risk, including: damage to AMECs reputation, fines, litigation and embedded policies and procedures claims for compensation.
Code of Business Conduct segregation of duties management oversight financial and operational controls independent whistle-blowing mechanism appointment of ethics officers anti-fraud and other internal audits legal team advice ethics training programme oversight by the ethics committee of the board.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 23
