ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance & Financials Risks and Uncertainties HILL risks The Board regularly reviews the Risk management process risk management framework, its Strategic ITVs risk management approach is risks dynamic and continues to be reviewed content and its operations.
Board is responsible for establishing a robust and appropriate process, Process level risks Our approach covers risks at all levels including regularly reviewing the risks of the organisation and examines themselves.
The Audit Committee The strategic risks are mapped business risks on both a top down keeps the effectiveness of the risk to the strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 and bottom up basis.
The approach management process under review.
considers risks in three core groups: performance indicators.
All strategic The Board continues to review the risks are owned by a member of the F High Impact, Low Likelihood HHILLI appropriate risk appetite for certain Management Board.
risks of low inherent likelihood risk types to ensure ITV is carrying an but where there would be major acceptable level of risk.
In 2012 all the HILL and strategic risks consequences were the risk to were reassessed and regned to further materialise: The Management Board has overall improve our risk management.
Process responsibility for the content and F Strategic risks would impact the level risks are subject to ongoing review operation of the risk management successful execution of the strategy: by internal audit.
framework and performs regular reviews and of both strategic and HILL risks.
Each F Process level risks embedded ITVs risk monitoring and mitigation strategic risk has been mapped to into everyday activity within the process is embedded in the running one of the four key strategic priorities organisation.
and review of the business.
Risks and, where possible, assigned key risk are primarily controlled through the indicators.
Where appropriate, the key risk management process in place.
risk indicators are aligned to our key Mitigating actions have also been identiged for each of the risks.
High Impact, Low Likelihood risks Risk Theme Risk Financial ITV loses its credit status or lines of funding with existing lenders or there is a collapse of a major bank impacting gnancial arrangements availability of credit.
There is a major collapse in investment values leading to a material impact on the pension degcit.
Financial A signigcant event removes key management from the business on a long-term or permanent basis.
Operational An event with public interest that causes signigcant reputational and brand damage.
Reputation There is a major health and safety incident that results in a signigcant loss of human life.
Reputation A major incident results in ITV being unable to continue with scheduled broadcasting for a sustained period.
Reputation Reputation There is a signigcant or unexpected change in regulation or legislation.
com Stock code: ITV Cr Cre ea at te e a a lea lean n, cr cre ea ativ tivel ely y Maximise audience and Drive new revenue streams by Build a strong international 1 1 1 1 2 2 4 dynamic dynamic and and ggt tPPfo for rPPpurpo purpose se revenue share from our existing 3 exploiting our content across content business or organisa ganisation tion free-to-air broadcast business multiple platforms, free and pay Strategic risks The key strategic risks are those that impact the successful execution of the strategy and as a result require regular Management Board monitoring.
All of the strategic risks identiged have been mapped to the four strategic priorities of the Transformation Plan and have been grouped by key risk themes.
Risk Theme Risk Strategic Priorities The Market There is a major decline in advertising revenues and ITV does not build sufgcient non-NAR revenue streams thereby signigcantly impacting ITVs overall gnancial performance.
The television market moves signigcantly towards pay television as a preferred The Market model, negatively impacting ITVs free-to-air revenues.
A faster than expected shift to Video on Demand, catch up or other new The Market technologies causes a sustained loss of advertising revenue.
People ITV lacks adequate management capability and creative talent.
ITV employees are not sufgciently engaged in the business to deliver the People strategy.
The extensive degree of change that the business will undergo will overload a People small number of key people.
Organisation Structure The business continues to work in silos, resulting in sub-optimal decisions being made which impacts execution of the strategy.
Processes A signigcant and high progle incident He.
g. a transmission incident major Organisation Structure regulatory breachI causes signigcant reputation damage to ITV.
Processes There is a signigcant loss of programme rights or ITV fails to identify and obtain Organisation Structure the optimal rights packages.
Processes ITV fails to create and own a sufgcient number of hit programmes formats.
Organisation Structure Processes ITV fails to invest in, develop or operate effectively international businesses.
Organisation Structure Processes ITV loses a signigcant volume of personal or sensitive data due to an internal Organisation Structure breach.
Processes Late delivery of new technology platforms, and heavy reliance placed on legacy Technology technologies, negatively impacts ITVs ability to achieve its strategic aims.
Current technological environment and business processes are not sufgcient to Technology support the growth in Online, Pay and Interactive services.
Technology ITV fails to ensure appropriate business continuity planning and resilience within its core systems, processes, platforms and technology infrastructure.
There is a sustained cyber viral attack causing prolonged system denial or Technology major reputational damage.
49 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview Pictured: Vera Photo by ITV Rex Features ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV Directors Report Responsibility.
51 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Responsibility Operating Responsibly Our Corporate Responsibility Setting performance targets strategy aims to grow our business where feasible and ensuring by strengthening stakeholder pride transparency on results: Our ccess Services team, SignPost, have delivered and loyalty in ITV, whilst continuing Supporting new and diverse an award winning website SignedStories.
com, making books accessible to deaf and hearing to broadcast and operate responsibly.
talent and improving access to children.
Our visibility and reach comes with the industry: and signigcant responsibility and our Recognising and rewarding actions impact the lives of millions employees individual of viewers and users of our services, contributions and impact on the therefore it is imperative that we community and environment.
For information demonstrating the At a minimum we aim to comply with impact of our Corporate Responsibility our regulators, fulgl our legal obligations in the year, the drivers of these and our own policies and procedures.
priorities, and specigc aims and However, as well as mitigating risks measures around the strategy, please to the business we are also looking visit our Corporate Responsibility website: for opportunities to benegt our wider www.
com responsibility community and contribute to the In 2013s Workplace E uality Index we remain in the top 100 index and feature as the only Broadcaster.
sustainability of the industry for ITV and Performance summary others.
We have an internal Corporate We recognise the importance of Responsibility governance structure understanding and evaluating the and company wide policies to provide a impact our Companys operations have strategic and consistent approach to our on its people, customers, suppliers, responsibilities.
Specigc performance the community and the environment.
targets and indicators are used alongside Below is a brief summary of some of external benchmarking tools to review our policies, performance indicators, progress.
For further details please see the Priorities Corporate Responsibility website.
Our approach to Corporate Responsibility is to utilise our position People and diversity in the heart of our communities to Retaining and attracting talent is drive our key priorities: key to the success of ITV and as such it is both a risk and a priority.
It is Responsible reach: therefore imperative that we provide rewards and opportunities for work F Utilising ITVs unique position as a and development as well as protection regional and national broadcaster from harm and discrimination.
By and the reputation of well-known making our people feel proud of ITV, programmes as a vehicle to raise they are ultimately more engaged and awareness and change consumer committed to working for us.
behaviour, through national campaigns and regional stories.
Operating responsibly: F Being seen as a responsible industry leader by demonstrating the link between responsibility and a sustainable future.
In particular: Utilising external benchmark tools to improve ITVs position and working cross-industry to share best practice: 52 ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV We continue to measure and listen Health and safety to our people through our employee The Health and Safety H&S of survey and employee engagement has employees, contractors and visitors increased again in 2012 to 88% from at ITV is always a high priority.
The 85% in 2011. signigcant loss of human life as the result of a major H&S incident has Diversity in skills, experience and in the been identiged as a specigc risk to make-up of our workforce is essential the organisation.
The H&S team to produce creative content and quality continue to use a management Two Tick Disability symbol awarded for the sixth programmes that appeal to as wide an system that meets the specigc year running demonstrating our commitment around Disability in recruitment and people.
It is in our interest risk progle of the business which is to invest in programme making outside supported by a comprehensive training London and to ensure we proactively programme and communicated across seek to build an inclusive workforce the business.
that rehects our potential viewership.
Health and safety performance Our diversity policy rehects the indicators Equality Act 2010 and aims for equality around gender, Marital and Civil 2012 2011 Partnership, race, religion and belief, Lost time accidents reported under disability, age, sexual orientation and RIDDOR 5 8 gender reassignment.
ITV is recognised Major accidents as as a positive employer, holding the defined by RIDDOR 3 2 This year we were awarded a Big Tick by Business Two-Tick disability symbol and in the Community for our Work Inspiration Fatal accidents 0 0 maintaining its status as the only programme for young people.
As of 6 April 2012, RIDDORs over-three-day injury broadcaster in Stonewalls Top 100 reporting requirement changed to over-seven-day Workplace Equality Index.
reporting our ggures rehect this change.
For more detail on ITVs training and Workplace profile % new talent programmes, diversity and equal opportunities activities, health 2012 2011 and safety management system and Ethnic minority implementation visit the Corporate employees 10.8 9.1 Responsibility website.
Employees with a disability 2.4 2.9 Employees aged over 50 16 15 Lesbian, gay and bisexual employees 9.7 4.9 Percentages based on those who declared relevant information approximately 75% of workforce.
Pictured: We invest signicantly in opportunities and development of new talent.
62% of ITVs apprentices who completed their training in 2012 gained employment with us 53 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Responsibility Operating Responsibly continued We continue to deliver access services suppliers, in particular those with Customers across our family of broadcast channels whom we work regularly, such as Our key customers are our viewers beyond the targets set by Ofcom suppliers of outsourced services and across various platforms, our for subtitling, signing and audio key suppliers of programming and advertisers and other broadcasters description.
For more information broadcasting programme rights.
on our services, targets and how ITV Managing supplier relationships is has maximised its in-house facility a key part of our business strategy We seek to maximise audience and SignPost to provide award-winning and is the responsibility of both the revenue share from our free-to-air community services, visit the Corporate commissioning and commercial teams business, as laid out in Priority 2 of the Responsibility website.
and our central procurement team.
To manage the risk and grow our revenue it is essential Access services for ITV We have a variety of suppliers who are that we understand our viewers, % of programmes key to the business.
A number of the meet their expectations and deliver Companys major suppliers are involved maximum value both to them and the 2012 2011 in the broadcast of ITVs family of advertisers.
Subtitling 90% 98% channels and include Arqiva, SES Astra Audio description 10% 19% and BT.
Other key suppliers include: All UK programmes comply with the Signing 5% 6% Mace Group, Gerald Eve LLP, Accenture Ofcom Broadcasting Code in relation to and Ericsson.
Suppliers We conduct business with a large Key suppliers of programming and In 2012 Ofcom found 6 breaches of variety of suppliers and endeavour broadcasting programme rights include the code compared to 12 in 2011.
All to do business on terms that are ITN, who provide ITVs national news breaches are responded to and where considered fair and reasonable.
To programmes, Fremantle who produce breaches reveal shortcomings in our ensure we trade responsibly, we Britains Got Talent and The X Factor editorial or compliance processes we draw up contracts with suppliers, for ITV, the Football Association, NBC will ensure changes are implemented.
which incorporate industry-standard Universal Studios and Arena Television.
We continue to use a formal approach It is in the Companys best interest to gathering feedback through a to ensure we have transparent and Vision Panel and regional audience effective relationships with panels.
We also have a structured viewer feedback process.
All queries are escalated to the person accountable and responded to.
Pictured: Text Santa Text Santa is also a true example of One ITV where ITV Broadcast, ITV Studios and colleagues come together to build awareness for certain charities and inspire social action within our community.
com Stock code: ITV awareness for certain charities and Community and Environment inspire social action within our local Charitable giving Our ofgces and productions have a direct communities.
As a broadcaster and producer of impact on the environment through some of the nations most popular energy consumption, water use and More information on activity within programmes, we recognise the power waste production.
We are also indirectly the community, charitable giving, of our brand, our mass audience appeal responsible for the environmental donations raised and the organisations and our ability to champion issues on a impacts of commissioned programmes, which we support can be found national level.
and of the suppliers that provide us with on our Corporate Responsibility goods and services.
During 2012, our activities have ranged from charitable giving to donations for In compliance with the Governments It is the Companys policy not to make specigc programmes and campaigns.
Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy cash contributions to any political In all, ITV has contributed 1.7 million in Efgciency Scheme we are committed party.
However, within the normal cash 2011: 1.5 million and 3.3 million to reducing our environmental activities of the Groups national and in kind 2011: 3.4 million.
Year on year our regional news-gathering operations environmental performance indicators there may be occasions when an In 2012, we have used our ability to have improved, except for our C0 2 activity may fall within the broader engage viewers to help to create emissions from business travel which degnition of political expenditure visibility, loyalty and progle for a has increased as we have become a contained within the Companies Act selected number of charities who we more international business.
Shareholder authority for such work in partnership with.
This helped to expenditure was given at the 2011 raise over 10.5 million for independent Our aim is to responsibly work towards Annual General Meeting.
However, charities, through our call to action a more sustainable future, reducing cost during 2012 the Group made no campaigns such as Text Santa, which and building our brand reputation in payments falling within this degnition we launched in 2011, and Soccer Aid.
Our Environmental policy and 2011: nil.
Text Santa is also a true example of One plans on how we are working to achieve ITV where ITV Broadcast, ITV Studios our aim can be found on the Corporate and colleagues come together to build Responsibility website.
1 Environmental performance indicators 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total CO emissions from business travel 2 tonnes 7,884 4,921 5,774 6,831 2 Total CO emissions tonnes 36,748 43,051 44,427 46,383 2 Total waste tonnes 1,256 1,724 1,807 2,195 Total waste recycled 72% 85% 60% 65% 3 Total water use m 60,502 81,891 87,017 86,656 1 UK only, assistance with data completion by Utilyx Ltd independent energy consultants.
2 Calculated in accordance with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology.
Visit the Corporate Responsibility website @ www.
com responsibility 55 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Pictured: Dancing On Ice Photo by ITV Rex Features 56 ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV Directors Report Governance 57 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
