Corporate governance statement continued Colleague engagement, retention and capability Principal risks & uncertainties Risk The risk management process is closely aligned to accelerating our The Group employs around 150,000 colleagues who are critical growth plan, which focuses on growing the business through the to the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good addition of new range, space, business development, channels to relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training and market and property management.
Risk is an inherent part of doing development is essential to the efficiency and sustainability of the business.
The system of risk management used to identify the principal Groups operations.
risks the Group faces and to develop and closely monitor key controls, is described on page 48.
The management of these risks is based on Mitigation a balance of risk and reward determined through careful assessment The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits of both the potential likelihood and impact.
Consideration is given to packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive both reputational as well as financial impact, recognising the significant with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, risks identified by the Board and the corresponding mitigating controls communications with trade unions and regular communication are set out below in no order of priority.
of business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to understand and respond to colleagues needs.
Processes are also Business continuity and major incidents response in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning Risk throughout the business.
A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the Groups ability to trade.
Data security Risk Mitigation It is essential that the security of customer, colleague or company Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior confidential data is maintained.
A major breach of information security representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and could have a major impact on the business.
have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
Mitigation The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure that Various information security policies and standards are in place the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for purpose.
which focus on encryption, network security, access controls, system In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated with BC security, data protection and information handling.
A review of key and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned or unforeseen contractors across the organisation who hold sensitive customer events, the Business Continuity Management Team is convened at or colleague data is ongoing, and progress is monitored by the short notice to manage any associated risk to the business.
A risk-based security testing approach across Sainsburys IT infrastructure and applications is in All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be place to identify and remediate ongoing vulnerabilities.
made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
Environment and sustainability Business strategy Risk Risk Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
The key If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the environmental implement its strategies effectively, the business may be negatively impact of the business with a focus on reducing packaging and new ways impacted.
Risks to delivering the strategy need to be properly of reducing waste and energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
understood and managed to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Mitigation A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the Mitigation Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility A clear strategy remains in place with five key areas of focus: Steering Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our customers expectations in this area.
Further details are included in Great food: the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 44 to 45.
Compelling general merchandise and clothing: Financial strategy and treasury risk Complementary channels and services: Risk Developing new business: and The main financial risks are the availability of short and longGrowing space and creating property value.
term funding to meet business needs, counterparty liabilities and fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates which continue to Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, be impacted by the turbulence in the financial markets.
such as the availability of suitable new store sites, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the overall strategy is reviewed at the Mitigation two-day Strategy Conference.
The Operating Board also holds The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups regular sessions to discuss strategy.
This activity is supported by liquid resources, funding requirements, and interest rate and currency a dedicated strategy team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 28 on pages 99 and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders to 104.
The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
50 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued Health and safety people and product Regulatory environment Risk Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum of regulatory is of utmost importance.
In addition it is paramount to maintaining the requirements.
Key areas subject to regulation include planning, confidence our customers have in our business.
competition and environmental issues, employment, pensions and tax laws and regulations over the Groups products and services.
Mitigation Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to civil and Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls or criminal legal prosecution and fines or imprisonment imposed required to manage health and safety and product safety risks on Sainsburys or our colleagues.
In addition, a breach could lead to across the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place Mitigation in our depots, stores and offices to the controls in place to ensure people and product safety and integrity.
There is an established governance process in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure that all existing and Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and forthcoming regulations are complied with.
Regular reviews are internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and completed across the estate to ensure compliance and that training safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource needs are addressed as required.
is dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Safety Committee and specialist teams including Convenience Risk Processes for monitoring and embedding training for key new Managers and Logistics and Commercial Safety Specialists.
legislation are in place and Sainsburys also has a dedicated internal legal department to provide the relevant colleagues impacted by the regulations with advice and guidance.
IT systems and infrastructure Risk Trading environment The Group is reliant on its IT systems and operational infrastructure in Risk order to trade efficiently.
Inadequate systems or failure of key systems could have a significant impact on our business.
Effective management of the trading account is key to the achievement of performance targets.
The continued challenging economic environment and competitive retail pressure could affect Mitigation the performance of the Group in terms of sales, costs and operations, The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity and through: efficiency of its systems including detailed recovery plans in the event of a significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades to systems the ongoing challenges to household disposable income: are ongoing to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes, rigorous testing is competitor pricing positions: completed.
the reduction of the industry profit pool in the last year: and commodity costs driving up the cost of goods.
Pension risk Risk There is also a risk of supplier or other counterparty failure, with possible operational or financial consequences for the Group.
The Group operates a number of pension arrangements which includes a defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to risks in relation to its liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, Mitigation inflation and future salary increases, and to risks regarding the value We continue to focus on delivering quality products with universal of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
appeal, at a range of price points ensuring value for all our customers.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our key customer Mitigation metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across competitors, active management of price positions, development of An investment strategy is in place which has been developed by the sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, to mitigate the While external cost pressures including oil-related costs, commodity volatility of liabilities, to diversify investment risk and to manage cash.
pricing and business rates affect our business, the Group continues to work hard to mitigate the impact of these cost pressures on customers and on our overall profitability through the delivery of cost savings.
Sainsburys undertakes credit checks on suppliers and maintains regular, open dialogue with key suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 51
