CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Remuneration committee formal announcements relating to the financial The Companys remuneration committee is chaired by performance of the Company Debra van Gene and comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Considers the findings of the internal audit report and Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt.
The directors report management responses at the half year and year end on remuneration is set out on pages 52 to 57.
Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems Final review of the Companys statement on internal The terms of reference of the remuneration committee control systems, before endorsement by the board are available on the Companys Web site.
Reviews any aspect of the accounts or the Companys control and audit procedures, the interim and final audits Nomination committee and any other matters which the auditors may consider The non-executive directors Debra van Gene, Ensures that all matters, if appropriate, are raised and Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt brought to the attention of the board meet regularly and consider, among other matters, board Reviews all risk-management systems adopted and appointments and the re-election of directors.
No director implemented by the Company is involved in any decision about his or her own re-appointment.
In carrying out these activities, the The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated non-executive directors follow the guidelines of the by the secretary of the committee to all members of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators board.
At the annual general meeting of the Company, ICSA and comply with the Code.
representatives of the audit committee are available to answer questions on financial control and reporting.
Company secretary All directors have access to the advice of the company The audit committee is aware of the Companys process secretary, responsible to the board for ensuring that regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed its procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of effectiveness.
the company secretary are reserved for consideration by the board as a whole.
Procedures are in place for seeking During the year, the Company made limited use of independent professional advice, at the Companys expense.
specialist teams from  LLP, relating to accounting and tax services.
The fees paid to Relations with shareholders  LLP for non-audit services were The board takes considerable measures to ensure that 93,000 2011: 133,000.
The use of all board members are kept aware of both the views  LLP for non-audit work is of major shareholders and changes in the major monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary shareholdings of the Company.
Efforts made independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Where the to accomplish effective communication include: auditors provide non-audit services, their objectivity and independence are safeguarded by the use of different Annual general meeting, considered to be an important teams.
See note 2 on page 10 for a breakdown of forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board auditors remuneration of audit and non-audit services.
Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated Following a review by the audit committee, the board to shareholders agreed, in September 2012, to recommend to shareholders, Any significant changes in shareholder movement at the annual general meeting, the reappointment of the being notified to the board by the company secretary, external auditors for a period of one year.
when necessary The company secretary maintaining procedures and The audit committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness of agreements for all announcements to the stock market the external auditors and audit process, on the basis of A programme of regular meetings between investors meetings and internal review with finance and other senior and directors of the Company executives.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditors, the audit committee considers several factors.
Risk management These include the standing, experience and tenure of the The board is responsible for the Companys external auditors, the nature and level of services provided risk-management process.
and confirmation from the external auditors that they have complied with relevant UK independence standards.
The internal audit department, in conjunction with the management of the business functions, produces a risk The terms of reference of the audit committee are available register annually.
This register has been compiled by the on the Companys Web site.
business, following feedback from senior management from the key business functions.
