DIRECTORS REPORT for the 53 weeks ended 29 July 2012 The directors present their report and audited accounts from that date until the end of the financial year and up for the 53 weeks ended 29 July 2012. to the date of signing the financial statements.
Principal activities, business review and In accordance with the Companys articles of association: future developments i Mark Reckitt, who was appointed to the board after The principal activities of the Company are the the last annual general meeting, is required to retire and development and management of public houses.
ii following updated guidance in the UK Corporate Details of progress and future developments are given Governance Code, all of the directors of the Company are on pages 3 to 5. to be subject to election by shareholders every year.
Accordingly, all members of the board will retire and seek Results and dividends re-election at this years annual general meeting.
The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, was 44,567,000 or 35.6p per share.
Details of the terms under which the directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, The board proposes, subject to shareholders together with their interests in the shares of the consent, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share, Company, are given in the directors remuneration report on 29 November 2012, to those shareholders on the on pages 52 to 57. register on 26 October 2012, giving a total dividend for the year of 12.0p per share.
All appointments to the board are recommended by the nomination committee and are made in accordance with Return of capital the provisions of the articles of association.
During the year to 29 July 2012, the Company purchased 5,602,174 of its own shares with a nominal value of Third-party indemnity insurance to cover against any 112,000, for 22.6 million 22.7 million including liabilities of directors and officers of the Company, in stamp duty.
This represented 4.3% of the issued share respect of their duties as directors and officers of the capital of the Company as at 29 July 2012.
Company, was in place throughout the year and at the date of approval of the financial statements.
Land In the opinion of the directors, the difference between Interest in contracts the market value and book value of land is not of such No director has any material interest in any contractual significance as to require the attention of the members of agreement, other than an employment contract, the Company to be drawn to the difference.
subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to the Company.
Principal risks and uncertainties A discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing the Companys shareholders Company is included in section 2 on pages 40 and 41 Details of the Companys shareholders, including those and incorporated by reference.
beneficial interests notified to the Company as accounting for over 3% of the issued share capital of the Company, Financial and non-financial are given on page 63. key performance indicators KPIs A review of the business, using financial and non-financial Takeover directive disclosures KPIs, has been included in the chairmans statement, The Company has an authorised share capital comprising operating and finance review on pages 3 to 5.
500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 29 July 2012, the total issued share capital comprised Significant contractual or other arrangements 126,036,296 fully paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights The Company has a number of major suppliers and to these shares are set out in the Companys articles of operates a central distribution centre.
All of the major association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of suppliers, except one, have worked with the Company for these shares or their attached voting rights.
over five years, and the directors believe that the basis of these relationships is stable.
Details of significant shareholdings are given on page 63.
Directors No person holds shares with specific rights regarding The directors listed on page 46, other than Mark Reckitt, control of the Company.
served throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the financial statements.
Mr Reckitt was appointed The Company operates an employee share incentive plan.
as a non-executive director on 1 May 2012 and served However, no specific rights with respect to the control of ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 47
