Operating Review: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Overview The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to be those that would have the most significant effect on John Menzies plc.
When ensuring that an effective risk management platform is in place it isrecognised that byoperating 2 distinct businesses their risk profiles differ.
Some of the major risks that are faced, such as extreme weather or acts of terrorism, remain outside our full control but they are still considered and mitigating activities areplanned for.
The Groups key risks and that of each operating division are reviewed 6 monthly by the Group Board and in more detail by the Audit Committee.
Risk Area Risk Description Impact Mitigating Factors Business Environment Risk Distribution Risk associated with changing This could lead to an acceleration A focus on cost and productivity consumer behaviour and digital of top line decline as fewer efficiency within the core media proliferation.
newspapers and magazines are business.
sold as individuals adapt the way New revenue opportunities away they consume media.
from printed media distribution arebeing pursued.
An external consultant review wascommissioned that provided a forward looking market overview.
Aviation The risk of global economic This could result in a reduction in A flexible business model exists recession and its impact on the number of aircraft movements with geographical diversity that airlines, ground and cargo which have a direct impact on the has stood up to previous events.
amount of aircraft turns and cargo Strategic alignment with more tonnes handled.
The ultimate impact of this risk Rigorous credit control and weekly would be financial.
analysis of volume across all product categories.
Customer Risk Distribution Risk associated with publisher Failure to re-negotiate existing Current contracts secured through renewals.
contracts at acceptable rates until 2014 and beyond.
would have a material effect on Strategic analysis of options at the the current operating model.
time of the next contract renewals.
Ultimately the impact of this Constant evolution of the riskwould be financial.
operating model to ensure an optimum cost base.
Implementation of current branch re-organisation plans.
Distribution Risk associated with retailer Greater power within the supply Continue to drive service consolidation and retailer chain for large multiple retailers excellence and respond to aspirations.
could result in preferential retailerKPIs.
payment terms and increased Customer survey completed and service level demands.
This would have both operational and financial implications.
Aviation Risk associated with airline Airline consolidation could result in A balanced customer portfolio industry change.
Airline volume reductions across the main exists.
consolidation or failure can lead product categories if the acquiring The division attempts to focus on toopportunities and threats.
A risk airline is handled by a competitor growing, financially strong airlines.
exists if airline customers fail or or drops off a route.
Maintain key relationships within are consolidated or significantly This would impact operations airlines.
ataffected airports and ultimately the financial performance of thedivision.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 32
