Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 21 Relationships Re Sheneela Khan, Sh W Wo Wood Group Mustang, Canada Sheneela joined as a Pr S She oject Controller and, because of her good understanding of customer b bec needs, was invited to join the business n nee development team.
She has developed key d d dev r r re elationships with pr ela ospective clients, earned their trust and been instrumental in securing t t th hei significant pr s s sign ojects.
Sheneela is also a member of the Canadian Heavy Oil Association CHOA o o off t and manages and participates in CHOA events.
a a an and Driving remains the biggest contributor to We have several joint ventures across the Relationships fatalities in the organisation: we have worked Group.
In Wood Group GTS, we continue to embed our driving policy, which was rolled to work well with our partners in Rolls Wood Our business depends on healthy out across the Group in November 2011, to Group, Wood Group Pratt & Whitney and relationships with customers, business reinforce the expectation of safe driving by all TransCanada Turbines.
The success of these partners and suppliers.
We build and employees at all times.
We are focused on long-term relationships is a testimony to our nurture strong relationships that are mutually reducing the risks associated with distractions, alignment and focus on communication, and beneficial, making sure that we deeply such as a complete ban on the use of mobile our ability to work well with partners.
phones whilst driving on company business understand the people we deal with, so that We also work closely with government and and reinforcing the need to wear seat belts at we can anticipate their needs and always aim industry bodies, including health and safety all times.
Everyone in our and governmental departments of trade and organisation contributes to the quality of the To assist in delivering continuous improvement, industry.
Our employees and businesses are relationships we build and we actively seek the incident reporting systems used within actively involved in supporting groups which feedback.
the Group were reviewed and upgraded.
This contribute to knowledge sharing and coprovides a consistent approach to reporting operation across industry sectors.
all safety incidents, ensures they are being We listen to our customers and the We have a number of relationships with assessed in a consistent manner and attract organisations that we work with to understand educational institutions throughout the appropriate focus to drive improvements.
Often that can involve world, including the University of Aberdeen, fostering better relationships within the Group, Performance and initiatives the Kazakh-British Technical University in across our divisions.
As a Group we perform During 2012 the frequency of recordable injuries Kazakhstan, Heriot-Watt University in Dubai, the better by being more joined-up, collaborating continued to decrease in line with long-term University of Western Australia and the Memorial more and selling our collective capabilities.
However, we saw one driving fatality University of Newfoundland in Canada.
All these example, this year we combined the best in at the start of the year in Algeria when no seat relationships are helping us to develop the class offerings of our businesses in a range of belt was worn.
This continues to remind us that next generation of engineers for the oil & gas locations, including Newfoundland, Kazakhstan driving remains a high-risk activity and that we industry.
We expect everyone in our organisation to We have continued to implement programmes contribute to the quality of relationships that we promoting and enhancing the health and wellbuild and our people are given responsibility for being of our employees, their families and the their performance and decisions.
We need to be communities in which we work.
We provide exible and take action to address challenges guidance, tools and support to develop health and deliver high-value solutions to customers.
programmes tailored and managed by our Our commitment to our Relationships Core local businesses.
We operate in areas where Value helps us to overcome challenges and malaria is a concern and recorded three cases break down barriers to change.
Brought in to of malaria in 2012.
We continue to be members drive changes to culture and behaviours with of the Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa Caltex in Australia, we didnt want to convey a CAMA whose goal is to maximise malaria we know best attitude, but by forming a strong intervention benets through the optimisation of relationship with our customer and taking the in-country co-operation, information sharing and time to develop a deep understanding of their private sector advocacy.
needs, we were able to apply Wood Group PSN Over 600 employees completed the Global best practices and deliver a number of tangible Corporate Challenge GCC.
The teams walked, maintenance improvements over the course of swam and cycled to create a step count and the contract.
complete a virtual walk around the world.
Through the 16 weeks of the programme, the teams walked 822 million steps, the equivalent of walking round the world 13 times.
Recognising success In 2012 many Wood Group individuals and businesses were recognised for their contribution to safety by industry bodies and you will nd examples of our Safety & Assurance Core Value award winners throughout this report.
Living our Values John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 Further reading 22 p26 Governance p28 29 Board of directors and biographies Living our Values continued with the CTC Energy efficiency Scheme industry bodies and IOCs aimed at establishing Social Responsibility reporting requirements.
We identify and monitor containment and control systems in the event environmental impacts of our main areas of of well control accidents.
Elsewhere, we were Being socially responsible is integral to environmental risk: this includes platforms awarded work for a number of windfarms.
We aim to make a positive where we are the duty holder: where we difference to the communities where we In 2012 we also staged our third annual global operate power plants and facilities, and the Environment Day during which employees were operate and seek ways to assist them.
design and integrity of topside facilities.
encouraged to organise a wide range of events We prioritise the hiring and development Secondly, we seek to reduce the environmental to continue to raise awareness and focus on of local people and work with local supply impact of our operations.
Our main CO how we can continue to make a difference 2 chains where we can.
We are committed emissions come from energy use in our to the environment through our work for to minimising the impact of our activities on buildings and business travel by employees and customers.
the environment by conserving resources, we are committed to improving performance reducing waste and emissions, and in both these areas.
Our Carbon Footprint preventing environmental pollution and we programme has now been extended across work with our customers to provide the best all of Wood Group Engineering and Wood Group GTS, and UK-based Wood Group PSN environmental solutions.
businesses and will continue to be rolled out across the Group.
We continue to participate We support a range of charities and causes in the independent Carbon Disclosure Project spanning health, education, the arts, medical CDP for Carbon Emission reporting and research and the prevention and reduction of we were ranked 97th in the FTSE 350.
We have well-established employeealso participate in the Carbon Reduction giving funds to support the causes that our Commitment, a UK Government scheme to people care passionately about.
During 2012 incentivise carbon emissions reduction and we have supported the KNEX Young Engineers have improved performance in 2012.
Challenge, the Aberdeen International Youth Festival, Glencraft and the Maggies Centres Thirdly, and most importantly, we use our Appeal in the UK.
In the USA we supported a expertise to provide solutions to customers number of initiatives including the Alley Theater which reduce their environmental impacts and schools project, the Texas Childrens Hospital help develop renewable energy solutions.
It and the MS150 bike ride for multiple sclerosis.
is in this area that we can make the biggest We have been successful with initiatives to contribution to the environmental objectives of encourage the employment of female engineers our Social Responsibility Value.
in Saudi Arabia, and in Angola we have We aim to directly and positively impact the established university positions to develop the environmental performance of our customers local workforce.
by designing processes and facilities which monitor and limit emissions, use fewer Our environmental strategy has three key materials in fabrication and contribute to more elements.
Firstly we develop and implement efficient operation.
We are also focused on sound management systems.
We have worked enhanced the use of management systems on well containment projects for not-for-profit aligned to ISO 14001 and ensure compliance Social Responsibility So W Wood Gr o oup PSNs socioeconomic committee, Chad ec W W Wo ood Group PSNs socio-economic committee in Chad, has helped support a local c com orphanage in the city of Doba, leading to the o orp number of childr n n num en being cared for increasing fr ffr ro om 55 to over 250.
W m ood Group PSN was cr w w w was edited with helping to enable this and impr iim m mp ove the life, care and wellbeing of these childr c c ch hil en.
