20 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Risks and Uncertainties The effective identification and management of risks and opportunities across the group are integral to the delivery of the groups strategic objectives.
The groups approach to risk management is aimed at monitoring material issues to enable the early identification of key risks and the taking of action to remove or reduce the likelihood of those risks occurring and their effect.
Risk Description Impact STRATEGIC Failure to grow in the longer The groups existing activities are well placed to deliver Failure to identify new business areas or extend the term, to take advantage of good growth over the coming years.
New business groups portfolio could impact the ability of the group new opportunities or to have areas will help to sustain the groups growth beyond to continue to grow in the long term.
sufficient capacity to meet that period.
demand Inability to deliver anticipated The groups strategy is based upon organic growth.
Unsuccessful integration of an acquired business benefits from acquisitions, However, acquisitions and investment in capital projects or project time or cost over-runs could result in the capital projects and other will accelerate the achievement of our strategic goals.
failure to realise the expected benefits and hence initiatives impact the groups results.
The realisation of anticipated benefits depends on: the performance of acquired businesses after acquisition and their successful integration into the group: and the delivery of capital projects on cost and to plan.
Changes to future Approximately 50% of the groups revenue is driven by A curtailment in environmental legislation around the environmental legislation environmental legislation, particularly legislation over world could limit the groups growth potential and emissions from light and heavy duty vehicles.
tightening of global emissions legislation generally requires improved technological solutions and the extension of emissions legislation to new applications can create opportunities for the group.
Technological change Johnson Matthey operates in highly competitive markets Failure to keep up with changes in the market place in which technology is a key to success.
Constant product and to maintain our technology pipeline could result innovation is critical to maintain competitive advantage.
in a lack of competitive products and erosion of margins and or loss of market share.
MARKET Global political and The global nature of the groups business exposes it to A sustained period of economic weakness in our markets economic conditions risk arising from economic, political and legislative change could have a material adverse effect on the groups results.
in the countries in which we operate.
The group has no influence upon changes in inflation, interest rates or other economic factors affecting its business.
In addition, the possibility of political unrest and legal or regulatory changes also exist in countries in which the group operates.
Commercial relationships The group has well established long term relationships The group has high shares in many of the markets and reputation with a number of customers and suppliers.
Maintaining in which it operates.
The deterioration in its good relationships with customers and suppliers reputation or relationship with, or ultimately enables the group to enhance the quality of service the loss of, a key customer or supplier could have to its customers.
a material impact on the groups results.
21 The board has overall responsibility for the authority and responsibility for assessing, change in the profile of each risk during ensuring that risk is effectively managed monitoring and managing it.
The most the course of 2011 12. across the group.
However, the board has significant risks identified are collated into In view of the groups increased delegated to the Audit Committee the a Group Risk Register.
The Group Risk focus on the cost of rare earth materials responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness Register is reviewed by the Chief Executives and the establishment this year of a of the groups system of internal control Committee.
Each individual risk is considered strategy to manage movement in their and procedures for the identification, and the status and progression of mitigation prices as described in the Financial assessment, management, mitigation and actions and plans are monitored.
The Group Review of Operations section on page 29, reporting of risk.
Risk Register is reviewed by the board we have concluded that the risk associated The group has in place a process for twice a year.
with movements in raw material prices has the continuous review of its risks.
As part of The table below sets out what the decreased.
As a result, we have removed that process, each business reviews its risks board believes to be the principal risks and this from our principal risks this year.
and its mitigation strategies and actions.
uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating Each risk is allocated an owner who has actions for each and an update on any Mitigation Changes since 2011 Annual Report Each business prepares a ten year strategic plan to review demand in existing markets The group invested 128.6 million in R&D in the and potential new opportunities.
The group continues to invest in research for new products and technologies.
Capacity and demand considerations are included in the strategic review and The group is targeting potential new markets and additional capacity management reviews.
developing new businesses, both organically and through acquisition.
The group has clearly defined criteria for suitable acquisition targets and substantial There were no acquisitions in the year.
due diligence is carried out before any acquisition is made.
A dedicated team is appointed to manage the integration process and regular The integration and performance of the Additives monitoring of the performance of newly acquired businesses is carried out.
business formerly Intercat during the year is Requirements of capital projects and other initiatives are strictly defined and subject discussed in the Financial Review of Operations to robust approvals.
Significant projects such as expansion of capacity in Emission Control Technologies, Process Technologies and Catalysts and Chemicals are discussed in the Financial Review of Operations.
The group maintains a diverse product portfolio.
Forthcoming changes in emissions legislation are well understood and our products are designed to meet these increased requirements.
Profit margins can be maintained with continuous improvements in technology to reduce the cost and improve the effectiveness of our products.
Regular reviews are undertaken to monitor areas of new potential legislation.
Lobbying activities are undertaken where appropriate to improve the understanding of regulatory and legislative bodies.
The group continues to invest in its products through R&D including through No change.
our Technology Centres around the world and as per our ten year technology plan.
There is constant innovation and development in cooperation with our key customers.
The group invests in its people to ensure that it maintains a high level of relevant scientific expertise.
The group maintains a balanced portfolio of businesses and serves a wide range The groups strong performance this year reflects of diverse customers which reduces the impact of a change to any one market.
the continuing recovery of its businesses since Management continuously monitors the performance of our businesses across the the recession in the groups developed markets.
world at both business and group level.
Our cost base contains a significant variable element and is flexible to changing Given the continued uncertainty in Europe offset political and economic conditions.
partially by the improved outlook in the US we have concluded that this risk has increased since last year.
Some of the groups key relationships are supported by long term contracts, notably No change.
the groups relationship with Anglo American Platinum.
A broad customer base is maintained to prevent the group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Industry developments and market shares are constantly monitored.
We actively manage our customer relationships at all levels to ensure a high quality of service.
22 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact FINANCIAL Pension scheme The group operates a number of defined benefit pension Actuarial deficits could be adversely affected by funding schemes, some of which are in deficit.
changes in interest rates, the market values of investments, as well as inflation and increasing longevity of the schemes members.
This may result in greater cash contributions being required.
OPERATIONAL Changes to health, safety, In common with similar manufacturing companies, the Changes made to applicable laws, regulations or environmental and other group operates in an environment that is subject to standards could adversely impact the groups regulations and standards numerous health, safety and environmental laws, manufacturing capability or indeed, the marketability regulations and standards.
Availability of raw materials The group uses many raw materials within its Disruption to the supply or a change in the groups manufacturing processes.
Several raw materials are ability to access sufficient stocks of these raw available from only a limited number of countries materials, most notably platinum group metals, rare and or suppliers.
earths or narcotic raw materials, could adversely affect the groups profit.
This may be due to increased prices or because our ability to manufacture and supply product to customers may be impacted.
Employees and the The group relies upon its ability to recruit, train and The departure of senior management or the lack recruitment and retention develop employees around the world with the necessary of an appropriately skilled workforce could adversely of high quality staff range of skills and experience to meet its stated impact the groups ability to perform in line with objectives, including in relation to business growth.
The existing management team has many years of experience at Johnson Matthey, operating in the markets and developing the technologies in which the group maintains a presence.
Security On any given day the group has significant quantities A material loss due to a breach in the groups security of high value precious metals or highly regulated measures, including theft or fraud, could be significant substances on site and in transit, the security of which to the groups performance.
Intellectual property IP The group operates in markets in which the generation Failure to establish the groups IP rights or to identify and application of technology and IP allows an third parties IP rights could undermine the groups advantage to be maintained.
Careful monitoring of competitive advantage particularly given the groups competitors IP is required to ensure that breaches expansion into new markets.
Alternatively, not of their rights are not made by the group.
noting the expiration of patents held by third parties could mean the loss of potential business opportunities.
23 Mitigation Changes since 2011 Annual Report Where actuarial deficits exist the group has agreed deficit recovery plans.
The group works with the fiduciary committees and trustee boards of each of its pension schemes around the world to ensure that an appropriate investment strategy is in place.
This includes fide-risking the schemes as funding levels improve.
Where possible, appropriate pension scheme assets are held to match movements in the schemes liabilities.
We monitor and proactively manage the rate at which the pension liability grows and consider liability management exercises as appropriate.
The group is reviewing its options with regard to future pension provision for employees worldwide.
More detail of the groups pension schemes is included in note 14 in the Accounts.
The group carries out regular internal reviews to ensure compliance with current No change.
group policies and applicable laws, regulations and standards such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our quality standards are also scrutinised externally by customers, suppliers and the relevant authorities.
We work with external consultants to understand better our regulatory responsibilities in the territories in which we operate.
Changes in legislation are carefully monitored and if required, the composition of our products is amended to comply with latest legislation.
We are committed to proactive communication and to building open relationships with the authorities and relevant legislative bodies, both directly and through the relevant trade associations.
Although most of the worlds platinum is mined in South Africa, the group has access No change.
to world markets for platinum and other precious metals and is not dependent on any one source for obtaining supplies.
Appropriate sourcing arrangements are in place for other key raw materials to ensure that the group is not dependent on any one supplier.
Where possible the group enters into fixed price contracts for key raw materials.
We work closely with key suppliers to ensure availability, including through audits, benchmarking and specific risk reviews.
We monitor forecast requirements on a regular basis and hold buffer stocks where necessary.
We look to use alternative raw materials where appropriate.
Global training and management development programmes are in place, including No change.
training of manufacturing leaders to run our operations in a consistent and efficient way through the Manufacturing Excellence programme.
Regular reviews of management succession plans are carried out.
Global remuneration policies are in place to ensure appropriate rewards to motivate and retain staff.
We undertake a continuous assessment of the skills required within the group and action plans are put in place to address identified gaps.
Succession planning is closely monitored by the Nomination Committee and Management Development and Remuneration Committee MDRC.
The group has highly developed security, assay and other process controls.
Annual security audits are carried out across the group.
Insurance cover is maintained for losses from theft or fraud.
The group has established policies and procedures for registering patents and for No change.
monitoring its existing patent portfolio and those of third parties.
We defend infringement claims and challenge new patents where it is appropriate to do so.
We continuously evaluate operating restrictions and opportunities available to us through the use of our IP and know how.
A substantial part of the groups IP is know how and this is protected through non-disclosure agreements and other legal measures.
We restrict internal and external access to IP and know how as necessary.
We complete security checks to safeguard both our tangible and intangible assets.
Our investment in technical developments mitigates the risks to our IP and know how to some degree.
