Principal Risks Managing our risks The significant risks identied by Kazakhmys are those that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects.
These should be carefully considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement set out on page 172.
There may be other risks unknown, or currently believed immaterial by the Group, which might become material.
Operational risks Health and safety Risk description: Mining is a hazardous industry and failure to adopt payable to current and former employees who suffered workplace and embed health and safety management systems could result in injuries.
The level of disability payments are indexed to current pay harm to Kazakhmys employees as well as fines and penalties and rates within the Group.
damage to the Groups reputation.
Fatality levels within the Group Action: Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards of health are higher than at comparable internationally listed mining companies and safety practices are vital to its success and are a key responsibility with 19 fatalities recorded for 2012 2011: 24. of all employees.
The Groups policies and procedures in these areas Impact: Health and safety incidents could lead to a number of adverse are designed to identify relevant risks and opportunities and provide consequences, including harm to people, as well as production a clear framework for conducting business.
Further details on the disruption, reputational damage and financial loss.
The Group has a measures being taken to improve health and safety practices, dened benets obligation of $373 million 2011: $211 million, the including the work of the Groups HSE function, are set out in majority of which is in respect of long-term disability allowances the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 48. Business interruption Risk description: The business of mining, smelting and rening Action: Work is being undertaken across the Group, with the metals and the production of power is resource intensive, and support of appropriate in-house and third-party specialists, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to, geological to address operational risk issues.
The Group has a number and technological challenges, weather and other natural phenomena of initiatives underway to improve equipment availability and such as oods and earthquakes, res, explosions, equipment failures, reduce outages.
The Group is partially protected from the loss delays in supplies and loss of key inputs including electricity, water of key assets by the availability of geographically diversied mining and coal, which can cause prolonged mine or plant shutdowns or and concentrating operations, two smelting complexes, the option periods of reduced production.
of selling concentrate to customers and access to multiple power sources.
A combined property damage and business interruption Impact: Any disruption to operational activities could have a negative catastrophic insurance programme is in place which can provide impact on the Groups profitability and cash ows, and may require protection from some of the financial impact of a major incident the Group to make large unplanned capital expenditures.
In addition at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and rening facilities, to revenue losses, long-term business interruption could result in a and power stations.
loss of customers and reputational damage.
42 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Principal Risks Financial Statements Assets controlled by third parties and joint ventures Risk description: Kazakhmys holds a 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
take actions which are inconsistent with the Groups policies or The business and financial performance of this investment is not standards.
Outsourcing companies may take actions which are controlled by the Group.
Furthermore, the Group is party to a joint inconsistent with the Groups objectives or operating procedures, venture arrangement in respect of the ownership and management including the failure to adequately maintain Kazakhmys assets.
of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 power station.
Kazakhmys has also engaged Action: Kazakhmys monitors the business and financial performance outsourcing companies to manage certain Group assets, principally of its 26% investment in ENRC.
The Group has the ability to exercise engaged in the transportation of production materials by road and rail.
its rights as the single largest shareholder of ENRC and maintains an Impact: Decisions made by the board of ENRC could have a material active dialogue with members of ENRCs board, senior management impact on the reported earnings of Kazakhmys.
The board of ENRC and major shareholders.
The Board continues to monitor strategic may take actions which are inconsistent with the Groups values options in respect of the Groups investment in ENRC, with the and strategies.
Furthermore, changes in market or macroeconomic objective of maximising value for all shareholders.
Kazakhmys seeks conditions could impact ENRCs cash ows and the valuation of to ensure that the appropriate governance structures are in place Kazakhmys investment in ENRC.
During 2012, the market value to manage the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture in accordance with of the investment in ENRC fell by 53% and at 31 December 2012 the Groups business interests and that they are consistent with the an impairment charge has been recognised to reduce the carrying Groups policies and standards.
Under the terms of the joint venture value of the investment to the equivalent of 3.75 per share, arrangement, Kazakhmys is entitled to appoint the operational below the average acquisition cost of 5.75 per share.
management of the power plant until 2015, overseen by a supervisory board consisting of representatives of both joint venture partners.
The Groups partner in the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture may Kazakhmys actively monitors the performance of its outsourcing have business interests inconsistent with those of the Group and companies to ensure they full their contractual obligations.
may exercise its right to block certain actions.
The partner may New projects Risk description: The development of new projects involves many Action: Prior to an investment decision being made, certain risks including geological, engineering, procurement, nancing evaluation activities are performed including, where appropriate, and regulatory risks.
If the Group fails to adopt an appropriate feasibility and other technical studies.
significant projects are subject procurement and project management strategy, it may experience to the Groups capital appraisal process, including Board review delays to project schedules and an increase in costs.
Regulatory and approval as they progress.
There are also a number of planning risks include failures to obtain and maintain applicable permits, and monitoring procedures in place addressing the management licences or approvals from the relevant authorities to perform of capital expenditure.
The Group ensures that sufficient expertise, certain development work.
from both in-house and third-party specialists, is utilised on projects throughout their life cycle.
For the major projects currently underway, Impact: Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic returns due Bozshakol and Aktogay, Kazakhmys has appointed an experienced to an inability to recover mineral reserves as planned and higher than EPC contractor to manage the construction of the processing plants.
expected capital and operating costs.
Projects may also fail to complete The Projects Assurance Committee regularly assesses the operational or suffer delays which may reduce future production volumes and and financial status of these projects to identify any material risks result in a financial loss to the Group.
A reduction in future production to their successful commissioning and start-up.
In respect of project volumes would also increase the cash cost on a per unit basis.
A lack funding, Kazakhmys has committed nancing in place for Bozshakol of available funding may prevent projects being completed.
com 43 Principal Risks continued Labour, mining equipment and supplies Risk description: Commodity price uctuations can have an impact mining equipment and supplies increase operating and capital costs on industry demand for labour, mining equipment and supplies.
which affect the Groups financial performance, and these factors In periods of elevated commodity prices competition for skilled together may impact the economic viability of certain mines and personnel intensies, both internationally and within Kazakhstan, projects.
In 2012, the total cash operating costs of Kazakhmys and availability of mining equipment and supplies can be subject Mining rose by 26%.
to long lead times and cost ination.
The remote location of some Action: The Group actively monitors the market for labour of the Groups operations also makes the attraction and retention and mining equipment and supplies to remain competitive in the of skilled staff at these sites more challenging.
hiring of staff and procurement of mining equipment and supplies.
Impact: Kazakhmys may suffer shortages of skilled workers and Kazakhmys has an extensive social programme for its employees delays in obtaining mining equipment and supplies which limit the and their dependents and invests in training facilities and staff Groups ability to operate effectively.
Coupled with a decline in development to raise skill levels.
To mitigate inationary pressures grades at the Groups mature mines, ination of employee costs, the Group has a number of operational efficiency initiatives underway.
Labour and community relations Risk description: Many of the Groups employees are represented The dependence of certain communities on the Group for by labour unions under various collective labour agreements.
employment and the provision of services may impose restrictions Negotiations of wages may become more difficult in times of higher on the Groups exibility in taking certain operating decisions commodity prices and consequently higher profits in the mining which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial industry, as labour unions may seek wage increases and other forms position.
Services provided to communities may also be loss-making of additional compensation.
In addition, the Groups employees and require capital investment thereby adversely impacting the may seek wage increases outside of the collective labour agreements Groups cash ows.
Further details of the Groups social programme and labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing on page 48.
The Group operates in locations where it is the major employer and may also provide a range of services to the local community Action: A full engagement strategy with community representatives, such as heat and power.
Community expectations are typically unions and employees operates within the Group which aims to complex with the potential for multiple inconsistent stakeholder address concerns raised by different stakeholders.
The Group also views that may be difficult to resolve.
has an extensive social programme for its employees and their dependents.
The Group is reviewing the services it provides to Impact: Poor employee relations inuenced by internal and communities with the objective of raising tariffs where applicable external factors could result in an unstable workforce that disrupts to market rates.
The Group works closely with the Government operations or seeks above ination wage increases and other forms on social matters, which may in the future include the transfer of of compensation, having a material adverse effect on the Groups certain social assets to Government ownership and management.
In 2012, labour costs at Kazakhmys Mining rose by 34% and the future disability benets obligation within the employee benets provision, which is linked to current wage rates, has increased by $162 million.
44 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Principal Risks Financial Statements Political risk Risk description: Most of the Groups mining and power operations Action: The Government of Kazakhstan has actively pursued a are in Kazakhstan.
Accordingly, the Group is substantially dependent programme of economic reform, helping to make it one of the on the social, political, economic, legal and scal conditions prevailing most politically stable and economically developed countries in in Kazakhstan.
The Government of Kazakhstan has representation on the Board of Kazakhmys and is a significant shareholder in Impact: Changes to Kazakhstans foreign trade export and import, the Group.
The Board continues to view the political, social foreign investments, property, tax, environmental and subsoil use and economic environment within Kazakhstan favourably, and regimes or social responsibility expectations or other changes that looking forward, remains optimistic about the conditions for affect the supportive business environment in Kazakhstan could business in the region.
Kazakhmys maintains a proactive dialogue negatively affect the Groups business, financial position and with the Government of Kazakhstan across a range of issues, performance and decisions on future investments.
including subsoil use regulations, taxation, the environment and social responsibility and community relations.
Reserves and resources Risk description: Kazakhmys ore reserves for operating mines and Action: The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources are development projects are largely based on the estimation method published in accordance with the criteria of the JORC Code and for reserves and resources established by the former Soviet Union.
Kazakhmys engages the services There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore of independent technical experts to annually convert reserve and reserves, and geological, technical and economic assumptions resource calculations for operating mines and development projects that were valid at the time of estimation may change signicantly from the in-house method established by the former Soviet Union when new information becomes available.
to the method prescribed by the JORC Code.
The Groups reserves and resources were last audited in 2010 by an independent technical Impact: Changes in reserves could adversely impact mine plans expert.
A project is ongoing to digitise selected mines reserves which and the economic viability of projects resulting in economic losses, will be used in the future for determining estimates of reserves and negatively impacting the Groups financial position and performance.
resources and to support improved estimation of ore grades and mine planning.
Compliance risks Subsoil use rights Risk description: In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in predictable.
However, non-compliance with the requirements of which the Group operates, all subsoil reserves belong to the State.
subsoil use contracts could potentially lead to regulatory challenges Subsoil use rights are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal and subsequently to fines and litigation, and ultimately to the loss of must be agreed before the expiration of the relevant contract operating licences.
The loss of any of the Groups subsoil use rights or licence.
Rights may be terminated if the Group does not satisfy could have a material adverse effect on its mining operations.
its licensing or contractual obligations, which may include financial Action: The Groups management makes every effort to engage with commitments to State authorities and the satisfaction of mining, the relevant regulatory authorities and ensure compliance with all development, environmental, social, health and safety requirements.
relevant legislation and subsoil use contracts.
The Groups procedures In recent years, legislation relating to subsoil use rights has come to ensure compliance with the terms of subsoil contracts have been into force in Kazakhstan, which sets out stricter requirements on updated to reect the requirements of the new legislation, including the performance of licence obligations, technical documentation, more active procurement of goods and services from Kazakhstan.
work programmes and the level of goods and services sourced from In 2012, 63% of goods and services used by the Mining Division were Kazakhstan.
The authorities have also increased their monitoring of sourced from Kazakhstan.
A specialist department is also tasked with compliance with legislation and subsoil use contract requirements.
monitoring compliance with the terms of the subsoil use contracts.
Impact: As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have been adopted relatively recently and remain untested in the countrys judicial system, the legal consequences of a given breach may not be www.
com 45 Principal Risks continued Environmental compliance Risk description: The Group operates in an industry that is subject Groups non-compliance, the possibility of fines, penalties or other to numerous environmental laws and regulations.
As regulatory actions which may adversely affect the Groups financial performance standards and requirements continually develop, the Group may be and reputation.
Emissions charges in Kazakhstan have been increased exposed to increased compliance costs and environmental emission over recent years and the authorities are adopting an increasingly charges.
Policies and measures at a national and international level robust stance on compliance with environmental standards.
to tackle climate change will increasingly affect the business, thereby Action: The Group has policies and procedures in place which set presenting greater environmental and regulatory risks.
out the required operating standards for all employees.
Kazakhmys Impact: A violation of environmental laws, or failure to comply monitors its emissions and in recent years has invested in reducing with the instructions of the relevant authorities, could lead to the its environmental emissions.
The Group liaises with the relevant suspension of operating licences, challenges to subsoil use mining governmental bodies on environmental matters, including the rights, fines and penalties, the imposition of costly compliance development of new legislation.
Further details of the environmental procedures, reputational damage and financial loss.
New or amended measures being taken by the Group are set out in the Corporate environmental legislation or regulations may result in increased Responsibility Report commencing on page 48. operating costs, additional capital investment or, in the event of the Financial risks Commodity prices Risk description: The Groups normal policy is to sell its products Impact: Commodity prices can uctuate widely and could have a material impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, earnings, under contract at prices determined by reference to prevailing market cash ows and growth prospects.
prices on international global metal exchanges.
The Groups financial results are strongly inuenced by commodity prices which are Action: The Group keeps under regular review its sensitivity to dependent on a number of factors, including world supply and demand uctuations in commodity prices.
The Group does not as a matter and investor sentiment.
In particular, Kazakhmys is exposed to demand of course hedge commodity prices, but may enter into a hedge from China as described below, a major consumer of the metals which programme for certain commodities where the Board determines the Group produces.
Due to these factors, commodity prices may it is in the Groups interest to provide greater certainty over future cash be subject to significant uctuations, which could have a positive or ows.
The Group adopts a prudent approach in its financial planning negative impact on the Groups financial results.
and investment appraisal, reecting the volatility in commodity prices.
Exposure to China Risk description: In addition to the impact of Chinese demand Chinese government policy on credit or cross border lending on the pricing of Kazakhmys major products, as noted under the may affect the availability of Chinese bank lending to the Group.
Commodity Prices risk above, the Group makes significant physical Action: The Group continues to sell a significant volume of its copper sales to a limited number of customers in China.
Over the past production into Europe, where it maintains long-term customer five years, sales to China have represented an average of 45% of relationships, as well as into China, thereby taking advantage of its Kazakhmys Minings revenues.
The proportion of sales into China geographic position which provides access to both major markets.
is likely to increase in the future when production commences from In the event that demand reduced in China for the Groups products, the two major growth projects, Bozshakol and Aktogay.
China is also Kazakhmys would continue to allocate its sales between the two an important source of nancing to the Group with long-term debt markets to obtain the best commercial terms.
The nancing line facilities secured totalling $4.2 billion, primarily for the development for Bozshakol has been drawn and the Aktogay loan agreement is a of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
committed loan facility, thereby providing greater certainty over the Impact: Changes to Chinas scal or regulatory regimes or lower funding of the Groups growth projects.
Kazakhmys also maintains Chinese copper consumption could reduce demand in China for relationships with a number of international lending banks, having the Groups major products, leading the Group to direct a greater secured a $1 billion pre-export finance facility in December 2012, volume of sales to its other major market, Europe.
Changes to and has the exibility to consider other sources of capital such as the bond or equity markets, if so required.
46 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Principal Risks Financial Statements Acquisitions and divestments Risk description: In the course of delivering its strategy, the achieve the expected proceeds due to changing market Group may acquire or dispose of assets or businesses.
Corporate conditions or deficiencies in the sales process.
transactions may, however, fail to achieve the expected benefit or Action: Specialised staff are assigned to manage corporate value to the Group.
transactions, supported where appropriate by external advisors.
Impact: Changing market conditions, incorrect assumptions or Due diligence processes are undertaken on acquisitions and deficiencies in due diligence processes could result in acquisitions material transactions are subject to Board review and approval, failing to deliver the expected benefit or value to the Group, including ensuring the transaction is aligned with the Groups leading to adverse financial performance and failure to meet strategy, consideration of the key assumptions being applied expectations.
Acquisitions could also lead to the Group assuming and the risks identied.
liability for the past acts of acquired businesses, without recourse to other parties.
The disposal of assets or businesses may not Liquidity risk Risk description: The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including Action: The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate the risk that borrowing facilities are not available to meet cash committed borrowing facilities and working capital funds.
The Board requirements, and the risk that financial assets cannot readily monitors the net debt level of the Group taking into consideration be converted to cash without the loss of value.
the expected outlook of the Groups financial position, cash ows and future capital commitments.
Kazakhmys adopts a prudent Impact: Failure to manage nancing risks could have a material approach in managing its liquidity risk, reecting the volatility in impact on the Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position commodity prices.
The Group has secured committed funding as well as reducing the funds available to the Group for working for Bozshakol and Aktogay.
A $1 billion pre-export finance facility capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and other was secured in December 2012 for general corporate purposes and general corporate purposes.
to provide additional liquidity during the development of the major projects.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on pages 86 and 87.
Taxation Risk description: As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been in Impact: The uncertainty of interpretation, application and the force for a relatively short period of time, tax risks in Kazakhstan evolution of tax laws create a risk of additional and substantial are substantially greater than typically found in countries with payments of tax by the Group, which could have a material adverse more established tax systems.
Tax law is evolving and is subject effect on the Groups cash ows, financial performance and position.
to different and changing interpretations, as well as inconsistent Action: The Group makes every effort to comply with existing enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to review tax legislation, and works closely with the Government and tax and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, authorities in the review of proposed amendments to tax legislation penalties and interest charges.
Further details of the Groups tax strategy and risk management are set out in the Financial Review on pages 87 and 88. www.
