Summary Risk Management The Groups approach to internal control identied and managed in a manner is business risk driven, with emphasis given appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
Managing It comprises risk identication, assessment to operational, compliance and financial risks.
and management processes, together with During the year management have further risk response and monitoring activities.
developed the Groups risk evaluation our risk process, enhancing risk proling exercises The Group Risk Manager coordinates undertaken by operating businesses to the risk assessment and identication identify, evaluate and control risk.
Further activities, and facilitates the development The identication and management details of the Groups approach to internal of appropriate responses to identied of risks and opportunities across control are set out in the Governance risks.
Details of the process for identifying the Group are integral to the Framework section on pages 56 to 57. and managing the Groups risks are set out Groups strategic objectives.
below and further information on the risks Risk management They are vital in helping protect identied with mitigating actions where The Group, in the course of its business relevant are set out in the Principal Risks the Groups businesses, its people activities, is exposed to strategic, financial, section on pages 42 to 47. operational and compliance risks.
management of these risks is vested in Risk prole The Groups risk environment has the Board, with the Audit Committee Once the Groups significant risks have been improved signicantly over the past few having delegated authority for reviewing identied, each risk is then assessed as to years, with a risk management framework the Groups risk management framework.
its probability of occurrence and impact embedded in operational management The Board has approved a formalised on the Group.
Each risk is then placed onto processes and good progress being made but pragmatic Group risk management the Group risk map and regularly reviewed in better understanding and managing framework.
This framework is designed to ensure that its positioning continues to be an accurate representation as to its the Groups significant risks.
to provide assurance that risks are being Risk governance structure Board Board oversight Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
Approves overall Group risk appetite Audit Committee Reviews the adequacy and Remuneration Committee Assurance Group Health, Safety and effectiveness of the Groups Establishes a remuneration policy Internal audit Environment Committee internal control system for the Groups senior management programme Reviews reports of significant which enables them to share in the Internal audit Reviews reports on significant health, safety and environmental long-term success of the Group department risks and controls risks and actions being taken to without encouraging excessive Assesses Receives and reviews reports remove or mitigate them risk-taking management from internal audit assurance processes Advises on the adequacy and effectiveness of Identication, assessment and mitigation systems to manage business risk Risk Proling Site Assessment Risk proling exercises are conducted by operational Risk assessments of key sites conducted by the management in conjunction with the Group Risk Group Risk Manager and independent experts Manager to identify, assess and control business risks 16 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Summary Risk Management Detailed Information Financial Statements M o n i t o r s s e s s A R e s p o For more information see pages 42 Principal Risks 50 Governance Framework probability and impact on the Group.
There are also other risks which have been identied Risk Management Framework by management but which are not considered as one of the Groups significant risks at the current time.
These risks are also placed onto the Group risk map but are identied as risks being closely monitored by management.
A graphic representation of the Group risk map is shown below.
Operational risks Kazakhmys operations, financial results and reputation may be adversely affected by Risk a number of internal and external factors Management impacting its businesses and employees.
Framework The following risks represent the significant operational risks identied by management: t Health and safety t Business interruption t Assets controlled by third parties and joint ventures t New projects t Labour, mining equipment and supplies t Labour and community relations t Political risk t Reserves and resources How we prole our risk reporting Compliance risks Kazakhmys reputation and financial results may be adversely affected by its failure to comply with regulatory and statutory 3 requirements.
The following risks represent the significant compliance risks identied by management: t Subsoil use rights t Environmental compliance 2 Financial risks Kazakhmys operations and financial results may be adversely affected by the Groups financial strategy and changes in the global economy.
The following risks represent the significant financial risks identied by management: 1 t Commodity prices t Exposure to China t Acquisitions and divestments t Liquidity risk t Taxation 02 1 3 Probability For more information see page 42 Principal Risks significant risks Closely monitored risks www.
