20 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Risk management Protecting our business  Responsibilities in relation to risk management In addition the Audit Committee also: We believe that anticipating and The Board managing our risks effectively not The Board has overall responsibility for deciding the considers any accounting judgements made: onlyprotects our business but enables extent and nature of the risks that the business ateach meeting a paper covering any such us also to be more competitive should take to achieve its objectives.
It is responsible judgements is presented by the Finance Director inthemarkets in which we operate.
also for ensuring that the Group maintains sound for Group Services.
The external auditors provide internal control and risk management systems, as also their view on any such judgements to Consequently we have placed well as for reviewing the effectiveness ofthose theCommittee: considerable focus in recent years on systems.
In order to do this, the Board receives considers the consistency and appropriateness ensuring that we have the right skills regular reports from management, the internal of the accounting policies adopted: and processes in place to identify audit team and the external auditors, via the Audit andmanage our risks effectively.
Committee, on the effectiveness of the systems of reviews the financial statements of the Group internal control and risk management.
The Board is and the clarity of the disclosures made, although As part of this focus we have brought together a satisfied that the systems are embedded within the the ultimate responsibility for reviewing and Risk team within the business which is made up of day-to-day activities of the business and cover all approving the Annual Report and financial specialists who are able to advise the Group on material controls, including financial, operational statements remains with the Board: matters relating to legal risk, health, safety and and compliance controls, and that the Group environmental risk, insurance, governance and all monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the continues to be compliant with the provisions matters relating to standardsand compliance.
internal audit team, considers and approves the oftheUK Corporate Governance Code relating internal audit plan, along with the quality of the tointernalcontrol.
The Risk team is led by the Company Secretary reporting from the team, the resourcing of the whoreports to the Executive Chairman, with team and the adequacy of management Audit Committee adirect reporting line also to the Chairman responses to the audit issues raised: The membership and attendance at Committee oftheAudit Committee.
meetings during the year is shown on page 36. reviews the adequacy of the whistle-blowing procedures in place to enable employees and Our aim is to identify, evaluate and manage The Audit Committee meets three times a year third parties to raise concerns in confidence, as anyrisks facing the business, rather than to try to withthe Executive Directors, the Finance Director well as the effectiveness and independence of eliminate all risk.
We recognise that our internal for Group Services, the Company Secretary and any investigations undertaken as a result of such control systems can provide only reasonable and representatives from the external auditors also in concerns being raised: not absolute assurance against material attendance.
The external auditors meet also with misstatement or loss.
reviews the procedures in place for the detection individual members of the Audit Committee during of fraud and the prevention of bribery across the the year without the other attendees present.
Risk management framework Group: and We have a risk management framework in place The Committee is chaired by Martin Towers, who oversees the relationship with the external which enables us to identify, assess, measure, has considerable recent financial experience.
He is a auditors, as noted in more detail on page 22. manage and monitor any risks which may prevent fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in the business from meeting its objectives.
The England and Wales and has held a number of senior The Committees Terms of Reference are in line framework has been developed in accordance with finance roles, including working as Group Finance with the recommendations in the UK Corporate Financial Reporting Council Guidance and provides Director at Kelda Group PLC until 2008.
The Board Governance Code and the Institute of Chartered us with a single picture of the threats, uncertainties considers therefore that he has the relevant Secretaries and Administrators ICSA Guidance and opportunities we face.
This enables the Board financial experience required to fulfil the role onTerms of Reference for Audit Committees.
Copies and senior management to make appropriate ofChairman of the Audit Committee.
of the Terms of Reference are available from the decisions to limit and control the impact that these Company Secretary and are on our website at risks may have on our goals andobjectives.
At each Committee meeting there are reports www.
fromthe internal auditors on the adequacy and Internal audit effectiveness of the financial, operational and Risk Committee We have an internal audit team which sits within compliance controls in place across the Group.
The Risk Committee consists of senior management the Risk team and consists of three qualified Ourinternal and external audit teams work closely and specialists from across the Group and meets accountants, each with a Big Four background.
together to minimise risks and enhance shareholder quarterly to consider all types of risk.
The The work of the internal audit team is linked closely value and the external auditors report also to the Committee is responsible for reviewing progress in to the risk management framework with the internal Audit Committee any material risks identified mitigating risks and discussing and agreeing actions audit plan designed to give assurance around the during their interim review and the full year audit.
relating to any new risks that have been identified.
key risk areas identified through the risk The Committee prepares a report for the Board management framework.
The way in which risks are identified and managed, and the way in which risk reporting links to the work of the internal audit team, is shown on page 21.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 21 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our risk management process Risk identification Risks may be identified in a variety of ways: by anyone within the business: through our whistle-blowing process: or through external or internal audits.
The risk will be added to the risk register If the risk is auditable and has not been and rated for probability and impact.
audited, it will be added to the internal Risk Risk Each brand and Group Services has audit plan, which is approved by the investigation recording itsown risk register, along with each Audit Committee at each meeting.
All risks are assigned a senior Any audit issues raised are assigned management owner who is responsible asenior management owner who Issue Risk for the mitigation of the risk to an determines an action plan and ownership ownership acceptable level.
The mitigation plan is timescales to mitigate theissue.
documented on the risk register.
The risk register for each brand and Audit issues and management Group Services or project is reviewed Issue Mitigation responses arereported to the Audit and updated by the relevant senior reporting monitoring Committee three times a year.
management team or Project Board ona regular basis.
The risk registers are collated and Progress against action plans is reviewed bythe Risk Committee monitored closely and reported to the Mitigation Risk eachquarter to check for consistency Audit Committee at each meeting until monitoring reporting inratings and to identify any the issue has been closed.
Board reporting The Audit Committee reports to the The risk registers are reported Boardafter each meeting.
22 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Risk management continued The relationship with the external auditors Financial risk management Area Change in The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing Each part of our business produces a budget the relationship with the external auditors to ensure onanannual basis which is reviewed by level of risk that the external auditors continue to be independent, management and ultimately approved by the objective and effective in their work, as well as Board.
A longer-term five-year plan is also in considering the re-appointment of the auditors placewhich is updated annually and approved Security and each year in light of this.
bythe Board to enable them to have a clear resilience of longer-term view of financial projections.
IT, networks We have an Engagement of External Auditors anddata policy which is adhered to when selecting firms to The annual budget is updated quarterly as the perform non-audit work.
This policy excludes the yearprogresses.
Performance against budget auditors from providing certain services, such as andquarterly reforecast is monitored at monthly internal audit services, litigation support, remuneration senior management meetings and is reported to, advice and legal advice services.
All other non-audit and reviewed by, the Board each month.
Further work is assessed separately and is awarded to the information about the financial risk management firm considered best suited to perform the work.
policies in place, and in particular the way in which Reliance on Any such work with a fee greater than 25 per cent credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign key third party oftheannual audit fee must be approved by the currency risk are managed, are in note 28 to Chairman of the Audit Committee before the theaccounts.
partners and external auditors may be appointed.
suppliers Controls around consolidation During the year the fee for the external audit of The basis of consolidation for the financial theGroup and its subsidiaries, along with other statements is detailed in note 2 to the accounts.
Business services pursuant to legislation, was 228,000 Strong controls are in place around the process for 2011: 228,000.
In addition to this, the external preparing consolidated accounts.
The work of continuity auditors provided services to the value of 59,000 consolidation is performed by experienced, qualified 2011: 227,000 relating to tax services and accountants and a review of the consolidation pensions advice.
In both areas, the auditors forms part of the audit work performed by our existing knowledge of the Group was considered external auditors.
tobe a key factor when selecting the firm to perform the work.
Principal risks and uncertainties As with all businesses, we are affected by a number  LLP were appointed of risks and uncertainties, of which some are Customer asauditors in 2006 following a comprehensive beyond our control.
The table on the right sets out service and tendering process.
Each year the Audit Committee theprincipal risks and uncertainties which could delivery considers the continued independence of the have a material adverse effect on the Group and auditors and believes that audit partner rotation is have been identified through the risk a key control in ensuring continued independence managementframework.
and objectivity by reducing the risk of familiarity whilst retaining the detailed understanding of the This is not an exhaustive list and there may be business which the external auditors have gained risksand uncertainties of which currently we are over time.
During the year Ian Morrison was unaware, or which are believed to be immaterial, Recruitment appointed as the audit partner following the which could have an adverse effect on the business.
and retention rotation of Steve Denison away from the audit.
of the right people  LLP formally confirm their continued independence to the Audit Committee each year and the measures they have taken to ensure that they comply with best practice and professional and regulatory requirements in thisarea.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 23 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Further information about the financial risk management policies in place, and in particular the way in which credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are managed, are in note 28 to the accounts.
What are we doing to mitigate the risk?
We operate communication networks across the We have various policies and procedures in place across the Group to ensure that we maintain best UK and host data for customers alongside practice and appropriate compliance in relation to all of our key systems and networks.
All new operating our own IT systems internally.
This starters are made aware of these policies and procedures through their induction and we have means that we are dependent on the secure launched mandatory online training for all employees and contractors during the year.
The Risk operation and resilience of our information Committee considers specifically information security at each meeting and monitors the ongoing systems, networks and data.
mitigation of the specific risks identified.
We have held the ISO 27001 Information Security Management standard since 2007, which demonstrates the robustness of our security processes and the continuous improvement required by the standard.
Our strategic agreements with BT and Phoenix We use dedicated teams to maintain close relationships with our key partners and suppliers.
These ITGroup mean we are dependent on the relationships have continued to work well during the year.
We have appropriate contracts and performance of these third parties to provide service levels in place and monitor performance to ensure that our customers are receiving the best certain services to our customers.
possible service at all times.
Business continuity in the event of a crisis or This continues to be a key area of focus across the Group.
We are currently working towards disaster is a risk we continue to monitor and compliance with the BS 25999 Business Continuity standard and have now achieved this mitigate against.
It is essential to many of our intheNetwork Services, Managed Services and Collaboration activities of our Kcom brand.
customers that we can continue to provide services Acomprehensive testing programme has been implemented during the year to test our business even when a significant incident occurs.
Any learning points arising from these tests are fed back into the plans to ensure that these reflect the most efficient and effective way of keeping our critical processes operating inthe event of anincident.
One of the ways in which we seek to differentiate Over the last year we have organised our Customer Operations team within our Kcom brand to ourselves from our competitors is in the service and ensure that our people are focused primarily on our customers and to ensure that wherever possible delivery that we provide to our customers.
Failing we strive to meet or exceed customer expectations.
We have invested also in upgrading our network to deliver a service that differentiates us would monitoring systems to enable us to provide a much better quality service to our managed service clearly result in us failing to meet one of our key customers.
We have a dedicated Customer Experience team and measure regularly our performance business objectives.
with customers through customer satisfaction surveys, which we plan to continue.
People are our greatest asset and ensuring that we We have a comprehensive people strategy in place which aims to ensure that we recruit and retain recruit and retain the right calibre of people with the right people for our business.
In the year the focus of the people strategy has been on strengthening the right skill-set is key to the success of our business.
the leadership capability within the business and on developing a clear set of values to drive the culture of the business.
In the coming year, the focus will expand to identifying and managing our talent and ensuring that our recruitment, reward and retention strategies are strengthened further.
There is more detailed information available on the people strategy on page 26.
