18 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW RI SKS Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of Directors the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and recognises that the nature, scope and potential impact of strategies.
See the Corporate Governance report on pages 27 our key business and strategic risks is subject to constant to 34.
The Board considers that the principal risks to change.
As such, the Board has implemented the necessary achieving its strategic aims are set out below.
framework to ensure that it has sufficient visibility of the Groups key risks and the opportunity to regularly review EA SIER STRATEGIC AIM GROUP RISKS RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES 1.
MAKING IT t We fail to deliver value Deliver value and demand: EASIER FOR and demand through the Across our key markets we are committed to ensuring that our stores are aligned OUR CUSTOMERS easier initiatives.
withour aim to make the customer experience easier through a combination of: TO IMPROVE t Creating a better physical environment through clearer store navigation, stronger THEIR HOME and smarter visual merchandising, and the enhanced use of technology to guide staff through our stores.
t Investment in data analytics to provide improved customer insight to enhance our understanding of our customers needs.
t Investment in our pricing strategy to redene everyday low pricing EDLP credentials through price reduction programmes across key buying groups and redesigning promotional principles.
t Ensuring customers needs are satisfied through improved stock availability, an increased emphasis on self-service and availability of nancing options.
t Making home improvement easier for customers through DIY classes, online how-to videos and social media.
GIVING OUR t We fail to invest in the Systems and supply chain: CUSTOMERS MORE systems and supply chain We will also invest in our supply chains to ensure we can meet our customer WAYS TO SHOP platforms necessary to demands.
This will include the acquisition of higher specication distribution centre maintain either solutions in the UK, Poland, Turkey and China, the investment in better business competitive parity or information and forecasting technology e. g. new warehouse management and advantage, forecasting and replenishment systems due in B&Q UK in 2012 13 and the amongst online or multiintroduction of better and leaner store stock management procedures.
CO MMON STRATEGIC AIM GROUP RISKS RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES 3.
BUILDING t We fail to unlock the Purchasing and commercial strategies: INNOVATIVE potential to generate further Making the most of commercial opportunities through common brands and synergies COMMON shareholder value through remains a priority across the organisation.
The development of the 11 Group brands is BRANDS the optimisation of key to delivering the differentiation of product ranges with competitors: stimulating combined purchasing and innovation, and increasing scale efficiencies and margin growth.
commercial synergies, while Category plans are being developed across operating companies.
Commercial retaining accountability at synergies also include sharing supply chain and stock efficiencies.
This will be driven the Operating Companies.
by joint buying in selected categories across the UK and French businesses, starting with tiles and ooring in 2012.
The Kingsher Brands Network KBN is also looking to drive value through reduced direct import stock holdings, shared European consolidation hubs and shared national transport networks.
This investment is, however, dependent on the outcome of a number of trials underway to validate the potential return and benets from the KBN investment.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 19 CO MMON CONTINUED STRATEGIC AIM GROUP RISKS RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES 4.
DRIVING t Our continued investment Product or service failures: EFFICIENCY AND in own brand and sourcing Clear processes and procedures are in place across our businesses to ensure EFFECTIVENESS will increase our exposure that the products we sell are compliant with local certication and regulatory EVERYWHERE to reputational damage requirements.
For our own brand products we continue to develop the quality resulting from significant management tool QMT platform to ensure that our direct import and own product or service failures, brand products are subject to consistent supplier and product assessment due to poor quality of design, and approval processes.
EX PAND STRATEGIC AIM GROUP RISKS RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES 5.
GROWING t Uncertainty surrounding Global economy: OUR PRESENCE the resilience of the global With continuing volatility and uncertainty across all of the economies in which IN EXISTING economy and the future we operate, particularly within the Eurozone, Group Treasury continue to monitor MARKETS of the eurozone continues potential exposures and risks with our operating companies and provide effective risk to impact both consumer management solutions.
These include: confidence and the t The provision of supply chain finance programmes to support strategic suppliers.
long-term sustainability t Support from a strong portfolio of international banking partners that provides and capabilities of our exibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and card payment supplierbase.
t Diversication of cash holdings across a number of financial institutions with the strongest short-term credit rating.
t An appropriate mix of cash deposits and debt nancing that seeks to minimise the impact of foreign exchange currency volatility on the Group P&L.
t A hedging policy for imported product that ensures that operating companies have, on average, 50% of the next 12 months USD requirements secured at any given time.
We have assessed a number of alternative scenarios in relation to the volatility and uncertainty within the Eurozone.
For each of these scenarios a range of mitigation strategies is being developed covering the impact on the Group, our individual operating companies and suppliers.
EXPANDING t Retailing is changing due Business model: IN NEW AND to the growth of online and The environment in which we trade is changing rapidly and we face challenges DEVELOPING multi-channel retailers.
in expanding in some markets.
We continue to counter the growing competitive threat MARKETS There is a risk that if we fail posed by both pure play internet and multi-channel retailers through our long-term to adapt our business online and multi-channel investment programme across our key markets.
For example, model and do not take the investment in our multi-channel project will provide the necessary infrastructure to advantage of the develop a compelling internet and multi-channel offering across our businesses that opportunities created by will include the options to deliver enhanced click, pay and collect functionality and changes in technology improvements to the availability of products ranged online.
We will also continue to then we may be unable work on exible ordering options for customers, the development of online and mobile to maintain and grow applications to enhance the customer online experience and the ability to visualise our marketposition.
We will also continue to invest in our existing store portfolio but will seek to minimise its cost base and optimise its sales densities.
For example in France we will seek to minimise and challenge lease indexation while, in the UK, B&Q is looking to optimise its property portfolio through the creation of regional hubs supporting destination stores and feeder stores.
We will also start a number of trials, throughout 2012, where we will seek to expand in existing territories via new formats, and try low-risk market entry strategies based on the utilisation of current operating company skills and resources.
20 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW RISKS CONTINUED ON E TEAM STRATEGIC AIM GROUP RISKS RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIES 7.
DEVELOPING t We do not make the Investment in people: LEADERS AND necessary investment in Across our businesses we are developing our talent, building our leadership capability CONNECTING our people to ensure that and connecting our people through intelligent networks.
Specic examples of this PEOPLE we have the appropriate include: calibre of staff, skills t The continued investment in development of our senior leaders through the and experience.
Kingsher Academy, including the 2020 Leadership Programme and the development of networks across our businesses.
t Focused development activities across our store-based colleagues, including the roll out of national apprenticeship schemes across our UK and French businesses and the increased focus on how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisors across the organisation.
t Recognition of the importance of ensuring a constant ow of developing talent through structured graduate and management trainee programmes e. g. City & Guilds accreditation in the UK and the Viva2 and Perspective Programme in France, providing structured and sustainable career development paths supported by new and innovative coherent reward and bonus frameworks.
SUSTAINABILITY: t Impact on Kingshers Reputation: BECOMING NET reputation and brand Group Legal continue to work with operational management to resolve any potential POSITIVE arising from a major issues arising from new legislation or any suspected breaches of existing legislation environmental or ethical or Group policies.
We have invested significant resources to ensure that all of our failure, a significant businesses have the necessary resources to manage the legislative or regulatory corporate fraud or material challenges presented by their respective jurisdictions.
We aim to maintain the highest non-compliance with ethical standards across the organisation through improvements to our Code of legislative or regulatory Conduct, the revamping of the whistle blowing facilities available to both employees requirements resulting and suppliers through the Speak Up service, and the appointment of compliance in punitive or custodial ofcers to all of our Operating Companies.
Our commitment to sustainability remains a key value for Kingsher and across the organisation we continue to ensure that we engage with our key environmental partners and stakeholders including the FSC, WWF, TFT and GNFT.
We also see a commitment to sustainability as a key value driver across our businesses and, where practical, integrate sustainable practices into our business models and our property, logistics and distribution networks.
We also operate a number of customer initiatives to raise awareness of our work in key areas including timber, energy, innovation andcommunity.
Operational risks This year we have focused our disclosure on the significant risks the Group faces in relation to the strategic aims.
We recognise, however, that the Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis including, failure to comply with legislative and regulatory changes, IT security, environmental or ethical failure and health and safety failure.
These are important risks for the Group and we continue to invest in ensuring we have the right policies and procedures in place to mitigate and monitor each of these.
We continue to ensure that any breaches of these policies or any incident that may affect the safety of our employees or customers is dealt with immediately and reported at the appropriate level within the organisation.
