01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Internal Controls and Risk Management [ 45] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 No significant weaknesses of material failings were identified in the annual review.
Internal controls Determining Lonmins risk appetite the risk As in any business, Lonmin faces risk and uncertainty exposure our strategy requires us to consider in in everything it does.
The corporate strategy, which is the expectation of an economic return and risk reviewed on a regular basis, seeks to capitalise on tolerance the risk we are prepared to face in identified opportunities while mitigating known achieving our strategic goals : downside risks.
Where material risks have been Overseeing the risk management strategy: and identified within our business, we have implemented Ensuring management implement effective an appropriate internal control environment to systems of risk identification, assessment and endeavour to protect shareholders interests.
The mitigation and internal controls.
These systems Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, of internal controls and risk management, and it the risk of failure to achieve business objectives discharges its duties in this area by: and cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key features of Lonmins internal control framework include: Clear delegation Agreed ways Agreed objectives Transparency of power of working Clear accountability Charter, values and Code of Business Conduct Management reporting Schedule of Matters against budgets, plans Group Strategy, supported Documented policies, reserved for the Boards and forecasts by Life of Business Plan, procedures, processes decision resource database and and standards Annual management model Remit and terms of confirmation letters Risk management policy reference of Board Annual financial and and procedures supported by Committees technical budgets Appropriate tools including Annual audit and other Delegation of authority Risk tolerance appetite SAP, mine planning, external assurance to each level of clearly defined metallurgical tracking and providers management accounting, and risk Internal audit and other systems in-house review processes Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the in the control environment, within their area of the internal controls has been delegated to the Audit and business.
The principle of individual accountability Risk Committee.
The Committee uses information and responsibility at operational level is an drawn from a number of different sources to carry out important component in the Groups overall risk this review: philosophy.
Managers are responsible for the identification and effective management of all risks Internal Audit provides objective assurance in their areas of responsibility, and these letters their annual work plan is developed in conjunction have a wide ranging scope: and with management and focuses on key risks and Further objective assurance is provided by the key internal controls.
In the light of Internal Audits external auditors and other external specialists.
recommendations, management develops and implements corrective action plans, which are Throughout the year Lonmin complied with the tracked to completion by Internal Audit, with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on results reported to executive management and to internal controls and the relevant sections of Internal the Audit and Risk Committee: Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the Turnbull Annual self-assessments completed by around 77 guidance and Guidance on Audit Committees managers in the Group each manager confirms formerly the Smith guidance.
No significant whether there have been any breaches of the weaknesses or material failings were identified in the controls and if they are aware of any weaknesses annual review.
com Internal Controls and Risk Management Lonmin Plc [ 46] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial reporting particular risks are also reviewed by the Safety and Management is responsible for establishing and Sustainability Committee and Transformation maintaining adequate internal controls over financial Committee in addition to the Board.
reporting, including over the Groups consolidation Lonmins top 15 principal risks are detailed on the process.
A comprehensive strategic planning, following pages together with their potential impact budgeting and forecasting system is in place.
These risks have been financial information, including trading results and ranked according to magnitude of potential impact cash flow statements, are reported to the Board and before mitigating actions.
Both the Executive Committee and the snapshot of the Companys risk profile at this time.
Operations Committee meet monthly to review They are not intended to represent an exhaustive list performance against budget and forecast and senior of all risks.
As the macro environment changes and financial managers regularly carry out group country and industry circumstances evolve, new risks consolidation reviews and analysis of material variances.
may arise or recede or the rankings of these risks The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the application may change according to severity and probability of of financial reporting standards and any significant occurrence.
accounting judgements made by management.
As Lonmin is acutely aware following the strikes that Internal controls over financial reporting are designed occurred in August and September 2012 having a to provide reasonable assurance regarding the solid risk identification and management system in reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of place, including internal controls and mitigating financial statements for external reporting purposes.
strategies to reduce the impact of these risks, is no guarantee in itself that these risks will not occur.
In the Risk management 2011 Annual Report we identified the potential for a Lonmin has an integrated approach to risk management breakdown in employee relations as one of our and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is principal risks and this year we continue to do so, used to inform the internal audit process and the albeit that we have now elevated this risk to second design of internal controls.
The risk management in our list from 11th previously.
Other principal risks process, which has been in place throughout the year to highlight are the importance of solid relations with under review and to the date of approval of the local communities and the importance of a strong accounts, identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors balance sheet structure.
Both are being actively the risks facing the business.
Those risks that are addressed by the Board and management.
In particular, identified as significant, in addition to the associated we are looking to restructure the balance sheet mitigating controls, are reviewed regularly by the through an approximately $800m rights issue and an Executive Committee and then by the Board.
The amendment to our bank debt facilities which removes Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the covenants linked to EBITDA, which can be very volatile.
effectiveness of the risk identification process and the methodology used to evaluate and quantify the risks, Additionally, investors should be aware that the in line with the guidance appended to the Code.
Company is a focused producer of Platinum Group Metals and therefore, while this allows for economies Top-down and bottom-up risk reviews are carried through specialisation, Lonmin does not benefit from out in each area of the business involving the Board commodity diversification.
Further, since the and Executive Committee and operational and middle commodities Lonmin mines are all from one geographic managers respectively.
All senior managers are region, its performance is influenced by the political, responsible for managing and monitoring risks in their social and economic factors that affect South Africa.
area of responsibility and recording these in the risk This includes significant exposure to the USD ZAR register.
It is mandatory for this process to take place exchange rate.
As such, volatility in metal prices and at least once a year but in practice reviews often take exchange rates and changes in the socio-political place more frequently.
For each risk identified, environment in South Africa can have a material management assesses the root causes, consequences impact on the financial performance of the Company, and mitigating controls.
An assessment is then made which can be both positive and negative.
of the maximum risk exposure, taking into account the probability of the risk occurring and the impact before Risk tolerance mitigating controls.
Each of the business areas is Risk tolerance is an indication of the amount of risk supported by an Operational Risk Champion who a company is willing to accept in order to meet its co-ordinates all risk management activity in that strategic objectives.
This is reflected in a companys business area and ensures that actions are capacity to sustain losses and in its ability to continue implemented appropriately.
This process ensures all to meet its obligations under different trading risks are measured, monitored and reported on a conditions.
Lonmin has a matrix scoring system in consistent basis.
place in terms of which risks are rated based on their A significant portion of Lonmins risks relate to safety, likelihood and potential severity.
This severity can be the environment, labour and community relations, measured using financial, health and safety, social development and transformation.
To enhance environmental, stakeholder or legal criteria.
As such, focus in these areas, each business area has Lonmin measures more than just the potential financial dedicated personnel responsible for managing impact of risks.
These scores are then used to environmental and safety matters and monitoring escalate risks within the organisation as appropriate action plans.
In this way Lonmin ensures accountability and prompt mitigating actions to be taken.
These 01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Internal Controls and Risk Management [ 47] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Lonmins Top 15 Principal Risks Principal Risk Impact Mitigation 1 Failure of safety Could result in a catastrophic Commitment from the Board and management towards routines or safety loss of life, severely disrupt creating a safe culture throughout the Group.
The Safety & strategy operations either operationally Sustainability Committee monitors the implementation of the or through the issuance of safety strategy on behalf of the Board.
Processes in place for Section 54 notices and have a safe production include: material adverse effect on the Employee engagement strategy and safety training Groups financial position and if standards, both of which are monitored regularly: severe could result in Lonmins Clearly defined safety protocols including safe behaviour Mining Licence being revoked.
observations in place: Regular third party audits and peer reviews conducted: and Balanced scorecard measures incentivise appropriate safety behaviour.
2 Poor employee Could result in an unstable Following the strike in August and September 2012 Lonmin is relations influenced workforce that severely disrupts rebuilding relationships with employees.
This includes at by internal and operations such as through Company level a full engagement strategy with all unions and at external factors strikes and inter-union rivalry an industry level, discussions on moving to collective bargaining and have a material adverse for the platinum sector.
Rebuilding solid relationships and trust effect on the Groups financial will take time but is something that the Board and management position.
3 Poor community Civil unrest could severely A full engagement strategy with community representatives, relations influenced disrupt operations and have a unions and employees is in place.
The Board and management by external factors material adverse effect are committed to building solid relationships with local on the Groups financial communities to the benefit of all stakeholders.
4 Access to cost The Group may not be able to Headroom and key covenants in banking lines are constantly effective funding obtain cost effective funding monitored through rolling cash flow forecasts, as are treasury strong balance when required which could related risks such as interest rate and counter-party risks.
As sheet and treasury impact the ability of the Group announced in October 2012 Lonmin is looking to restructure its related risks to meet its liabilities as they balance sheet through a rights issue to improve its financial fall due.
This includes amending the current bank debt facilities to remove EBITDA covenants and replace these with Tangible Net Worth and Capex related covenants.
These covenants will more accurately reflect the solid asset underpin of Lonmin and remove covenant risk due to market volatility.
5 Social licence to Poor performance in meeting Following the strike in August and September 2012 Lonmins operate and Social & Labour plan targets reputation has been damaged.
We are co-operating fully with reputational risk and a weak reputation could the Farlam Commission to better understand the tragic events including Social result in deteriorating that occurred at Marikana so that we can address those issue & Labour Plan relationships with stakeholders we are responsible for to ensure we never again see a repeat.
and place mineral rights at risk We are also engaged with all our stakeholders including should Lonmins Mining employees, unions, communities, suppliers and the South Licence be revoked.
For the Social & Labour Plan targets are set and monitored on a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the Transformation Committee.
The Balanced Scorecard incentivises delivery against these targets.
6 Resource A negative outcome as a Ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders and government at all nationalism consequence of resource levels to understand and address concerns.
nationalism, which can take many different forms, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups future operational performance and financial position.
com Internal Controls and Risk Management Lonmin Plc [ 48] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Lonmins Top 15 Principal Risks continued Principal Risk Impact Mitigation 7 USD metal price Significant changes in the supply Lonmin gathers market information from a number of sources and currency and demand of PGMs e. g. if to monitor market segments and trends in the industry.
Longer volatility there is product substitution or term volume contracts with key customers mitigate off-take specifically US supply side constraints can risk.
Historically there has been a long-term correlation between Dollar SA Rand create volatility in PGM prices USD SA Rand and PGM basket price, although this can making long-term planning dislocate over short periods.
Current policy is not to hedge.
Likewise, significant fluctuations in exchange rates to which the Group is exposed can also make planning difficult and have a significant effect on the Groups financial position.
8 Uncompetitive Could have a material adverse Lonmin has a clear understanding of its competitive position gross or unit costs effect on the Groups and required productivity improvement plans.
Balanced Scorecard targets incentivise cost control.
9 Access to secure Could impact on the ability to Measurement of energy usage and energy saving initiatives energy, electricity run current operations and implemented.
Load shedding and contractual agreements with and water deliver future expansion plans.
Measurement of water usage and water saving initiatives implemented.
Plans aligned with long-term strategy.
Electricity and water supplies secured for key areas of the business.
Active participation in relevant industry bodies.
10 Skills shortages Lack of appropriate skills could Processes for individual development programmes, succession negatively impact upon safety, planning and scarce skills allowances are in place.
There is a production and the ability to focus on bursaries, graduate development and mentorship.
11 Theft of explosives, Could result in a catastrophic Continuous security vulnerability assessments, a code of ethics, copper cable and loss of life, severely disrupt whistle blowing procedures and compliance audits are in place.
product operations and have a material We work closely with relevant government agencies as well as adverse effect on the Groups with key stakeholders at all levels to minimise.
12 Failure to deliver Shareholder value may not be We have a strong capital projects department to manage and on long-term optimised over the long-term.
Borehole drilling, magnetic capital plans and surveys and 3D seismic surveys are done to ensure full failure to deliver understanding of the geology on Lonmin properties.
shareholder value Independent peer reviews of the long-term plan.
Balanced Scorecard incentivises appropriate reserve development.
13 Failure in internal Could severely disrupt Lonmin has a clear organisational structure with appropriate controls or operations and have a material segregation of duties and independent internal and external audits accounting adverse effect on the Groups with follow up.
The Internal Audit work plan is closely aligned to processes financial position.
the risk management framework and risk profile of the Group.
From an inventory evaluation perspective, grade targets are set and reported against.
Samples are analysed at the assay laboratory.
Stock counts carried out every six months, with the oversight of external and internal auditors.
14 Ineffective Could lead to a loss of life, There is a contractor hub, management procedures and basic contractor health concerns in local terms and conditions of service for all service providers in management communities, stoppage of place.
There is also an established Steercom Committee as operations and the possibility well as internal and external audits.
of the withdrawal of relevant licences and potential litigation.
15 Bad ground Significant changes to our Bore hole sampling and seismic surveys are conducted under conditions assessment of the quality and the supervision of specialist geologists coupled with Loss of reserves extent of our ore reserves could independent audits of reserves.
Quality in-house technical have a material adverse effect internal review processes.
on the Groups future operational performance and financial condition.
