OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT David Challen Understanding our key risks and developing Chairman, Audit Committee appropriate responses is critical to our future success.
We are committed to a robust system of risk identi cation and an effective response to such risks.
Anglo American assessment of strategic, operational, project and sustainable development related risks 1.
Reporting and monitoring A consistently applied controls to manage management actions Management is responsible for methodology is used to identify identi ed risks required monitoring progress of actions key risks across the Group: at Once identi ed, the process Effectiveness and adequacy to treat key risks and is business units, operations will evaluate identi ed risks to of controls are assessed.
supported through the Groups and projects.
This has been establish root causes, financial If additional controls are internal audit programme, effected through the and nonfinancial impacts required these will be identi ed which evaluates the design and development, roll-out and and likelihood of occurrence.
ongoing implementation of Consideration of risk treatments The risk management process a Group integrated risk is taken into account to is continuous, key risks are management standard.
enable the creation of a reported to the Audit prioritised register.
Committee with sustainability risk also being reported to the S&SD Committee.
HOW DOES RISK RELATE TO We also recognise that risks cannot HOW WE OUR STRATEGIC INTENTS?
Emergence of one risk may be caused by one or MANAGE RISK Risks can arise from events outside more other risks or may cause another of our control or from operational Management of risk is critical to risk to emerge.
Each of the key risks the success of Anglo American.
delivery risk can be in uenced by described on the following pages can Our Group is exposed to a variety risks relating to supply, in ation, have an impact on our ability to achieve of risks that can have a financial, political matters, legal and regulatory our strategic intents.
This is illustrated operational or reputational impact.
requirements, infrastructure or by reference to each of our strategic Effective management of risk community relations.
This intents: namely: supports the delivery of our interconnectivity and the relationship objectives and the achievement Investing in world class assets in of risks to our abovementioned of sustainable growth.
the most attractive commodities four strategic elements requires signi cant emphasis to be placed Organising ef ciently and effectively on the management of risk and the Operating safely, sustainably effectiveness of our risk controls, with and responsibly the identi cation and understanding of our risks being the first step in what is a Employing the best people.
As mining is a business that can span decades, many of its attendant risks are long term in nature, and there may not be any signi cant change year on year.
During 2012, however, we experienced changes in our risk pro le: these are indicated in each of our risk descriptions, with appropriate commentary where we have seen change.
48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 Change in risk during 2012 Increased risk E XTERNAL RISKS OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Page 32 No change in risk Decreased risk Linking to our 4 strategic pillars for more information COMMODITY PRICES LIQUIDITY RISK Commodity prices for all products that AngloAmerican produces Our Group is exposed to liquidity risk in terms of being able to are subject to wide uctuation.
Impact: Commodity price volatility can result in a material and Impact: If we are unable to obtain suf cient credit as a result of adverse movement in the Groups operating results, asset values, prevailing capital market conditions, we may not be able to raise revenues and cash ows.
Falling commodity prices could prevent suf cient funds to develop new projects, compete for new complex us from completing transactions that are important to the business projects requiring signi cant capital expenditure, fund acquisitions and which may have an adverse effect on Anglo Americans or meet our ongoing nancing needs.
As a result, our revenues, financial position e. g. the inability to sell assets at the values or operating results, cash ows or financial position may be within the timelines expected.
If commodity prices remain weak for a sustained period, our ability Root cause: Liquidity risk arises from uncertainty or volatility in to deliver growth in future years may be adversely affected as the capital or credit markets owing to perceived weaknesses of the growth projects may not be viable at lower prices, and we may global economic environment, or possibly as a response to shock not be able to compete for new, complex projects that require events.
Liquidity risk also arises when lenders are insecure about signi cant capital investment.
our long term cash generative capacity.
Root cause: Commodity prices are determined primarily by Mitigation: We have an experienced Treasury team which is international markets and global supply and demand.
Demand for responsible for ensuring that there are suf cient committed loan commodities will largely be determined by the strength of the facilities in place to meet short term business requirements after global economic environment.
taking into account cash ows from operations and holdings of cash, as well as any Group distribution restrictions that exist.
Mitigation: The diversi ed nature of the commodities that We limit exposure on liquid funds through a policy of minimum Anglo American produces provides some protection to this risk, counterparty credit ratings, daily counterparty settlement limits and our policy is not to engage in commodity price hedging.
We and exposure diversi cation.
constantly monitor the markets in which we operate, reviewing No change in risk capital expenditure programmes accordingly so as to ensure the INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 supply of our products re ects forecast market conditions.
OPERATING EMPLOYING Commentary: During 2012, prices in all the commodities we mine fell as a result of global economic weakness.
Further detail of price POLITICAL, LEGAL AND REGULATORY movements is provided on page 5.
Wherever we operate, our businesses may be affected by political Increased risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 or regulatory developments, including changes to scal regimes or OPERATING EMPLOYING other regulatory regimes.
Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions on the export of CLIMATE CHANGE currency, expropriation of assets, imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted at mining companies, and requirements for local Our operations are exposed to changes in climate and the need ownership or bene ciation.
Political instability can also result in to comply with changes in the regulatory environment aimed at civil unrest and nulli cation of existing agreements, mining permits reducing the effects of climate change.
Any of these may adversely affect the Groups operations Impact: Potential impacts from climate change are dif cult to or results of those operations.
assess and will depend on the circumstances at individual sites, Root cause: The Group has no control over local political acts or but could include increased rainfall, ooding, water shortages and changes in local tax rates.
It recognises that its licence to operate higher average temperatures.
These may increase costs, reduce through mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, production levels or impact the results of operations.
Policy developments at an international, national and sub-national Mitigation: The Group actively monitors regulatory and political level, including those related to the 1997 Kyoto Protocol and developments on a continuous basis.
subsequent international agreements and emissions trading schemes, could adversely affect the pro tability of the Group.
Commentary: During 2012 we saw new or increased taxes Regulatory measures may in uence energy prices, demand or the and royalties introduced in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, margins achieved for carbon intensive products such as coal.
South Africa and Zimbabwe, resolution of a legal dispute in Chile regarding the option over ownership of part of our Anglo American Root cause: Anglo American is a signi cant user of energy.
We are Sur assets and the loss of our mining concession in Venezuela.
also a major coal producer and exporter.
These matters are further explained on pages 62, 70 and 73 Mitigation: In addition to the initiatives to monitor and limit the respectively and all are indicative of a more dif cult political, legal impact of operations on the environment, we continuously seek to and regulatory environment.
reduce energy input levels at our operations.
Our asset optimisation Increased risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 programme seeks to make operations more energy ef cient.
OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Page 32 No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 49 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK E XTERNAL RISKS continued OPERATIONAL RISKS Linking to our 4 strategic pillars for more information Linking to our 4 strategic pillars for more information INFLATION HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group is exposed to potentially high rates of in ation in the Failure to maintain the high levels of safety management can countries in which it operates.
result in harm to our employees, contractors, communities near our operations and damage to the environment.
Impact: Higher rates of in ation may increase future operational costs if there is no concurrent depreciation of the local currency Occupational health risks to employees and contractors against the US dollar, or an increase in the dollar price of the include noise-induced hearing loss, occupational lung diseases applicable commodity.
This may have a negative impact on pro t margins and In sub-Saharan Africa in particular, HIV AIDS is a threat to financial results.
Root cause: Cost in ation in the mining sector is more apparent Impact: In addition to injury, health and environmental damage, during periods of high commodity prices as demand for input impacts could include fines and penalties, liability to employees goods and services can exceed supply.
or third parties, impairment of Anglo Americans reputation, industrial action or inability to attract and retain skilled employees.
Mitigation: We closely manage costs through our asset Government authorities may force closure of mines on a temporary optimisation and supply chain initiatives and, where necessary, or permanent basis or refuse mining right applications.
through adjusting employee and contractor numbers.
The recruitment and retention of skilled people required to meet Commentary: Despite commodity price reductions throughout growth aspirations can be affected by high rates of HIV AIDS.
2012, cost in ation in the mining sector continued during the period, which, combined with commodity price reductions, squeezed Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry and working operating margins.
Further detail is provided on pages 4247. conditions such as weather, altitude and temperature can add to the inherent dangers of mining, whether underground or in Increased risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 open pit mines.
OPERATING EMPLOYING Mitigation: Anglo American sets a very high priority on safety and health matters.
A safety risk management process, global standards and a safety and environment assurance programme COUNTERPARTY RISK form part of a consistently applied robust approach to mitigating The Group is exposed to counterparty risk from customers, safety risk.
certain suppliers and holders of cash.
Anglo American provides anti-retroviral therapy to employees Impact: Financial losses may arise should those counterparties with HIV AIDS and undertakes education and awareness become unable to meet their obligations to the Group.
programmes to help prevent infection or spread of infection.
Root cause: Severe economic conditions or shock events as No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING experienced in recent years can have a major impact on the ability OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING of financial institutions and other counterparties with whom we have relationships to meet their obligations.
Mitigation: Our Group Treasury team is responsible for managing ENVIRONMENT counterparty risk with banks where Anglo American places cash Certain of our operations create environmental risk in the form of deposits.
However, the Treasury operations of joint ventures dust, noise or leakage of polluting substances from site operations and associates are independently managed and may expose and uncontrolled breaches of tailings dam facilities, generating the Group to financial risks greater than the Groups own policies harm to our employees, contractors, the communities near our would permit.
operations, air quality, water purity and land contamination.
For other counterparty risks our businesses have credit Impact: Potential impacts include fines and penalties, statutory management procedures in place.
liability for environmental remediation and other financial No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 consequences that may be signi cant.
OPERATING EMPLOYING Governments may force closure of mines on a temporary or permanent basis or refuse future mining right applications.
Root cause: The mining process, including blasting and CURRENCY RISK processing of orebodies, can generate dust and noise and requires The Group is exposed to currency risk when transactions are the storage of waste materials in liquid form.
not conducted in US dollars.
Mitigation: The Group implements a number of initiatives to Impact: Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the most important monitor and limit the impact of its operations on the environment.
currencies in uencing our own operating costs and asset valuations No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING the South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, and pound sterling may materially affect the Groups OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING financial results.
Root cause: The global nature of the Groups businesses exposes the Group to currency risk.
Mitigation: Given the diversi ed nature of the Group, the Groups policy is generally not to hedge currency risk.
Mitigation in the form of foreign exchange hedging is limited to debt instruments and capital expenditure on major projects.
No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 OPERATING EMPLOYING 50 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 Change in risk during 2012 Increased risk OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Page 32 No change in risk Decreased risk EXPLORATION ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES Exploration and development are costly activities, with no Anglo Americans Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates guarantee of success, but are necessary for future growth.
are subject to a number of assumptions that may be incorrect.
Impact: Failure to discover and develop new mineral resources Impact: Deviations from the estimated price of commodities, of suf cient magnitude could have an adverse bearing on future production costs and mining and processing recovery rates results and the Groups financial condition.
may have an impact on the financial condition and prospects of the Group.
Root cause: Exploration and development are speculative activities and often take place in challenging or remote locations Root cause: All assumptions related to Ore Reserves and from a climate, altitude or political perspective.
Mineral Resources are long term in nature and are subject to volatility owing to economic, regulatory or political in uences.
Mitigation: The Group invests considerable sums each year in focused exploration programmes to enable resource discovery Mitigation: Anglo American is experienced in managing Ore and development to reserves.
This investment includes the use Reserves and Mineral Resources and has robust procedures in of leading technology in exploration activity.
place to reduce the likelihood of signi cant variation.
All factors are consistently monitored by management.
No change in risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 The Groups procedure on reporting of Ore Reserves and Mineral OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Resource estimates is summarised on page 191.
No change in risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 SUPPLY RISK OPERATING EMPLOYING The inability to obtain key consumables, raw materials, mining and processing equipment in a timely manner.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE AND PROJECT DELIVERY Impact: Any interruption to the Groups supplies or increase Failure to meet production targets or project delivery timetables in costs has a negative effect on our financial position and and budgets.
Root cause: During strong commodity cycles, increased Impact: Increased unit costs may arise from failure to meet demand can be experienced for such supplies, resulting in periods production targets, thus affecting our operational and financial when supplies are not always available to meet demand.
Failure to meet project delivery timetables and budgets may delay cash in ows, increase capital costs and Anglo American has limited in uence over manufacturers reduce pro tability, as well as have a negative impact on the and suppliers.
Mitigation: We take a proactive approach to developing Root cause: Increasing regulatory, environmental, access relationships with critical suppliers and to leveraging the Groups and social approvals can increase construction costs and purchasing power.
Contingency plans are developed to mitigate introduce delays.
Operational performance can be in uenced by technical and No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 engineering factors as well as events or circumstances that have OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING an impact on other critical inputs to the mining and processing of minerals.
Mitigation: Management oversight of operating performance CONTRACTORS and project delivery through regular executive management Inability to employ the services of contractors to meet business brie ngs, a continuous focus on improvement of operations needs or at expected cost levels.
through our asset optimisation programme, and consistent application of the companys methodology for new projects Impact: Disruption of operations or increased costs may arise are vital aspects in managing this risk.
if key contractors are not available to meet production needs.
Delays in start-up of new projects may also occur.
Commentary: While some of our growth projects ramped up production during 2012 as planned, our key project in Brazil, Root cause: Mining contractors are used at several Group Minas-Rio is behind schedule as a result of permit delays and legal operations to develop mining projects, mine and deliver ore to challenges, as described on pages 58 and 59.
In addition, some of processing plants.
In periods of high commodity prices, demand for our business units did not meet expected production volumes due contractors may exceed supply.
to operational performance challenges as indicated on page 43.
Mitigation: Effective planning and the establishment of effective Production performance was also affected by industrial strike working relationships with critical contractors help mitigate this risk.
action in South Africa as described on pages 57 and 80.
No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Increased risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 OPERATING EMPLOYING Page 32 OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Page 32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 51 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RISK OPERATIONAL RISKS continued Linking to our 4 strategic pillars for more information EVENT RISK BUSINESS INTEGRITY Damage to physical assets from re, explosion, natural Failure to prevent acts of fraud, bribery, corruption or catastrophe or breakdown of critical machinery.
Impact: The direct costs of repair or replacement combined Impact: Potential impacts include prosecution, fines, penalties with business interruption losses can result in financial losses.
Root cause: Some of our operations are located in areas exposed Anglo American may suffer financial loss if it is the victim of a to natural catastrophes such as earthquake extreme weather fraudulent act.
The impact of climate change may intensify the Root cause: In certain countries where the Group operates the severity of weather events.
risk of corruption is high, as indicated by indices prepared by The nature of our operations exposes us to potential failure independent non-governmental organisations NGOs.
of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls, re, explosion Mitigation: Anglo American has very clear principles on the and breakdown of critical machinery, with long lead times manner in which it conducts its business and expects all for replacement.
employees to act in accordance with its values.
Policies, Mitigation: Specialist consultants are engaged to analyse such procedures and awareness programmes are in place to ensure event risks on a rotational basis and provide recommendations consistent understanding of the Groups expectations.
for management action in order to prevent or limit the effects of The Groups internal control environment is designed to prevent such a loss.
fraud and is regularly reviewed by an internal audit team to provide Contingency plans are developed to respond to signi cant events assurance that controls are designed and operating effectively.
and restore normal levels of business activity.
Anglo American Commentary: The continued implementation of our programme purchases insurance to protect itself against the financial of measures to raise awareness, understanding and management consequences of an event, subject to availability and cost.
of bribery risk during 2012 should have a positive impact in No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING reducing the likelihood of this risk materialising.
The global spread of our business, however, means we can never eliminate this risk.
OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Decreased risk INVESTING ORGANISING OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING EMPLOYEES The ability to recruit, develop and retain appropriate skills for the Group.
JOINT VENTURES Strikes or other industrial relations disputes frequently occur.
Failure to achieve expected standards of health, safety and environment performance in joint ventures.
Impact: Failure to retain skilled employees or to recruit new staff may lead to increased costs, interruptions to existing operations Impact: If similar standards are not implemented in joint ventures, and delay in new projects.
higher costs or lower production may result and have a bearing on operational results, asset values or the Groups reputation.
Industrial disputes have an adverse effect on production levels, costs and the results of operations.
Root cause: Some of the Groups operations are controlled and managed by joint venture partners, associates or by other Root cause: We are subject to global competition for skilled companies.
Management of non-controlled assets may not labour.
Our assets and development projects are often in remote comply with the Groups standards.
places or in countries where it is a challenge to recruit suitably skilled employees.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by way of a thorough evaluation process before commitment to any joint In the key countries where the Group operates, the majority of venture and through implementation of ongoing governance employees are members of trade unions.
Negotiations over processes in existing joint ventures.
wage levels or working conditions can sometimes fail to result in agreement.
Commentary: During 2012, we completed the acquisition of the Oppenheimer family shares in the fide Beers business, which Mitigation: Anglo Americans objective is to be the employer of includes a number of joint ventures.
We also completed the Tarmac choice in the mining sector.
A comprehensive human resources joint venture with Lafarge in early 2013, refer page 89.
Thus, as strategy has been devised to support that objective, focused on the the number of joint ventures in the Group increases, the pro le of attraction, retention and development of talented employees and this risk has increased in consequence.
the effective deployment of talent across the Group.
The Group seeks constructive relationships and dialogue with trade unions Increased risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 and employees in all its businesses.
OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Commentary: During the second half of 2012 we suffered from strike action in our Platinum and Kumba Iron Ore business units in South Africa.
These strikes had a signi cant impact on production levels as described on pages 57 and 80.
Decreased risk INVESTING ORGANISING OPERATING EMPLOYING Page 32 52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS COMMUNITY RELATIONS Failure to achieve expected bene ts from any acquisition or value Disputes with communities may arise from time to time.
from assets or businesses sold.
Impact: Failure to manage relationships with local communities, Impact: Failing to deliver expected bene ts from acquisitions can government and NGOs may disrupt operations and negatively result in adverse financial performance, lower production volumes affect Anglo Americans reputation as well as our ability to bring or problems with product quality.
The Group could nd itself liable projects into production.
for past acts or omissions of the acquired business without any Root cause: We operate in several countries where ownership adequate right of redress.
of rights in respect of land and resources is uncertain and where Failure to achieve expected values from the sale of assets or disputes in relation to ownership or other community matters delivery beyond expected receipt of funds may result in higher may arise.
debt levels, underperformance of those businesses and possible The Groups operations can have an impact on local communities, loss of key personnel.
including the need, from time to time, to relocate communities or Root cause: Bene ts may not be achieved as a result of changing infrastructure networks such as railways and utility services.
or incorrect assumptions or materially different market conditions Mitigation: We have developed comprehensive processes to or fide ciencies in the due diligence process.
enable our business units to effectively manage relationships with Delays in the sale of assets or reductions in value may arise due to communities and we actively seek to engage with all communities changing market conditions.
No change in risk Mitigation: Rigorous guidelines are applied to the evaluation and INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 execution of all acquisitions, including those that require the OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING approval of the Investment Committee and Group Management Committee and, subject to size, the Board.
Commentary: The acquisition of Oppenheimer family shares in fide Beers has enabled bene ts to be identi ed that will be delivered during the integration process.
This acquisition increases the pro le of this risk.
Please refer to pages 8385 for further detail.
Increased risk INVESTING Page 14 ORGANISING Page 18 OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING INFRASTRUCTURE Inability to obtain adequate supporting facilities, services and installations water, power, road, rail and port, etc.. Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities may affect the sustainability and growth of the business, leading to loss of competitiveness, market share and reputation.
Failure of rail or port facilities may result in delays and increased costs as well as lost revenue and reputation with customers.
Failure to procure shipping costs at competitive market rates may reduce pro t margins.
Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing generation and supply of power is a risk faced by Anglo American in a number of countries in which it operates.
Our operations and projects can be located in countries or regions where power and water supplies are not certain and may be affected by population growth, the effects of climate change or lack of investment by owners of infrastructure.
We rely upon effective rail and port facilities for transporting our products and will be expected to provide shipment of product in some circumstances to customers premises.
We use third parties to provide these services.
Mitigation: We seek to work closely with suppliers of infrastructure to mitigate the risk of failure and have established contingency arrangements.
Long term agreements with suppliers are sought where appropriate.
No change in risk INVESTING ORGANISING Page 18 OPERATING Page 22 EMPLOYING Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 53
