Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 20.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Liabilities at fair value Derivatives through Other used for profit or financial hedging loss liabilities Total At 1 October 2011 m m m m Liabilities as per the balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 135.2 17.6 152.8 Borrowings 1,177.4 1,177.4 Trade payables 56.1 56.1 Other payables 16.6 16.6 135.2 17.6 1,250.1 1,402.9 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market, such as over-the-counter derivatives, is determined using valuation techniques.
The Group obtains such valuations from counterparties who use a variety of assumptions based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet date.
The fair values of all financial instruments are equal to their book values, with the exception of borrowings note 17.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables, other receivables and trade loans, and the carrying value of trade payables and other payables, are assumed to approximate their fair values.
Fair value hierarchy IFRS 7 requires fair value measurements to be recognised using a fair value hierarchy that reects the signicance of the inputs used in the measurements, according to the following levels: Level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
The table below shows the level in the fair value hierarchy into which fair value measurements have been categorised: 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets as per the balance sheet m m m m m m m m Derivative financial instruments 13.7 13.7 2012 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities as per the balance sheet m m m m m m m m Derivative financial instruments 201.4 201.4 152.8 152.8 There were no transfers between Levels 1, 2 and 3 fair value measurements during the current or prior period.
Over the life of the Groups derivative financial instruments, the cumulative fair value gain loss on those instruments will be nil as it is the Groups intention to hold them to maturity.
Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including interest rate risk and foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identies, evaluates and hedges financial risks.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specic areas, such as interest rate risk, credit risk, investment of excess liquidity and use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
76 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes continued For the 52 weeks ended 29 September 2012 20.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Interest rate risk: The Groups income and operating cash ows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates, and as such the Groups interest rate risk arises from its long-term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash ow interest rate risk.
Borrowings issued at xed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group analyses its interest rate exposure on a dynamic basis.
Various scenarios are simulated taking into consideration renancing, renewal of existing positions, alternative nancing and hedging.
Based on these scenarios, the Group calculates the impact on the income statement of a dened interest rate shift.
The scenarios are run only for liabilities that represent the major interest-bearing positions.
The Group manages its cash ow interest rate risk by using oating-to-xed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from oating rates to xed rates.
Generally, the Group raises long-term borrowings at oating rates and swaps them into xed rates that are lower than those available if the Group borrowed at xed rates directly.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between xed contract rates and oating rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower during the period ended 29 September 2012, with all other variables held constant, post-tax loss profit for the period would have been 0.3 million lower higher 2011: 0.2 million higher lower as a result of higher lower 2011: lower higher interest expense.
Interest rate swaps designated as part of a hedging arrangement The Group uses interest rate swaps to x the interest rate payable on the oating rate tranches of its securitised debt note 19.
The notional principal amounts of these interest rate swap contracts at 29 September 2012 totalled 449.3 million 2011: 470.7 million.
These interest rate swaps, including borrowing margins, x interest at 6.2% and 6.0%.
The movement in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income in the period was a loss of 28.5 million 2011: 26.6 million.
On 22 March 2012 the Group entered into two forward starting interest rate swaps of 60.0 million each to x the interest rate payable on the Groups unsecured bank borrowings.
The interest rate swaps commenced on 27 April 2012, x interest at 4.1% and terminate on 30 April 2020.
In total, the fair value of these two new swaps at inception was 18.9 million note 4.
The movement in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income in the period was a loss of 5.6 million 2011: nil.
Interest rate swaps not designated as part of a hedging arrangement On 1 October 2007 the Group entered into two interest rate swaps of 70.0 million each to x the interest rate payable on the Groups unsecured bank borrowings.
These interest rate swaps x interest at 5.5% and 5.6% and terminate on 1 October 2014.
The movement in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period was a gain of 3.9 million 2011: 3.1 million.
On 22 March 2012 the Group entered into four new xed to oating interest rate swaps of 35.0 million each.
In total, these swaps are equal and opposite to the above two oating to xed interest rate swaps of 70.0 million each.
The total fair value of the four new swaps at inception was 15.1 million note 4.
The movement in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period was a loss of 1.4 million 2011: nil.
On 20 May 2009 the Group entered into a forward starting interest rate swap of 20.0 million.
This interest rate swap commenced on 9 August 2010, xes interest at 3.3% and terminates on 8 August 2013.
At the prior period end this swap was designated as a cash ow hedge of the forecast oating rate interest payments arising on the first 20.0 million of borrowings under the Groups previous bank facility.
During the current period the Group entered into a new bank facility and as such these forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur.
Therefore the cumulative hedging loss of 0.8 million that was reported in equity has been transferred to the income statement.
The movement in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income in the period was a gain of 0.1 million 2011: 0.3 million.
The movement in fair value recognised in the income statement in the period was a gain of 0.4 million 2011: nil.
The interest rate risk prole, after taking account of derivative financial instruments, is as follows: 2012 2011 Floating Fixed Floating Fixed rate rate rate rate financial financial financial financial liabilities liabilities Total liabilities liabilities Total m m m m m m Borrowings 35.0 1,158.4 1,193.4 1,189.4 1,189.4 The weighted average interest rate of the xed rate financial borrowings was 5.4% 2011: 5.5% and the weighted average period for which the rate is xed was 16 years 2011: 6 years.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 77 20.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Foreign currency risk: The Group buys and sells goods denominated in non-sterling currencies, principally US dollars and euros.
As a result, movements in exchange rates can affect the value of the Groups income and expenditure.
The Groups exposure in this area is not considered to be significant.
Counterparty risk: The Groups counterparty risk in respect of its cash and cash equivalents is mitigated by the use of various banking institutions for its deposits.
There is no significant concentration of counterparty risk in respect of the Groups pension assets, as these are held with a range of institutions.
Credit risk: Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
If customers are independently rated, these ratings are used.
Otherwise, if there is no independent rating, an assessment is made of the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors.
Individual credit limits are set based on internal or external ratings in accordance with limits set by the Board.
The utilisation of and adherence to credit limits is regularly monitored.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables, other receivables and trade loans has been estimated by management following a review of individual receivable accounts and is based on prior experience and known factors at the balance sheet date after taking into account collateral held in the form of cash deposits and xtures and ttings.
Receivables are written off against the provision for impairment when management considers that the debt is no longer recoverable.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of its customers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable.
Liquidity risk: The Group applies a prudent liquidity risk management policy, which involves maintaining sufficient cash, ensuring the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and having the ability to close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury maintains the availability of committed credit lines to ensure that the Group has exibility in funding.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity reserve comprising undrawn borrowing facilities and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash ow.
In addition, the Groups liquidity management policy involves maintaining debt nancing plans, projecting cash ows and considering the level of liquid assets necessary to meet these, and monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against internal and external regulatory requirements.
The Groups borrowing covenants are subject to regular review.
The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities and non-settled derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
