BUSINESS REVIEW Above: Meggitts sensors and conditionmonitoring systems help reduce emissions Sensing Systems and improve the fuel ef ciency of GE Aviations GEnx advanced turbofan engine.
GEnx, which powers the Boeing 787 and 747-8 aircraft, also One of the worlds leading providers of high carries Meggitt control valves, heat exchangers and seals.
performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high value rotating machinery and other assets.
Revenue Markets Growth strategy Civil aerospace: large, regional Continue to invest in high performance and business jets, general aviation sensing technologies and space 258.1M Combine them with advanced Military: xed wing and rotary processing electronics, delivering aircraft, ships condition-monitoring systems that Energy Underlying operating pro t reduce gas turbine operating costs, Medical, automotive, test and optimise maintenance regimes and measurement reduce pollution 45.0M Apply our products and expertise beyond aero-engines to wider Capabilities applications across the airframe and Percentage of group revenue next-generation integrated vehicle High performance sensing in extreme health management solutions environments Condition-monitoring for air and landDevelop energy segment business based machinery through continued innovation and expanded geographical presence 22% Optimise product cost base through supply chain management Continually improve operations to deliver ef ciencies, developing critical mass in programme management and engineering resources 18 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 18 18 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 Meggitt sensing systems and Meggitt awlessly on the Gulfstream G650s Operational highlights aerospace equipment created a tyre maiden ight.
We launched iSFD, an Meggitt sensing systems represents pressure monitoring system for integrated secondary ight display, 22% of total revenues, of which 72% integration into Meggitt wheels and quickly securing contracts from come from original equipment and 28% brakes.
This responds to operators Bombardier for the LearJet 85 business from the aftermarket.
Its civil aerospace growing interest in performance data jets, several new helicopter build markets were affected by the same and represents an important step programmes, including Korea Aerospace factors in uencing Meggitts aerospace forward in extending Meggitts condition Industries Surion helicopter and equipment division, while this was partly monitoring technology from engines to Boeings Apache AH-64 Block 3 upgrade.
offset by continued growth in military the airframe.
iSFD will be installed in the HondaJet sales.
Meggitt businesses serving type certi cation aircraft.
the consumer goods and automotive The package of multiple Meggitt sensors sectors were particularly hard hit by the to Hamilton Sundstrand for the Pratt Sales from our energy markets grew global downturn, with revenues in these & Whitney revolutionary PurePower despite the global downturn, helped by sectors down 26% 35% at constant PW1000G geared turbofan engine for our growing presence in India, which exchange rates.
However, signi cant the Bombardier CSeries, the Mitsubishi led to approved supplier status from cost cutting combined with currency Regional Jet and the Russian Irkut MCkey partners and condition-monitoring bene ts saw revenues and underlying 21 aircraft, secures a key position on an contracts with several power projects.
operating pro ts fall by only 4%.
engine platform being considered for The superior performance and unique next generation single aisle aircraft.
We combustion analysis capabilities of We won a contract to supply Rolls Royce won a package of smart sensors on the InSight, a condition-monitoring system with the engine health-monitoring Airbus A350 XWB, providing primary upgrade for land-based turbines, system on the Airbus A350 XWB data for the ight, motion control and resulted in positive customer feedback.
programme, maintaining our record of back-up of the y-by-wire control Although the automotive and consumer all western large passenger aircraft in systems.
This contract is expected to goods sectors experienced extremely production specifying Meggitts engine generate revenues exceeding 100 tough trading conditions through 2009, condition-monitoring systems.
Our million over the life of the programme.
there were some signs of improvement presence in helicopter health monitoring Previous contract wins moved forward.
in the automotive sector towards the end continued with strong sales for Black We delivered our first integrated sensor of the year.
Hawk and new contracts for sensors on and ignition package for the Rollsthe CH53K Super Stallion and mid-size Royce BR725 engine which performed Sikorsky S-76D and Eurocopter UH-72A.
Meggitt Sensing Systems witzerlands Bieudron hydro-electric power station is Diagnostics check for worlds Sdriven by the worlds highest pressure, most powerful most powerful turbines Pelton turbine.
We are monitoring its condition just as we monitor the worlds largest steam and gas turbines.
When the water ow is turned on, the turbine takes about one minute to get up to speed.
Three Pelton wheels resonate like guitar strings and deliver a massive 423 MW each the power of around 4,000 family cars.
The characteristics of these resonances reveal important information about turbine health the key to planning maintenance and sustaining the reliability of these critical machines.
InSight, a development of Meggitts VM600 engine monitoring system, records these resonances, extracting extremely high resolution data in the short spin-up cycle.
It integrates multiple sensor modules, including our combustion monitoring and blade tip clearance tools, and interfaces with other control and information systems.
This makes it the worlds most powerful diagnostic solution Above: Henry Reinmann, Director, Energy, with a Pelton wheel from the Bieudron hydro-electric power station.
In a cavern in the Swiss Alps, the for the worlds most powerful machines.
1,269 MW plant is a spectacular application for Meggitts Insight conditionmonitoring systems.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 19 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
