CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors hereby submit their annual report and the audited There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on holding ordinary financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Group shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
There financial statements have been prepared in accordance with are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by EU-adopted International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, persons other than holders of the shares and no known agreements on International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired interpretations and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to through Company share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company financial statements with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted The Company has disclosed signi cant direct or indirect holdings, Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006. which are published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Section 417 Companies Act 2006 requires that certain information be Companys website.
included in the Directors Report.
The information contained in the Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company directors Business Review pages 1 to 29 which ful ls this requirement is are contained in the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be therefore incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
submitted to the shareholders for approval.
The powers of directors are set out in the Memorandum and Articles and are governed by Principal activities applicable legislation.
At each Annual General Meeting AGM of the Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Company, the shareholders are requested to renew the directors Exchange, incorporated in England and Wales with the registered powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value speci ed in number 432989.
Its registered of ce is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park the notice of meeting and to renew the directors powers to allot West, Bournemouth International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, securities without the application of pre-emption rights up to the value BH23 6EW.
speci ed in the notice of meeting in accordance with Article 4 of the Articles.
The Company can seek authority from the shareholders at the Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal AGM to purchase its own shares.
activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high technology products and systems for the aerospace, defence and other The Group has the following signi cant facility agreements that specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, test and include change of control provisions which, should there be a change automotive.
of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
These are a USD 680 million revolving Dividends credit agreement dated July 2004, a USD 1,420 million revolving credit agreement dated March 2007 and a USD 500 million revolving credit The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.75p net agreement dated July 2008.
There are a number of other long-term per ordinary 5p share 2008: 5.75p, to be paid on 7 May 2010 to those commercial agreements that may alter or terminate upon a change members on the register at close of business on 12 March 2010. of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
None is considered An interim dividend of 2.70p 2008: 2.70p was paid on 2 October 2009. to be signi cant in terms of potential impact on the Groups business If the final dividend as recommended is approved the total ordinary as a whole.
dividend for the year will amount to 8.45p net per share 2008: 8.45p.
The service contracts for the executive directors state that if there Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax credit is a change of control in the Company, executive directors may of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rate income tax will have terminate their employment within six months and would be entitled to additional tax to pay.
compensation from the Company for loss of of ce.
The compensation would be annual remuneration plus the value of bene ts for the Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative under the unexpired notice period less 5%.
share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final dividend.
The Company does not have any agreements with the non-executive During 2009, the Company made the Meggitt PLC share dividend plan directors or any other employees that would provide compensation for available for the dividends paid in May 2009 the final dividend for 2008 loss of of ce or employment resulting from a takeover except that and in October 2009 the interim dividend for 2009.
The cash dividend provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or necessary to give an entitlement to one new ordinary share was xed awards granted to employees under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Con icts of interest Acquisitions and disposals Following the amendment of the Articles by a special resolution passed There were no acquisitions or signi cant disposals during the year.
at the AGM held in 2008, the Company adopted a new procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors Share capital and control con icts of interest and potential con icts of interest, in accordance The authorised share capital of the Company at 31 December 2009 plus with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The new procedure was details of shares issued during the financial year is shown in note 36 summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM in 2008, is on page 82.
On 31 December 2009 there were 685,332,586 ordinary included in the Articles and has been adhered to by the Board since 1 shares in issue.
A further 66,240 ordinary shares were issued between October 2008.
In deciding whether to authorise a con ict or potential 31 December 2009 and 24 February 2010 as a result of the exercise of con ict the directors must have regard to their general duties under the share options.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Companies Act 2006.
The authorisation of any con ict matter, and the Exchange.
terms of authorisation are reviewed by the Board as appropriate and as a minimum, on an annual basis.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is available for inspection at the registered of ce.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise full voting rights.
32 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
indd 32 32 11 03 2010 11 03 2010 04:31 04:31 The directors encourage employees to become shareholders to Substantial shareholdings improve active participation in and commitment to the Groups At 24 February 2010 the Company had been noti ed under the success.
This policy has been pursued for all UK employees through Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
It is estimated FSA of the following substantial interests in the issued ordinary that when the current years allocation of free shares has been shares of the Company requiring disclosure: made under the Share Incentive Plan, approximately 80% of our UK employees will hold shares in the Company.
As at the year end, Percentage of 40% of our UK employees were contributing monthly to one or more total voting rights attaching Sharesave accounts.
to the issued ordinary share Senior executives across the Group are granted awards under the Direct voting Indirect voting capital of the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Equity Participation Plan rights rights Company details of which can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 Prudential plc 68,324,039 9.97 to 44.
Baillie Gifford & Co 34,138,890 4.98 Legal & General Group plc 25,966,967 3.79 Health and safety at work Standard Life Investments Ltd 22,153,694 3,769,560 3.78 The Company continues to carry out its responsibilities for securing the health, safety and welfare at work of employees and for protecting One voting right per ordinary share.
others against risks to health and safety relating to the activities at work of those employees.
Every reasonable effort is made to provide Share Incentive Plan safe working conditions.
Protective equipment is provided and safety The Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan has been allocated 0.6 million training takes place regularly.
The Board has approved a Group Health from 2009 pro ts to acquire ordinary shares in Meggitt PLC for eligible and Safety Policy, and appointed a Group manager of Health, Safety employees 2008: 0.7 million.
In 2009, we improved our health and safety programme by rolling out on-line training for all UK employees.
We are Directors and their interests piloting a similar programme in the US and aim to provide such training at all our facilities worldwide.
In addition, a speci c GroupThe directors who served during the year were: Sir Colin Terry, wide training module was released for senior managers and we Mr T Twigger, Sir Alan Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, introduced quarterly health and safety bulletins for all employees and Mr D M Williams and Mr S G Young.
a manual of health and safety procedures.
In accordance with Article 75 of the Articles, Sir Colin Terry, Mr T Twigger and Mr D M Williams retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being Equal opportunities eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Sir Alan Cox retires at the The Group has a policy supporting the principle of equal opportunities forthcoming AGM in compliance with A.
7.2 of the Combined Code 2008, in employment and opposing all forms of unlawful or unfair having served as a director for more than nine years and, being eligible, discrimination.
Having regard to his appointment as a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc on 1 February 2010, Mr P J Disabled employees Hill has con rmed to the Board that he will be standing down as an independent non-executive director on 31 March 2010.
The recruitment It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from process for a replacement has begun, and the Board will appoint a new disabled people, to continue wherever possible to employ staff who non-executive director as soon as possible.
become disabled and to provide opportunities for the training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
Details of directors contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on Ethics and business conduct pages 38 to 44.
None of the directors has or has had at any time during the financial year a bene cial interest in any material contract relating The Group has an Ethics and Business Conduct Policy and a Code of to the business of the Group other than service contracts.
Conduct, which were revised in September 2007.
All employees have received a copy of the Code, supplemented by follow-up training, which The directors have the bene t of qualifying third-party indemnity is refreshed regularly.
Ethics and business conduct is reviewed provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 regularly by a Board committee.
Community relations and charitable donations Corporate responsibility Charitable donations made by the Group during the year amounted The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical to 0.1 million 2008: 0.1 million.
The Company made charitable matters.
A report giving a full update on activities and achievements donations of 19,000 2008: 14,000.
Throughout the Group during 2009 is found on pages 22 to 25.
The following matters fall nonfinancial assistance was provided to a wide range of local under the broad fide nition of corporate responsibility: organisations.
People Payment policy The Company regards employee communication as a vital business The Companys policy is to seek to comply with the terms of payment function.
Communication is carried out at facilities by operations agreed with a supplier.
Where terms are not negotiated, the Company directors and other line managers using a variety of forums from daily endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Companys standing meetings on shopoors to monthly Town Hall functions, creditor days at 31 December 2009 were 24 2008: 27. team brie ngs and works councils.
We have good working relationships with our trade unions and ensure that all employee relations regulations are respected.
Corporate communications take a variety of forms, including presentations from the Chief Executive via audio-visual, global web-enabled conferences, publications such as the Meggitt Review and a variety of electronically distributed newsletters.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 33 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
indd 33 33 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:22 14:22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued Corporate responsibility continued Disclosure of information to auditors At the date of this report, as far as the directors are aware, there is Political contributions no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are In accordance with the Groups policy, no contributions were made to unaware.
Each director has taken all the necessary steps in order to EU political parties or EU political organisations 2008: Nil and no EU make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish political expenditure exceeding 2,000 was incurred in the year by the that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Company or any of its subsidiaries 2008: none above 2,000.
Statement of directors responsibilities No contributions to non-EU organisations with political objectives were made during the year 2008: 15,300.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with Research and development applicable law and regulations.
The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements development programmes which enhance the Groups products and for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to the way they are made.
Including amounts funded by customers, prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with EU-adopted expenditure on research and development amounted to 85.2 million IFRSs, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance 2008: 78.8 million.
Excluding amounts funded by customers, it with UK GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable was 66.0 million 2008: 59.4 million, of which 35.1 million 2008: law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial 23.7 million was capitalised in accordance with the Groups statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view accounting policy see note 2 of the Groups financial statements.
of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial Financial risk management statements, the directors are required to: Policies on financial risk management are set out in note 3 of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Groups financial statements.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 2010 Annual General Meeting state whether EU-adopted IFRSs and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures Details of the AGM on 21 April 2010 and explanations of the proposed disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial resolutions appear in the separate Notice of AGM which is provided to statements respectively.
shareholders in their elected format at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM, and can be viewed on the e-communications page The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records of our website www.
In addition to ordinary business, that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and shareholders consent will be sought to: disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the i approve the Remuneration Report: financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the ii renew the authority of the directors to issue shares under Article 4 Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, of the Articles: Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and iii approve payments to organisations of no more than 60,000 in total, the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention which might inadvertently be interpreted as donations to EU and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
political organisations under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 as amended by the Electoral Administration The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Act 2006.
It is not the policy of the Company to make donations to Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the political parties and the directors have no intention of changing that preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from policy: legislation in other jurisdictions.
iv approve the convening of general meetings on 14 clear days notice Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the in accordance with the Articles, notwithstanding the changes made Board of directors on pages 30 and 31 con rm that, to the best of their to the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies Shareholders knowledge: Rights Regulations 2009: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in v renew the Share Dividend Plan: and accordance with EU-adopted IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group: and vi approve amendments to the Articles to take account of the coming the Directors Report and Business Review on pages 1 to 29 includes into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations a fair review of the development and performance of the business 2009, the implementation of the final parts of the Companies Act and the position of the Group, together with a description of the 2006 and amendments to the Uncerti ed Securities Regulations principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Auditors  LLP has expressed its willingness to continue as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
M L Young Company Secretary 1 March 2010 34 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Back Section.
