Group strategy The strategy that underpins our highly successful business continues to hold good sustaining leading positions in our core aerospace, defence and energy markets with smart engineering for extreme environments.
Now we are accelerating the transformation of our group, creating one costeffective global team positioned for long-term growth.
Meggitts future continues to lie in smart our stakeholders.
This is why, under team our markets demand and enable engineering for extreme environments the banner of Transformation, we us to create even greater cost synergies our offer across our core aerospace, accelerated the restructuring of our when we integrate future acquisitions.
The group in 2009, cutting cost in the strategy that underpins it continues to downturn, while laying the foundations Balanced portfolio hold good, enabling us to deliver another for Meggitts future success.
All this ows from a position of strength.
strong set of results in a dif cult We are creating five new divisions to Meggitt is a stable and robust business economic environment.
align our core capabilities and provide whose balanced portfolio continues the management focus required to to serve it well.
While commercial Strategy optimise performance and deliver aircraft build rates may slow in times We aim to win positions on new long-term growth.
Four fully-integrated of recession, aircraft continue to y platforms, preferably as the sole-source divisions will manage our polymers with Meggitt components and systems supplier, in markets where our products and composites, thermal management onboard, requiring Meggitt spares operate in harsh environments and and uid control, aircraft braking and repair services.
Our products are where certi cation requirements are systems and sensing systems on a wide range of military aircraft demanding and track records important.
A fifth division will enable and land vehicles which also require This leads to recurring revenue streams our smaller capabilities to maintain their support.
While energy markets are from spares and repairs that last strategic focus, develop the capabilities volatile, demand for the monitoring and between 20 and 40 years.
they need to retain their leading market diagnostic systems designed by us to cut positions and bene t from the wider emissions and optimise performance Our tried-and-tested business model Meggitt groups investment in shared on large rotating machines, continues is manifested in our balanced portfolio.
By balancing revenues from original equipment manufacturers with revenues Standalone business units within the Poised for growth from the aftermarket and revenues divisions will increasingly become from civil aerospace markets with production facilities their primary With our business balanced between military and energy business, we limit aim will be to optimise cost, quality and within our markets and our exposure to single market segments and delivery and we are removing transformation in process, I con dently and platforms.
Our facilities expect Meggitt to continue to cope will be supported by strong divisional with the current economic climate and We invest in the technologies our management who will develop and build a business equipped to meet the customers want and we acquire manage the interaction between increasingly demanding requirements of companies to extend our capabilities key functions and the vital business our customers in the years ahead.
and fast-track product and market processes needed to meet development.
We develop facilities in key locations The whole organisation will be around the world, supporting our supported by stronger functions customers locally and addressing at group level as we invest in the opportunities in emerging markets.
infrastructure, shared services and common processes our facilities need Transformation to become more competitive.
Terry Twigger Today, we are managing Meggitt through In summary, we are transforming Chief Executive a time of great economic challenge ourselves from a set of strong, individual and uncertainty.
We must maintain businesses into one high performance the investments our businesses engineering group.
This will equip us to need and meet the expectations of operate cost-effectively as the global MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 05 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
