BUSINESS REVIEW Above: The M1 Abrams main battle tank carries Meggitts advanced automatic Defence Systems ammunition-handling equipment and specialist thermal management systems that cool the crew and enhance the reliability of the vehicles An international livere and simulation training sophisticated electronic systems.
and combat systems business positioned to meet the challenges of modern con ict.
Revenue Markets Growth strategy Military aircraft and ground vehicles Become a preferred supplier Armed forces, law enforcement and worldwide for integrated and security organisations networked live and virtual training 147.1M packages supporting the lead systems Underlying operating pro t integrators Capabilities ful lling the training needs of police Integrated training systems forces and security organisations Precision-mechanical combat 20.4M systems responding to homeland security Integrated environmental control requirements systems Percentage of group revenue Become the preferred supplier worldwide for electronics cooling ammunition-handling and specialist precision-mechanical combat systems Continue to optimise operations 13% 20 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
New contract Singapore Armed Forces to upgrade Operational highlights wins in 2009 included the ammunition existing marksmanship trainers and Meggitts defence systems division feed system and supporting ammunition provide additional simulated weaponry represents 13% of group revenues loader for the AH-1W Z Cobra attack for their training centre.
and 28% of group military revenues.
The initial contract, worth 77% of total business comes from We continued to support Lockheed $5 million, will begin deliveries in the original equipment and 23% from the Martins recon gurable vehicle system final quarter of 2010.
Revenues in constant simulator, the US Army standard for could reach $35 million over five years.
currency declined by less than 1%, virtual convoy training, and received largely due to reduced revenue from New electronic cooling contract wins orders worth $4 million to develop the Singapore Coastguards integrated included an initial contract for the key weapons training modules for the tactical training centre.
Operating forward array cooling system on the systems convoy training scenarios.
margins fell slightly in line with the P-8 Poseidon, Boeings multi mission These modules can support a simulation constant currency revenue decline.
We continued to of up to six military ground vehicles, deliver against the $45 million contract developing leadership and teamwork, The division, which represents the for new and repaired M1A2 SEP Abrams while instilling a set of procedural groups non-aerospace defencemain battle tanks and the thermal responses to convoy situations such as related businesses, continued to management system for the infrared ambush and IEDs.
lead its market segments in specialsearch and track capability on the F-18 Training systems launched and sold purpose military electronics cooling, Hornet ghter jet.
Customer-funded an innovative next generation portable automatic ammunition-handling and development activity enabled us to simulator targeting, initially, the US law live and simulated training for weaponsprogress a lightweight yet powerful enforcement market.
The simulator, handling, convoy movement, forward air electronics cooling system for a next which can be transported to training control and coastguard and other patrol generation unmanned ground vehicle locations in the back of US police disciplines.
department cruisers, supports a wide The divisions linkless feed system Our training systems business range of rearms training, is around continued to reinforce its position concluded its largest single integration 50% lighter than standard simulators at the top of the market in mediumproject in 2009 with the commissioning and features fully-immersive, high calibre weapons for land vehicles of a $19 million integrated tactical fide nition interactive video scenarios to and helicopters as it delivered and training centre for the Singapore police enhance students judgemental skills, successfully tested a 35mm ammunition coast guard.
This was followed by a reaction times and response techniques.
handling system for a next generation contract, worth $7 million, with the Meggitt Defense Systems onsider this: no cooling, no combat.
The exponential Standalone cooling for the heat Cgrowth in military electronics and the heat they generate are the problem.
Reagan-era aircraft and of battle ground vehicles are being upgraded with the latest avionics and advanced braking systems and powerful devices for command, control and communications on the networkcentric battle eld.
All this emits heat in spaces that werent designed for them.
Unmanned vehicles, of course, depend on electronics for all functions, requiring integrated thermal management solutions today that can support the electronics of tomorrow.
At half the size and half the price of competing technologies, our vapour cycle systems with liquid ow-through enclosures dissipate the extra heat in any environment.
And where mission payloads extend beyond the con fines of land vehicles and aircraft, our complete pod systems are ready for our users chosen electronics.
Complete with vapour cycle and advanced surface coolers, integrated controllers and aircraft interfaces, antennae Above: Gerry Janicki, Senior Business Development Director, with a model and radar, we minimise integration risk for our customers of an integrally-cooled Meggitt pod for electronic countermeasures.
and ensure densely-packed electronics do not malfunction when needed most.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 21 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
