BUSINESS REVIEW Above: The Boeing 787 Dreamliner, a newgeneration, fuel-ef cient, composites-rich Aerospace Equipment aircraft, features Meggitts high performance airframe and engine seals, thermal management and uid control components and engine A group of leading electro-mechanical engineering condition monitoring systems.
businesses whose products are on virtually every western aircraft in service, ensuring stable aftermarket revenues over the long term.
Revenue Markets Growth strategy Civil aerospace: large, regional and Invest in component design and business jets and general aviation technology to meet next generation Military: aircraft, ground vehicles, platform requirements 745.3M ships, unmanned air vehicles Move up the value chain with Energy integrated solutions and sub-systems Underlying operating pro t Acquire complementary businesses that reinforce capability and expand Capabilities markets 220.8M Wheels, brakes and brake control Optimise product cost base through systems supply chain management Thermal management and uid Continually improve operations to Percentage of group revenue control deliver ef ciencies, developing critical Fire protection and control mass in programme management and Polymers and composites engineering resources 65% 16 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 16 16 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 of over $100 million for the fourth Airbus accredited our new polymer Operational highlights year running.
This included orders for for interior seals on new and existing Meggitts aerospace equipment division  and crashworthy aircraft programmes.
20% lighter represents 65% of total revenues, fuel tanks and ice guards for the V22 than existing materials, it helps fuel generating 62% from the aftermarket Osprey and the UH60M Black Hawk as ef ciency and signi cantly enhances and 38% from original equipment OE.
well as for composite interiors and ice Meggitts competitive position.
The decline in air traf c, parking of older protection equipment for the CH53K aircraft, cancellations and destocking, Previous contract wins progressed Super Stallion heavy lift helicopter.
affected its pro table civil aftermarket well.
The Phenom 300 business jet Deliveries of fuel bladders for the KC-135 and OE business.
However, with growth was certi ed in Brazil and the US.
air-to-air refuelling tanker were at in our military segment, signi cant cost Flight testing continued on the ARJ-21, record levels.
cutting and the stronger dollar, revenue Chinas new regional aircraft, which and pro t declined by only 2% and 4% Our controls businesses won contracts should enter service later this year.
for electro-mechanical fans on the Initial ight testing activity took place Stryker platform, additional content on Gulfstreams G250 and the G650 In civil aerospace, we continued on the V-22 aircraft and follow-on business jets which carry Meggitt our successful relationship with production contracts worth around wheels and brakes.
The G650s RollsBombardier, concluding agreements 15 million for engine components on Royce BR725 engine carries multiple to supply the all-electric braking system the Ariane 5 space launcher.
for Bombardiers CSeries family of the more electric vehicles of the The division had a dif cult year in other 110 to 149-seat aircraft and Meggitts future, we continued to develop highspecialist markets.
Meggitts compact longer-life NuCarb carbon brakes for performance, low power motors and printed circuit heat exchangers business the CRJ 1000 NextGen regional aircraft.
motor controllers for future ground and struggled to win new orders as new In the military segment, we won airborne military vehicles.
development projects were postponed the wheels, brakes, brake control Our safety systems business won due to the downturn and low gas price and landing gear control system for a contract for the integrated re forecasts.
However, it proved it could Tranche 3 of the Euro ghter Typhoon detection and extinguishing system make its products from tougher alloys, programme and the new braking system on Bombardiers Learjet 85 aircraft extending gas extraction business for the next generation Saab Gripen.
and orders from US and international opportunities when demand recovers.
Engineered Fabrics Corporation, customers worth over $17 million for an which we acquired with K&F, continues F-16 ghter jet canopy actuator upgrade.
to exceed expectations, booking orders Meggitt Aerospace Equipment have been climbing in and out of aircraft fuel tanks Material girl I for 32 years the products that Engineered Fabrics Corporation is most famous for.
However, it is our capability in heated and unheated composites that is responsible for our fastest growing lines helicopter interiors and ice protection for rotor blades.
In aerospace today, you have to increase product performance and keep weight down.
That is why we are investing in original engineering, complementing valuable experience in manufacturing our specialist products to customers designs.
The new approach has already delivered two ground-breaking contracts on the heavily-funded CH53K Super Stallion helicopter for complex composite engine inlets and noise-suppressing panels for its cabin interior.
Today, I am leading engineering within all Meggitts polymers and composites businesses, managing the talent and tools that reside across five transatlantic facilities.
That is how we will create a knowledge base in materials Above: Velma Brooks, Vice President, Engineering of Meggitts Polymers science that is the envy of the industry and how we will & Composites businesses - polymer fuel tanks, seals and sealants and composites for ice protection and aircraft interiors.
scale up our engineering function to win the programmes that will grow our business.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 17 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
