BUSINESS REVIEW Strategy implementation Focus Our approach Achievements 1.
Focused investment We invest in highly engineered Components and value-added 1.
Focused investment components and sub-systems, sub-systems We reinforced our position in designed with safety and reliability High technology content integrated sensing and ignition in mind, for aerospace, defence and packages, becoming one of the Aftermarket value energy markets.
We compete in all of primary suppliers supporting Growth by organic investment them with strong intellectual property, performance and reliability on Pratt and acquisition securing aftermarket revenue- & Whitneys PurePower geared generating positions in particular on turbofan engine.
We grow organically, expanding our markets and We moved our health management developing products internally and by expertise beyond aero-engine acquisition securing new technology, programmes to landing systems, fast-tracking product development and developing a new tyre pressure strengthening market positions.
monitoring system in a cross-group partnership between our sensing and aircraft braking systems businesses.
Achieve operational excellence We advanced our probe-based, We continue to integrate our businesses, Optimising our manufacturing low-maintenance digital fuel and accelerated through a transformation oil gauging system, enhancing its footprint initiative which started in 2009.
Strong architecture for use beyond general Improving our cost, quality central functions help them work aviation into large aircraft engines and and delivery performance together, standardising processes transport aircraft.
Strengthening central and sharing expertise, services and We launched iSFD, an integrated functions best practice.
Lean manufacturing, standby ight display designed to continuous improvement initiatives, Sharing services and meet the requirements of any modern strategic sourcing and low-cost best practice aircraft avionics architecture.
manufacturing facilities further optimise Meggitts ability to meet our customers Our pioneering electric brakes cost, quality and delivery targets.
and control system were selected for Bombardiers CSeries family of business jets after testing on a 3.
Satisfy our customers commercial demonstrator aircraft with no hydraulic back-up - a world Strengthen our partnerships We give customers what they want, first.
conducting our relationships with them with customers strategically, for the long term.
We Our heated and unheated composite Become easier to do combine the design and development capabilities delivered contracts business with capabilities and product portfolios for the complex composite engine Improve our delivery of complementary Meggitt business inlets and acoustic interiors of the units, aligning them strongly with US Navys CH53K Super Stallion heavy key customer roadmaps, making lift helicopter.
procurement for customers easier Meggitt completed the design and and adding value with more integrated development of a gearbox and sub-systems and larger packages.
brake assembly for next generation unmanned ground vehicles based on 4.
Maintain a culture of strong performance its modular, high-performance, lowpower smart control technology.
Delivering against targets We fide ne strong performance as We continued to work with a major delivery against targets, conditioned Leadership development North American aircraft manufacturer by rigorous financial discipline and Financial rigour on next generation ice protection sound ethical practice at every level High standards of compliance systems based on smart control.
We develop our leaders through professional We won the contract for the newdevelopment reviews and provide generation integrated re detection reward and incentive schemes for and extinguishing system on the top performance.
Learjet 85 aircraft, Bombardiers new all-composite business jet.
06 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
indd 06 06 09 03 2010 09 03 2010 14:16 14:16 The common denominator of all Meggitts products and technologies is smart engineering for extreme environments.
Our capabilities and strategies are described in the divisional reviews on pages 16 to 21.
Meggitts engine condition-monitoring the current economic environment 4.
Maintain a culture of strong capability continues to bene t from and supplement critical skills when performance sponsoring Cran eld Universitys required.
The transformation programmes Integrated Vehicle Health Management To support the groups new operating leadership structure focuses on IVHM research centre with Boeing, structure launched in 2010, we made performance.
Responsibility for BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce.
senior appointments in key functional business results and control of Research phases will address the areas operations, procurement, resources will lie with new divisional evidence for IVHMs economic viability: engineering and sales and marketing teams.
We removed a layer of the value of integration and the level and are rolling out shared services management from the operating at which it is advantageous: and how in IT, finance and HR.
sites, clarifying decision making maintenance should be nanced.
Across the group, we won important 3.
Satisfy our customers In 2009, we reduced costs by civil and military contracts on a wide We are restructuring our capabilities 34 million and are on target for a range of platforms that will deliver into five divisions focused on customer 50 million annual run-rate by the substantial aftermarket revenues and market demand.
These include end of 2010. see our divisional reviews on pages polymers and composites, thermal 16 to 21.
We tied incentives for the top 200 management and uid control, managers more closely to group aircraft braking systems and sensing.
Achieve operational excellence results to encourage team cohesion We will manage smaller capabilities within and between our divisions.
Group sourcing initiatives saved around within a single division, enabling them 15 million in 2009 by increasing to focus on their specialist markets We identi ed values critical to procurement in low-cost economies while bene ting from the wider performance in our changing and developing category strategies Meggitt groups investment in shared industry: operating as a global which enable us to negotiate signi cant services and common processes.
team, investing in continued longdiscounts on higher volumes.
term growth, delivering operational We centralised management of our excellence and acting with integrity.
We continued to simplify relationships key customer accounts to improve our The transformation programme is with suppliers, developing global responsiveness and develop longensuring that we will continue to focus purchasing conditions to ensure that term strategic partnerships.
doing business with Meggitt is the We are aligning our processes to same at every facility.
We have implemented an effective ensure our response to customers Export Compliance programme We leased a third building at our is consistent, timely and effective: across all of our businesses.
This is low-cost facility in Xiamen, China, strengthening programme based on best practice principles with to manufacture competitive polymer management to improve delivery, top-down management commitment products that would enable us to win quality and cost: and rolling out a demonstrated by the monitoring role selected contracts.
The plant is an new sales, inventory and operations of the Ethics and Trade Compliance established manufacturer of sensors planning process that will connect Committee of the Board.
market demand to our manufacturing capacity and supply chain.
We are committed to honesty and We completed our 200,000 square foot integrity in our business.
Our Ethics building in Quertaro, Mexico where We are investing in new sales of ces and Business Conduct Policy and Code we successfully produced wheel and in India and China, providing the local of Conduct, which are also overseen structural brake components.
support needed to win new business by the Ethics and Trade Compliance and develop long-term partnerships.
Our Singapore maintenance facility Committee, must be followed by expanded its support for Meggitt We appointed our first Group Director all employees and advisers.
All products across Asia Paci c, adding of Technology & Engineering.
employees have received Code of heat exchangers to its capability.
Dr Richard Greaves, formerly Conduct training and are required managing director of our sensing to view the Ethical Moments training We are outsourcing routine systems division, will advise videos which are released regularly.
Our exclusive contract on programme strategy at the Recently, we signed the Statement of with HCL, a major player in global earliest stage, support execution Adherence to the Global Principles of engineering and IT services and through design reviews, strengthen Business Ethics for the Aerospace and a trusted supplier to our aircraft development processes and align Defence Industry.
braking systems business, is expected R&D activity with customers most to produce savings of over $15 million important technology needs.
This valuable resource will help us to respond to MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 07 10-1012 Meggitt Front Section.
