Directors report The Directors of Melrose PLC present their report and the The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended in this report a fair review of the development and performance of 31 December 2009. the Group during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Principal activities and business review facing the Group.
The information that fulfils these requirements Melrose PLCs stated strategy is to acquire companies and can be found within the Chief Executives review, Business reviews, businesses whose operational performance the Directors believe Finance Directors review and in this Directors report.
The Finance can be improved to create shareholder value.
The executive Directors review also discusses the key performance indicators Directors have extensive experience of identifying and evaluating that management use.
acquisition opportunities, quoted and unquoted, both in the UK and overseas: as well as recognising the appropriate time in the The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or business cycle for disposal, in order to provide funding for future net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 3 to the acquisitions and return funds to investors as appropriate.
Melrose PLC UK Company accounts.
The Company has already achieved results for shareholders Financial results and dividend under this strategy, with the successful acquisitions and restructures The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to members of the McKechnie and Dynacast Groups May 2005 and FKI plc was 79.5 million 2008: loss of 48.3 million.
In addition there were July 2008.
Two of the McKechnie divisions, McKechnie Aerospace minority interest losses of 0.2 million 2008: profit of 0.5 million.
and PSM Fasteners, were separately disposed of two years after The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a second their acquisition, in May 2007.
The Company used the combined interim dividend of 4.8p on 1 April 2010 to Ordinary shareholders on proceeds from the two disposals of 458 million Aerospace: the register at the close of business on 19 March 2010.
There will be 428 million: PSM Fasteners: 30 million to return 220 million no final dividend.
to shareholders and repay 173 million of the Companys debt.
It is the intention of the Board to maintain a progressive dividend Following the sale of 100% of the equity of McKechnie Vehicle policy where appropriate going forward.
Components for US $1 on 26 November 2008, $2.5 million of Directors appointment and powers cash was loaned to the business, of which US $2.0 million was The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, together repaid during the year, as full and final settlement, in exchange with their biographical details, are given on pages 26 and 27.
were no changes to the Board during the year.
The acquisition of FKI plc, for a total consideration of 970.4 million, The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the increased the size of the Melrose Group by approximately six Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
There has been significant ongoing restructuring since of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must acquisition, including the disposal of several non-core businesses.
be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the On 22 June 2009 the Company sold its North American operations Board.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and resubmit of the Logistex division for US $40 million and on 28 August 2009 themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting the European operations of the Logistex division were also sold for AGM following their appointment.
Furthermore, at each AGM 30 million.
Rhombus and Welland Forge, two smaller businesses, one-third of the Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and were also disposed of during the first six months of 2009. must therefore submit themselves for re-election.
Actions were taken during the year to mitigate the impact of The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the economic conditions on the Groups profitability.
Cost bases Company and may exercise all the power of the Company, subject across all businesses were reviewed and subsequent initiatives to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by implemented to deliver substantial reductions in operating costs.
special resolution and to the Companys Articles.
Powers relating In addition, FKIs senior management team was reviewed and to the issuing of shares and powers to purchase the Companys changes to key positions have been made.
own shares are also included in the current Articles and such Now that the key restructuring projects are largely complete and authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders at the non-core businesses disposed of, the Directors efforts are focused AGM each year.
on identifying the next acquisition opportunity.
Pursuant to section 693 and 701 of the Companies Act 2006 and The Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, together with the a special resolution passed at the AGM in 2009, the Company is Chief Executives review on pages 8 and 9, Business reviews on authorised to purchase its own shares, limited to an aggregate pages 10 to 18 and Finance Directors review on pages 19 to 25 maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares.
The Company describe the principal activities, operations, financial performance, has not purchased any Ordinary Shares pursuant to this authority.
financial position and likely future prospects of the Group.
The The resolutions being proposed at the AGM include a resolution to results of the Group are set out in detail in the financial statements renew this authority.
on pages 47 to 51 and in the accompanying notes.
Directors interests and remuneration Information on Directors beneficial interests, including those of connected persons within the meaning of section 252 of the Companies Act 2006, in the shares of the Company is shown in the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 43.
28 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information No Director had a material interest at any time during the year Consistent with the 2007 Incentive Shares, the 2009 Incentive in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company Shares do not confer a right to be paid a dividend or the right to or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
On winding up, the holders are entitled to participate in the Companys assets equal to an amount to Directors indemnities which they would have been entitled if their 2009 Incentive Shares The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company in had crystallised as at the date of winding up.
Further details of the respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
This indemnity 2009 Incentive Shares can be found in the Remuneration report is provided under the Articles and satisfies the indemnity provisions on pages 40 to 43. of the Companies Act 2006.
At a meeting of the Remuneration Committee on 9 December The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those 2008, 2007 Incentive Shares totalling 1,250 were awarded by liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
Neither the Remuneration Committee, but the Incentive Shares were the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that not allocated to individual employees.
These Incentive Shares a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
were allocated to three senior managers on 14 May 2009, as Directors responsibilities 2009 Incentive Shares.
On 27 August 2009, the Remuneration The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Group Committee approved the allocation of a further 1,250 of the 2009 consolidated financial statements and the Melrose PLC UK Incentive Shares to the same three senior managers.
Company accounts is set out on page 44.
Further rights and obligations attaching to shares Share capital The following summary is based on the Companys current Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and rights Articles, as adopted at the AGM on 7 May 2008 and amended attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 29 and at the General Meeting on 14 May 2009.
Shareholders should 30 in compliance with the requirements of section 992 of the refer to the explanatory notes attached to the Notice of AGM, Companies Act 2006. on page 102, for a summary of the changes proposed to be made at this years AGM.
Changes to the share capital of the Company in issue during the year are detailed below: Voting Only Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In a general 2007 2009 meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the current Ordinary Incentive Incentive Shares Shares Shares Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which there 1 January 2009 497,586,779 50,000 Repurchased from 2007 are currently none : Incentive Shareholders 50,000 on a show of hands, every member present in person or by Issued to 2009 proxy shall have one vote: and Incentive Shareholders 50,000 on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy 31 December 2009 497,586,779 50,000 shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or The Ordinary Shares and 2009 Incentive Shares represent class meeting in respect of any shares held by him, if any call or 95.2% and 4.8% respectively of the total nominal value of all other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains shares in issue.
Currently all issued shares are fully paid.
The Melrose PLC Ordinary Shares Employee Benefit Trustee holds 25,279 Ordinary Shares at a The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue on 1 January and nominal value of 0.2p per share, resulting from the crystallisation 31 December 2009, at a nominal value of 0.2p, was 497,586,779. of the Original Incentive Scheme in August 2007.
The FKI plc The Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Employee Benefit Trust holds a further 158,114 Ordinary Shares at a nominal value of 0.2p per share, arising from the Melrose Incentive Shares acquisition of FKI plc.
The Remuneration Committee may direct On 14 August 2007, a share incentive scheme was approved how the voting rights of those shares are exercised.
the 2007 Incentive Scheme which was due to expire on 31 May 2012.
On 14 May 2009, pursuant to a shareholder Deadlines for voting rights resolution passed at a General Meeting on that date, the 2007 Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect Incentive Shares of 1 each were repurchased at their nominal of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on value and each holder of 2007 Incentive Shares subscribed for 13 May 2010 are set out in the Notice of AGM on pages 99 to 102. the same number of 2009 Incentive Shares, at the same nominal Dividends and distributions value.
The rights attaching to the 2009 Incentive Shares are Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company identical to those attaching to the 2007 Incentive Shares, with may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the the exception that the Company may pay a dividend on the 2009 members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended Incentive Shares as an alternative to converting them into Ordinary by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends and also any Shares and the holders may not request early conversion in 2010 fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, and or 2011.
The 2009 Incentive Shares were issued to Directors, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall senior management and Ogier Employee Benefit Trustee Limited, be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up as trustee of the Melrose Employee Benefit Trust.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 29 Directors report continued The Board may deduct from a dividend or other amounts payable Financial risks affecting the Group include liquidity risk, finance to a person in respect of their shares, amounts due from him cost risk, exchange rate risk and commodity cost risk.
The to the Company on account of a call or otherwise in relation to financial risk management objectives and policies in relation such shares.
to the use of financial instruments are described in the Finance Directors review on pages 19 to 25.
The procedures in place Liquidation for internal control and risk management are explained in the Under the current Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, Corporate Governance report on pages 36 to 39.
This Directors the liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law: report describes the Groups management of health and safety, divide amongst the members in kind the whole or any part environmental and intellectual property risks.
Additionally, any of the assets of the Company: or key commercial and economic risks are covered in the Business vest the whole or any part of the assets in trust for the benefit reviews on pages 10 to 18. of members as the liquidator shall determine.
Significant agreements and change of control Transfer of shares With the exception of the Groups banking facilities and the 2009 Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of Incentive Share Scheme, there are no other agreements that take his shares in any form which the Board may approve, and the effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company transfer shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
following a takeover bid, that are considered to be significant in Subject to the Articles and the requirements of any relevant terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a investment exchange, the Board may, in its absolute discretion, whole on 10 March 2010. refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not a fully paid Upon the acquisition of FKI plc, the Group arranged a syndicated share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Board may also 750 million facility, comprising a term loan and revolving credit decline to register a transfer unless the transfer is: i in respect facility maturing in April 2013.
In the event of a change of control of only one class of shares: ii in favour of not more than four joint of the Company following a takeover bid, the Company and transferees or renouncees: iii duly stamped if required : and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into negotiations iv delivered for registration to the registered office, or such other to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with the facility.
place as the Board may decide, accompanied by the certificate There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the facility available for more than 30 days beyond any change of Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor.
Failure to reach agreement with parties on revised terms Substantial shareholdings could require an acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
As at 10 March 2010 the Company has been advised of the following In the event of a takeover of the Company, the 2009 Incentive substantial interests in the Ordinary Share capital of the Company: Shares convert into Ordinary Shares or an entitlement to a dividend Shareholder Direct Holding Indirect Holding % paid in cash, the conversion being based upon the offer price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the date of the BlackRock Investment Management 49,381,108 9.92 change of control of the Company.
If part or the entire offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine the value Standard Life Investments 27,076,114 16,457,571 8.75 Ameriprise Financial 38,609,973 7.76 of the non-cash element, having been advised by an investment bank of repute that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
Artemis Investment Management 36,392,468 7.31 Product and employers liability claims Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 15,126,892 15,392,892 6.13 Ongoing risks in relation to potential future liabilities arising from Lloyds Banking Group plc 2,719,814 26,277,830 5.83 product, disease including asbestos, employers liability and workers compensation claims have been assessed using external Corporate Governance actuarial projections for material exposures and historic claims The Corporate Governance report is included as a separate report experience analysis for less significant exposures.
Actuarial on pages 36 to 39. projections and claims history experience are analysed by management and key points are discussed with the Board.
Risks and uncertainties Provisions are recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet where The nature of the Groups portfolio of businesses, which operate appropriate.
across a wide range of specialised engineering markets, diversifies the Groups risks across a range of customers, suppliers, labour A number of businesses have ISO 9001 and ISO 16949 certifications markets and economic conditions.
The geographical spread of the for their quality management systems, which also helps to ensure businesses also protects against the risk of adverse changes to their products and processes are of a recognised quality, reducing local economic conditions in any one location.
the risk of product claims.
30 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Key customers Various key performance indicators KPIs, including A review of key customers has been conducted across the Group.
absenteeism, lateness and employee turnover are monitored The loss of any one key customer would not have a material effect on a regular basis by the businesses.
Any concerns or adverse on the Groups results, however the loss of a key customer could trends are responded to in a timely manner.
be material to an individual business.
Training is actively encouraged, with extensive training available Payments to suppliers to all staff to ensure a high standard of skill is maintained across Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there the Group.
Cross-training programmes are also in place at is no standard protocol for the Group in respect of payments to a number of units.
The importance of training extends beyond on suppliers.
Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the the job training and focuses on enhancing personal development.
terms and conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
These For example the Truth business subsidises further university arrangements are adhered to, provided that suppliers meet their education and master degree programmes and a number of contractual commitments.
The Company, as a holding company, businesses offer external after hours training courses on subject did not have any material amounts owing to trade creditors at matters unrelated to current job requirements.
Apprenticeship 31 December 2009. programmes are in place at the majority of sites, assisting with succession planning where there is an ageing workforce.
Intellectual property Innovative thinking is encouraged across the Group and a number The Company values intellectual property IP and where of the Dynacast business units have established Continuous appropriate seeks protection and enforcement of its rights over IP.
Improvement Committees, which recognise and reward Due to the varying types of IP owned or licensed across the Group, employees for ideas which are realised and implemented each business is responsible for the protection and enforcement of to improve operations.
its IP rights and this is managed on a decentralised basis through the use of external advisors and the support of the Company.
A range of social events are held across the businesses throughout The Group conducts internal IP audits periodically.
the year in recognition of employees contributions and a number of broad-ranging wellbeing programmes are also in place.
Employment policies The Group is managed on a decentralised basis and each A significant number of employees are members of unions and business is responsible for the adoption of employment policies some businesses operate works councils, both of which are used and practices applicable to the size and nature of that business.
for consultation and dissemination of information as appropriate.
This is appropriate due to the diversified nature of the Groups The Directors have monthly meetings with divisional senior businesses and allows the businesses to meet their own local management and visit the sites on an ad-hoc basis to communicate regulatory requirements, respond to changes in the environment with the wider Group.
Financial results for the half year and full in which they operate and to retain identity while benefiting from year are discussed with the Groups senior management team being part of a larger group.
and Group developments are communicated to the businesses The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment as appropriate.
Employee involvement in and commitment to of all its employees in accordance with legislation applicable to the Groups profitability is encouraged through appropriate the territories within which it operates.
Having regard to their bonus schemes.
skills and abilities, the Group gives full and fair consideration Pensions to applications for employment received from disabled persons.
Companies within the Group operate various pension schemes Further, and so far as particular disabilities permit, the Group around the world.
The following defined benefit schemes are will give employees disabled during their period of employment material to the Group: continued employment in the same job or, if this is not practicable, a suitable alternative job.
Equal opportunities for appropriate As at 31 December 2009 training, career development and promotion are available to all Assets Liabilities Number of Name of scheme Status m m members employees regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, FKI UK Closed to new members 508.7 618.8 10,953 race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
Pension in October 2001: open Employee involvement, consultation and development Scheme for future accrual on a final The Directors attach great importance to good labour relations, salary basis employee involvement and development.
The nature of the FKI US Closed to new members 174.4 191.4 8,532 Groups activities places the responsibility for employment Pension Plan in April 2003 and for future practices with local management, in a manner appropriate accrual in January 2009 to each business.
McKechnie UK Closed to new members 128.1 140.2 3,362 A culture of clear communication and employee consultation Pension Plan in May 2003 and for future is inherent in all businesses.
Employee briefing sessions are accrual in June 2005 held on a regular basis at each unit to communicate strategy, key changes, financial results, personnel achievements and other important issues affecting operations.
Regular appraisals, notice boards, intranet sites and newsletters are also used to communicate with employees.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 31 Directors report continued The FKI UK Pension Scheme FKI UK Scheme is a UK defined A variety of KPIs are measured by the various health and safety benefit pension scheme with FKI plc as its principal employer.
committees across the Group, with all businesses monitoring The primary liability for funding rests with the participating the number of incidents and lost time injuries at a minimum, employers, who currently pay 18.0 million annually into the some expanding their KPIs to determine frequency and severity FKI UK Scheme.
This was expected to remove the funding of incidents.
The Company is in the process of reviewing the deficit by 31 December 2015, when the contribution levels were data already collected across the Group to assess appropriate last formally assessed as at 31 December 2005.
The Company standardised measures for the Group as a whole.
and Trustees have reviewed the funding of the FKI UK Scheme Extensive work has been undertaken by the businesses to ensure as part of the actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2008 and high levels of health and safety standards are maintained across discussions to finalise contributions are ongoing between the the Group.
The businesses strive for continuous improvement and Company and the Trustees.
numerous projects have taken place throughout the year to further The FKI US Pension Plan FKI US Plan is a defined benefit enhance the quality of the working environment for employees, pension scheme covering several of FKIs US business units.
such that the majority of KPIs have improved when compared to The primary liability for funding the FKI US Plan rests with the 2008.
Initiatives include implementation of stretching programmes participating employers.
The Company and Trustees have at Truth and Acco which have seen notable reductions in the reviewed the funding requirements of the FKI US Plan, based frequency of back and other strain injuries: health and safety on the 1 January 2009 actuarial valuation and no pension assessments at Bridon which identify training needs and ensure contributions are required, as it is expected that the deficit will employees keep up to date with latest procedures: improved be eliminated over time via excess asset returns.
Unlike the use of notice boards to communicate incidents and promote UK pension plans, deferred member liabilities do not increase awareness of specific hazards and risks: increased use of by inflation each year.
automatic retractable cables rather than manually wound cables to reduce trips and falls: and the installation of more automated The McKechnie UK Pension Plan McKechnie UK Plan is a UK lifting machines at a number of sites to reduce back-related defined benefit pension scheme with McKechnie Limited as its injuries.
Businesses have further initiatives planned for 2010, principal employer.
The primary liability for funding rests with the including improved analysis across many units of situations participating employers, which currently contribute 6.1 million which could have resulted in an accident near misses and annually into the McKechnie UK Plan and have agreed to meet the the introduction of wellbeing programmes by some units.
reasonable administration expenses and the Pension Protection Fund Levy up to 30 April 2010.
The Company has guaranteed the Premises are toured on a monthly basis by the respective health funding of the McKechnie UK Plan on an ongoing basis.
The and safety committees to ensure compliance with policies and to Company and Trustees reviewed the funding of the McKechnie identify any potential hazards for which counter measures can be UK Plan as part of the actuarial valuation as at 31 December 2008 implemented.
Recommendations are followed up as part of the and discussions to finalise contributions are ongoing between the agenda at the next committee meeting.
Additionally, operations Company and the Trustees.
are audited by both the safety committees and external auditors at least annually and reports of performance and recommended Health and safety improvements are prepared.
The safety committee is responsible The Directors seek to minimise health and safety risks to the for ensuring recommendations are implemented and most Groups employees by promoting effective management of the businesses use the audit reports as a base for their annual health Groups activities.
Policies are set by each business in accordance with local health In order to ensure the policies in place are effective in promoting and safety legislation and most units strive to achieve best good health and safety, all divisions are required to report to the practice.
The Turbogenerators business in the Czech Republic Board on health and safety matters on a monthly basis and to has ISO 18001 certification for Occupational Health and Safety notify the Board of any reportable incidents.
Health and safety and a number of operations are currently in the process of is also covered at every meeting of the Board.
performing gap analysis of current processes to determine the changes required to obtain this certification.
Health and safety is a key focus for divisional management and there are active programmes in place to provide substance to the written policies.
Detailed health and safety plans are set by businesses each year to determine annual targets and initiatives.
Health and safety committees are established at all businesses, which consist of both management and manufacturing personnel, who meet on a monthly basis.
The committees are responsible for reviewing reported incidents, monitoring incident trends and ensuring corrective measures are implemented when accidents occur or safety hazards are noted.
All incidents, whether or not they are deemed reportable under local legislation, are given due attention by the committee and divisional management require detailed reporting of all incidents and prompt reaction to issues.
32 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The environment has been proactive during 2009 in preparing for the schemes The Group continues to recognise the importance of its implementation, appointing external consultants as the Groups environmental responsibilities and is committed to ensuring that CRC advisors.
A CRC training workshop was held in September its operations have minimum adverse effect upon the environment 2009 for all UK businesses units, to communicate the schemes and that employees are aware of their role in safeguarding the requirements and the importance of CRC to the Group.
Preparation future of the environment.
for the registration process is well advanced and the Group is ready for registration which commences in April 2010. Business units seek to actively improve their processes and local policies are designed to reduce any damage that might Environmental liabilities be caused by the Groups activities, with many units implementing The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose obligations policies in line with best practice.
In seeking best practice to remediate contaminated sites both currently and previously standards, a number of business units have achieved the owned by the Group.
All environmental risks are closely managed high standards required to obtain ISO 14001 Environmental by external environmental specialists in conjunction with Management Systems certification and two further units are management and remediation is undertaken as appropriate.
currently undergoing gap analysis to ensure certification in 2010.
Environmental liabilities are required to be notified to the Company Policies and procedures at Dynacast Singapore and Malaysia Secretary and the Board are updated on environmental matters at also meet the high standards required to be Green Partners each Board meeting.
Costs incurred in meeting these obligations for Sony, which are seen to be stricter than those applied by are monitored and provisions are reviewed by the Board and ISO 14001 and Truth was awarded the first Annual Green Award recognised as appropriate.
from Window and Door magazine.
In addition, the UK subsidiaries Research and development comply with the UK Packaging Waste Regulations and REACH Using both internal expertise and external consultants, the Group Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction continually invests in research and development for the design of of Chemicals requirements as appropriate.
new products, processes and technology.
New products were Businesses understand the importance of monitoring the impact launched across the Group this year and continued investment in of their operations on the environment and measure a range new technology realised significant cost savings from streamlining of KPIs including energy consumption, carbon dioxide CO 2 production.
Due to the nature of the research and development emissions, water consumption, waste disposal, recycling and that occurred in 2009, the associated costs were expensed during volatile organic compound emissions.
KPIs are used to plan the year rather than being capitalised, in line with the Groups areas for improvement each year.
Consistent with the ethos of accounting policies on page 55.
The Group will continue to invest continuous improvement across many facets of the Group, the in research and development that has a suitable return.
businesses are pleased to have implemented further initiatives Social responsibility during the year to reduce energy and water consumption.
Capital The Group recognises the importance of social, environmental expenditure was invested in new energy efficient machinery and and ethical matters and the Directors endeavour to take into lighting, automated lighting systems, installation of water flow account the interests of all stakeholders, including investors, meters and automatic close valves and a number of businesses employees, customers, suppliers and business partners when moved to using bore water rather than town water for some managing the businesses within the Group.
Dynacast went a step further and its new factory in Singapore was built with a transparent roof, in order to significantly The Group regards employee training and advancement as an reduce the reliance on artificial lighting.
The company is expected essential element of industrial relations.
Disputes and days lost to replicate this design for any new plants built in the Asia Pacific through strike action are negligible.
Many units have a social and region.
ethical policy, with a senior manager holding responsibility for communicating and implementing it.
Such policies apply and Looking forward to 2010, Turbogenerators and Acco are extend local laws and standards which prohibit discrimination moving to replace solvent-based paints with water-based and exploitation.
paints, as already used by most other units.
Bridon is assessing its current cleaning processes to reduce the levels of hydrochloric The majority of the businesses provided community support acid used and some of the Dynacast businesses are replacing during the year with efforts ranging from charitable donations to many of their traditional cleaning processes to dry cleaning methods voluntary assistance and fund raising.
Support is given to local such as shot blasting, in order to reduce the use of chemicals schools by offering traineeships and work experience to students.
The Group will continue its focus on recycling, use of The Company will continue to invest in its businesses during its renewable energy and safe removal of hazardous waste across ownership, enhancing their reputation within the markets and all operations.
communities in which they operate.
The introduction of the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC, Charitable and political donations a new mandatory climate change and energy saving scheme The Group paid 8,757 2008: 8,750 to UK charities during the introduced in the UK, will also impact the Groups UK operations year, principally to local charities serving the communities in which from 2010.
CRC is part of the UKs strategy for improving energy the Group operates.
There were no political donations made efficiency and reducing CO emissions, as set out in the Climate 2 during the year 2008: nil.
Change Act 2008, and requires UK companies to purchase carbon allowances based on their energy usage.
The Company Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 33 Directors report continued Auditors Annual General Meeting Under the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Enterprise Act 2004, auditors have the right to access all Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00am information necessary for the performance of their duties as on 13 May 2010. auditor and the duties of Directors in this regard are clarified.
Resolutions dealing with the following special business will be So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit proposed at the AGM: information of which the auditors are unaware and the Directors Resolution 7 will seek shareholder approval to renew the Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken as authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit any securities into shares pursuant to section 551 of the Companies information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Act 2006 the section 551 authority.
The authority contained aware of that information.
in paragraph A of the resolution will be limited to an aggregate This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance nominal amount of 331,724, representing approximately one-third with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 10 March 2010.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, auditors.
Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed at the AGM of the paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority Company to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
into shares in connection with a rights issue up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 663,449, representing approximately Going concern two-thirds of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at The Groups business activities, together with the factors 10 March 2010, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares likely to affect its future development, performance and position issued under paragraph A of this resolution.
are set out in the Business reviews on pages 10 to 18.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and The Company does not hold any treasury shares.
borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors Resolution 8 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the review on pages 19 to 25.
In addition, notes 19 and 24 to the Board to allot equity securities of the Company or sell any consolidated financial statements include the Groups policies shares which the Company may elect to hold in treasury for and processes for managing its capital, exposures to liquidity cash pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 risk and financial risk management objectives, as well as details the section 570 authority without first offering them to existing of its financial instruments and hedging.
Credit risk exposure shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
It is is discussed in note 16 and note 24 to the consolidated limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive financial statements.
offers, subject to any arrangements that the Directors consider The Group prepares regular business forecasts and monitors appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas requirements, projected facility headroom and compliance with its banking and otherwise up to a maximum nominal value of 49,758, covenants, which are reviewed by the Board.
Forecasts are then representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary adjusted for sensitivities which address the principal risks to which Share capital as at 10 March 2010, which is in accordance with the Group is exposed, such as fluctuations in exchange rates the relevant guidelines for the Company.
and best estimates of the possible impact of the macroeconomic If approved, the section 551 authority and the section 570 environment on the Groups underlying trading results.
authority will expire at the conclusion of next years AGM or, Consideration is then given to the potential actions available if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2011.
The Directors to management to mitigate the impact of one or more of have no present intention of exercising the section 551 authority the sensitivities.
Taking all this into consideration, the Group should be able to Resolution 9 will seek to renew the authority conferred on the operate within the level of its current facility and remain covenant Company to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 compliant for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least and 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority is limited to twelve months from the date of approval of the Annual Report.
an aggregate maximum number of 49,758,677 Ordinary Shares, After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Share capital as at 10 March 2010.
This power will expire at the resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable conclusion of next years AGM or, if earlier, at the close of business future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern on 30 June 2011.
The maximum price which may be paid for an basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial statements.
Ordinary Share will be an amount which is not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
34 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Resolution 10 will seek to adopt new Articles of Association Recommendations the New Articles in order to update the Companys current The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed Articles, primarily to take account of the coming into force of at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company and its the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors unanimously Shareholders Rights Regulations, the implementation of the recommend that members vote in favour of all of the resolutions last parts of the Companies Act 2006 and amendments to the proposed, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. holdings.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are Disclosures in the Directors report summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of AGM on The Corporate Governance report and Business reviews and page 102.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or Finance Directors review form part of the Directors report.
clarifying nature, which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations or the Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, or which conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, have not been noted in the explanatory notes.
A copy of the New Articles showing all the changes to the current Articles is available for inspection, as noted on page 101 of this document.
Garry Barnes Secretary Resolution 11 will seek shareholder approval to allow the 10 March 2010 Company to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear days notice.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations have increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a minimum period of 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
