Steve Ingham Stephen Puckett chief Executive group Finance Director grouP strategy The groups strategy is to expand the business with Our team-based structure and profit-share business model is the objective of being the leading specialist recruitment scalable.
The small team size also means that we can rapidly consultancy in our chosen markets.
As recruitment activity increase our headcount to achieve growth.
Equally, when is dependent upon economic cycles, our strategy to counter market conditions tighten, these teams can rapidly reduce in the impact of economic downturns is to diversify our size largely through natural attrition.
consequently, our cost business by industry sectors, professional disciplines and by base will reduce in a slowdown, but having invested years geographic markets.
By being more diverse, the dependency in training and developing our highly capable management on individual businesses or markets is reduced, making the resources, our objective is to retain this expertise within the overall group more resilient.
This strategy is pursued entirely group.
By following this course of action, we typically gain through the organic growth of existing and new teams, market share during downturns and position our businesses for offices, disciplines and countries with a consistent team and leading rates of growth when economic conditions improve.
Pursuing this approach does mean that in a downturn our This growth is achieved by drawing upon the skills and profitability declines as, in addition to the lower productivity experiences of proven Michael Page management ensuring levels that come with a slowdown, we carry spare capacity.
we have the best, most experienced, home grown talent in Adopting this strategy of toughing out economic slowdowns each key role.
When we invest in a new business, we do so also drives our funding strategy and balance sheet position.
only with a long-term objective and in the knowledge that In slowdowns, the business continues to produce strong at some point there will be periods when economic activity cash flows, as working capital requirements reduce.
While it is difficult to predict accurately when these With uncertainty around the length and depth of economic slowdowns will occur and how severe they will be, it has been slowdowns, a strong balance sheet is essential to support our practice in the past and is our intention in the future to the businesses through these tougher periods and, when maintain our presence in our chosen markets, but with close conditions improve and the businesses start growing, to fund control over our cost base.
the increased working capital requirements.
