Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and Auditors Report for the year ended 31 December 2009.
PrinCiPal aCtiVity The Group is one of the worlds leading specialist recruitment consultancies.
The Groups trading results are set out in the financial statements on pages 53 to 86. Business reView The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business review in their report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found on pages 10 to 21 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
24 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl CorPoraTe GoverNaNCe In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, Sir Adrian Montague and charles-henri Dumon will retire by The company and the group are committed to high standards rotation at the Annual general Meeting and, being eligible, of corporate governance, details of which are provided in offer themselves for re-election.
the corporate governance report on pages 32 to 39 and remuneration report on pages 40 to 49.
Biographical details for all the current Directors are shown on pages 22 and 23. signiFiCant agreements The beneficial interests of Directors in office at 31 December There are certain agreements to which the company is party 2009 in the shares of the company at 31 December 2009 that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control and at 5 March 2010 are set out in the remuneration report of the company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as All of the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest follows: in the ordinary shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
a 50m revolving credit facility that terminates on a change The company has maintained throughout the year directors of control, with outstanding amounts becoming payable and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its with interest: and directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans provision contained in the companys Articles of Association.
may cause options and awards granted to employees These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
provisions as defined by Section 234 of the companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently direCtors and interests in force.
The following were Directors during the year and held office results and diVidends throughout the year other than as shown below.
The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 12.4m Sir Adrian Montague CBE chairman 2008: 97.3m.
Steve Ingham Chief Executive Stephen Box resigned 22 May 2009 A final dividend for 2008 of 5.12 pence per ordinary share Charles-Henri Dumon was paid on 8 June 2009.
An interim dividend for 2009 of Ruby McGregor-Smith 2.88 pence per ordinary share was paid on 9 October 2009.
Dr Tim Miller The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Stephen Puckett for the year ended 31 December 2009 of 5.12 pence per Hubert Reid ordinary share on 7 June 2010 to shareholders on the register on 7 May 2010 which, if approved at the Annual general non-Executive Directors Meeting, will result in a total dividend for the year of 8.0 pence Senior Independent Director per ordinary share 2008: 8.0 pence.
Stephen Box, the Senior Independent Director, retired on 22 May 2009 having served on the Board since flotation in CrediTor days March 2001.
The group would like to extend its appreciation The company acts as a holding company for the group.
and warmest thanks to Stephen for his contribution.
creditor days for the company were nil 2008: nil as Following Stephens retirement, hubert reid has been the company does not undertake any transactions with appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director.
The groups creditor days at the year end were 29 2008: 38 days.
AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 25 share CaPital CorPorate resPonsiBility Cr The authorised and issued share capital of the company are At Michael Page International, corporate responsibility cr shown in note 17 to the financial statements.
is not just an obligation, its a commitment to causes and practices we believe firmly in.
At the Annual general Meeting held on 22 May 2009, the company renewed its authority to make market purchases Our approach to all cr activities is to engage closely with of its own ordinary shares up to an increased maximum of our stakeholders and to understand their needs and issues.
14.99% of the issued share capital.
At the forthcoming AgM, We work hard to deliver real value to all our stakeholders it is proposed to reduce this maximum back down to 10%.
whether they are shareholders, clients, investors, staff or members of the wider community.
Ethical and responsible During the year, the employee benefit trust purchased practices and a commitment to minimise our impact on the approximately 1.0m shares, held to satisfy share scheme environment are key motivators behind our strategy.
The total nominal value of shares repurchased was 10k and represented 0.3% of the issued share capital.
diversity The shares were purchased for a consideration of 1.9m, During 2009, we undertook a comprehensive review of including expenses.
1.4m shares were also issued to satisfy our diversity strategy covering three key areas: monitoring share options exercised during the year.
our own staff and candidate population, creating a diverse and inclusive workforce ourselves, and assisting clients in suBstantial shareholdings fulfilling their own diversity agenda by introducing candidates As at 4 March 2010, the company had been notified in from the widest possible talent pool.
We have a Diversity accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Steering committee which is chaired by a dedicated head rules of the following voting rights by shareholders of the of Resourcing & Diversity and Regional Managing Directors company as shown below.
The committee meets quarterly to agree new strategies, developments and initiatives and works Number of towards engendering an increasingly diverse workforce both ordinary % of issued Holder shares share capital for us and our clients.
We share experience and best practice Capital International Limited 31,307,869 9.68% on a global forum to ensure we are in a position to take advantage of our many diverse cultures.
Sleep, Zakaria & Co 17,021,321 5.26% Standard Life Investments 16,084,626 4.97% Lloyds Banking Group 16,071,702 4.97% Fidelity 15,886,847 4.91% Legal & General 12,367,334 3.82% know it embrace it encourage it Our diversity proposition forms Our activities involve every We not only practice what part of our long-term global single person working within the we preach, but continually plans for growth.
It is an integral Michael Page world.
It is part of encourage our staff to offer ideas part of our desire to consistently our everyday life, in every office, on how we could operate more offer quality services to our every country and in everything responsibly or implement our stakeholders.
26 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl For each key group our diversity strategy is: our PeoPle Diversity: For ourselves employee engagement We offer a level playing field.
We check to make sure it stays Maximising Potential is the vision we have created to ensure that way.
each of our employees has the opportunity to succeed and be fulfilled to their own desired level.
Weve always encouraged Diversity: For our clients teamwork and camaraderie.
As such we are a very sociable We use the widest pipelines to seek your future talent.
company with regular team building days, quarterly events Building unique approaches to give you the diverse shortlist and high profile and exclusive trips for our high Flyers you need.
We network with the right people.
rewarding those who have performed exceptionally well.
Diversity: For our candidates hiring the best Show us your skills and you can trust us to do all we can to Sourcing and retaining the highest calibre employees create job opportunities for you.
from a wide range of backgrounds is key to our success.
Corporate memberships The service we provide to all our customers is only as good as the people who represent our brand.
Our strategy to grow To ensure our business is in the best possible position to organically by promoting from within, presents enormous work with and advise our clients and candidates on diversity, opportunities to employees who range from graduates to Michael Page is a member of the following organisations.
people changing careers often from the disciplines we Race for Opportunity an organisation committed to recruit for.
Its also extremely important to us to recognise that improving employment opportunities for ethnic minorities when we recruit, that we are hiring our managers, directors across the UK: and indeed Managing Directors of the future.
Opportunity Now a membership organisation for learning and development - our future employers who are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for women: Every member of staff is given the support and opportunity to grow and develop.
A dedicated in-house team of Employers Forum for Disability the worlds leading learning and development specialists with extensive employers organisation focused on disability as it affects industry experience provide a robust personal development business: and framework from induction and IT training through advanced Employers Forum on Age an independent network of skills, presentations and competency based advancement.
leading employers, who recognise the need to attract and Managers undertake a broad management development retain valuable employees, whatever their age.
and succession planning programme, involving such areas Our senior staff are actively involved with these bodies and as coaching and people management, often using 360 through work-streams and joint initiatives, ensure we are degree feedback to progress through director development constantly learning from their experience and indeed use our and beyond.
Quarterly appraisals underpin the individual own resources to share best practice and ideas.
ownership of our development programmes and our employers forum on disability AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 27 mentoring scheme provides employees with the opportunity Thats a significant time commitment we are making available to to draw upon the wealth of talent and experience available our employees and something else to feel passionate about.
Its an opportunity many take up.
Michael Page staff have 95% of our Directors started as trainees within the company visited retirement homes, wildlife projects, community centres and have been promoted internally, which is testament to our and homes of the elderly, offering voluntary help.
nearly all commitment to individual development and organic growth.
of them return with stories to tell, proud, enriched by the experience and firmly bonded to their team.
Since 2008, retaining the most talented people more than 400 days have been spent getting involved first retaining our best people is key to our long-term success hand with the community.
A strong commitment to internal promotion helping young people prepare for employment and employee empowerment, has continually helped us retain our very best people.
At the highest level, we want In schools too, we have people giving talks to young people, people who are immersed thoroughly in our company culture helping them prepare for employment with career guidance and understand the intricacies of our business.
It means that and cV advice.
today, 95% of our Directors have grown within the company Each year, we give work placements to under-graduates and been promoted internally.
through the city of london Business Traineeship programme.
keeping in touch The aim is to give individuals from londons inner-city boroughs a real taste of working in business, learning skills, Regular state of the nation broadcasts to our staff from taking on responsibility, and developing their confidence in our cEO the workplace.
Since 2008, we have welcomed a number of More our internal intranet site offers discounts on a people into our offices to experience the working environment.
wide range of brands Many of our staff have given up their time to mentor them on Monthly newsletters and global updates life and practices within the workplace.
Quarterly team building events Charity partnerships around the world High Flyers events premium international trips for high Around the world, Michael Page makes substantial donations performing consultants and managers to both global charities and local projects.
Charity and Community In Switzerland, Michael Page participated in the course fide lEscalade, in support of the red cross.
In Germany, we The group made charitable donations of 189,586 during introduced a candidate donation programme in aid of Aktion the year 2008: 153,366.
giving something back Michael Page in France has also been working with several Our in-house Moregiving scheme allows every Michael Page charities for a number of years: Sport Dans la Ville helps employee one day per year out of the office to help make a young people develop confidence and social skills: la difference in their community, the Environment or to a charity.
Fondation fide la 2me chance and cadraxion 78 provide our Core Values take Pride Be Passionate We have five values that we believe contribute to our To take pride in what we do, Its our passion to provide the success.
These attributes of who we are and what we very best service for our clients are not only the essence of stand for.
We are proud of our and candidates that drives us to our brand, but are rooted in brand, our colleagues and our triumph over our competition.
each and every employee of achievements.
28 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl employment opportunities for older people: and hanploi.
com Our staff also joined GOSHCC fundraisers on high profile champions the employment of people with disabilities.
prestigious events, whereby people from Michael Page donned gOShcc t-shirts and helped collect cash In the Americas, Michael Page Brazil has been involved in contributions from people attending royal Ascot, the a number of charity events, sponsoring a charity auction in British grand Prix and london christmas celebrations.
aid of Boys and girls hope Worldwide: sponsorship of the Projeto guri in So Paolo, which brings music and culture Numerous office-based activities such as dress-down to poor areas of the city: and providing ongoing support to days and tuck shops.
gotas fide Flor com Amor, an institution that promotes the seeing our efforts come to life education of children.
The money we raised for gOSchcc will go towards funding In Australia, Michael Page provided sponsorship to children an adolescent recreation and dining room in the neurosciences via the World Vision charity and held events in support of the ward of the new clinical Building.
Due for completion in 2012, Breast cancer Foundation, Juvenile Diabetes Foundation and the total cost of the room will be 120,000 and we expect ronald McDonald house childrens charity.
In the UK, we operate a give As You Earn scheme, matching any charitable donations made by an employee within that enVironment scheme.
cancer research UK was our charity for 2007 and taking responsibility for our environment we raised more than 110,000 on their behalf.
In 2008, our chosen charity was The British heart Foundation and we Michael Page is a typical office-based businesses.
As such, raised c 90,000, which provided 60 life-saving defibrillators our main environmental impacts come from the running of our across various UK locations.
Our chosen charity for 2009 was businesses around the world, generating carbon emissions great Ormond Street hospital childrens charity gOShcc though the consumption of gas and electricity, transport and, against a grey economic backdrop, we set an initial activities and commuting, as well as office-based waste such target of 50,000 for the first 12 months of our two-year as paper and toners.
As a company, we are acutely aware of our responsibility In 2009, we raised a remarkable 115,000 through sponsored and work hard to minimise our impact on the environment.
events and other fundraising activities across our network.
In a number of areas, we strive to make a difference and act The figure reached was way over our initial target, quite responsibly in terms of recycling, conservation and usage.
an achievement considering what a difficult year 2009 was Along with a number of policies on how to use our resources for everyone.
responsibly around the offices, we also have our own in-house here are some of the activities weve carried out as part of Moregreen scheme, which offers staff the opportunity to our fundraising drive: purchase green products at reduced prices.
100 Michael Page staff took part in the Three Peaks challenge in Yorkshire, walking 39.2km and climbing 1586m in under 12 hours.
never give up work as a team make it Fun We welcome a challenge: we Working as a team makes us We recognise that fun is a show strength of character and stronger, more efficient and key factor within our working resilience in our approach, we adding value to our business environment: were very see difficulty as an opportunity and brand.
sociable and enjoy celebrating to demonstrate ability.
AnnUAl rEPOrT 2009 29 reducing our carbon footprint Further details of our cr activities and impacts are shown in our main cr report, a copy of which can be downloaded Michael Page International does not cause significant pollution, from our website at: however we fully recognise our responsibilities.
The Board is committed to improving the way in which our activities affect http: investors.
co. uk corporate governance the environment by: supplier payment policy Minimising the extent of the environmental impacts of operations within the companys sphere of influence: It is the policy of the group to agree appropriate terms and conditions for transactions with suppliers by means Striving to minimise any emissions of effluents in our ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated properties, that may cause environmental damage: contracts and that payment should be made in accordance Conserving energy through minimising consumption and with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier maximising efficiency: has also complied with them.
Promoting efficient purchasing, which will both minimise waste and allow materials to be recycled where share CaPital, restriCtions on transFer oF appropriate: shares and other additional inFormation Employing sound waste management practices: To the extent not discussed in this Directors report, Putting in place procedures and supporting information information relating to the companys share capital structure, that enables compliance with the law, regulation and code restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the of practice relating to environmental issues: exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required Monitoring environmental performance and making by Section 992 of the companies Act 2006 is set out in the improvements where possible following sections of the Annual report: health & saFety Corporate Governance Statement Directors : We recognise that health and Safety is an integral part of our Remuneration Report annual bonus plan : workforce.
The day-to-day services we provide do not pose Remuneration Report Directors interests and share great risk to either our employees or our clients.
however ownership requirements : Michael Page endeavours to maintain a safe and active environment.
Notes to the Accounts Note 17: Called-up share capital : and Each office is responsible for its own fire risk assessment and emergency procedures and has an allocated Facilities and Shareholder Information and Advisers Memorandum and health and Safety representative.
The above is only a summary of the many cr activities in Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, which we are involved and the impact the group has on its and forms part of, this Directors report.
555 fluorescent tubes recycled Equivalent to 33,300 light bulbs 136,260 kg of paper recycled 40,880 kw of energy conserved 2,318 682 reduced cubic metres by landfill trees saved 30 MIchAEl PAgE InTErnATIOnAl special business auditors The following resolutions have been classed as special Deloitte llP are willing to continue in office and accordingly business at the forthcoming Annual general Meeting on resolutions to re-appoint them as auditors and authorising 21 May 2010: the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual general Meeting.
Resolution 8: To amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association: annual general meeting Resolution 10: To authorise Directors to allot shares: The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual general Meeting Resolution 11: To authorise the Company to purchase its to be held on 21 May 2010, together with explanatory notes, own shares: and appear in a separate notice of Meeting that has been Resolution 12: Length of notice to convene General posted to all shareholders and is available on our website at Meetings.
information to auditors By order of the Board Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit kelvin stagg information of which the companys auditors are unaware: company Secretary and 5 March 2010 2. the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the companies Act 2006.
