receive regular training and updates of changes in legal and The vast majority of those people who left the business during compliance requirements.
2009 were our least experienced people.
In line with our longterm strategy and despite the large headcount reductions, requirement to prepare a Business review we maintained our market presence across our network of offices and countries.
Furthermore, we invested by continuing The Directors, in preparing this Business review, have the roll-out of disciplines, opening offices in Bologna, complied with s417 of the companies Act 2006.
They Abu Dhabi and Monaco and launching Page Personnel in have also sought to comply with the guidance set out in germany, Australia and, at the start of 2010, in the USA.
the Accounting Standards Boards reporting Statement: We believe these actions mean that we have increased our Operating and Financial review.
market share and are well positioned for profitable growth This Business review has been prepared for the group as a as markets recover.
whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters This longer-term approach, however, meant that our which are significant to Michael Page International plc and its profits reduced at a faster rate than the reduction in gross subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
profit, as we retained our more experienced and therefore update on Vat reclaims more expensive people, maintained our office network and market presence, as well as continuing to invest.
In 2003 Michael Page submitted an initial claim to hMrc for The group experienced similar large reductions in profits overpaid VAT which was rejected.
Michael Page appealed during the downturns of the early 1990s and in 2002 03. and subsequently filed amended claims for 26.5m, net of Following these downturns, the group grew strongly as fees, covering the period from 1980 to 2004.
In March 2009, markets recovered and produced record levels of profit.
Michael Page filed amended claims for a further refund of It is our expectation that having maintained our business an additional 80m, net of fees, of overpaid VAT covering platform during this economic downturn, we will be able to the same period.
deliver strong growth in profits again when markets recover.
In June 2009 Michael Page received a payment from hMrc of We have an exceptional pool of ambitious and talented 26.5m, net of fees, as part settlement of these claims and in people in the group, particularly at the senior management July 2009 received 10.9m, net of fees, of statutory interest.
levels, who have experience of managing these businesses On 25 September 2009, Michael Page received a letter from through periods of economic slowdown and recession, hMrc which stated that, hMrc have reviewed the recent while preparing them for strong growth when economic payment and are now of the view that the claim in whole or conditions improve.
It has always been, and will continue to in part should not have been paid.
be, our intention to take decisions and make investments for the longer-term benefit of our stakeholders.
A number of discussions and meetings with hMrc have since taken place and in respect of the initial claim, subject to legal We are encouraged by the 10% sequential growth in contract, an agreement has now been reached in principle for group gross profits we recorded in the fourth quarter of Michael Page to retain 28.5 million net of fees of the 37.4 2009, with three of our four regions recording quarter on million it received.
however, given the background to the initial quarter improvement.
We are now seeing a recovery in receipt and the subsequent review and reversal of its decision several markets and geographies and whilst the strength by hMrc, the group has not recognised any amount in the of this recovery is uncertain, we believe that, with a strong Income Statement due to the remaining uncertainty pending balance sheet and spare capacity in the business, we are well formal contractual agreement.
positioned to improve significantly our performance in 2010.
In respect of the amended claims for a further refund of an We will next update the market on our first quarter trading in additional 80m, net of fees, of overpaid VAT there have been an announcement on 9 April 2010. no discussions or meetings with hMrc and Michael Page will continue to pursue the claim.
summary and outlook having made significant investments since the previous Steve Ingham Stephen Puckett downturn, organically diversifying our business, geographically and by discipline, this diversification has undoubtedly chief Executive group Finance Director benefited the groups performance as every economy around 5 March 2010 the world suffered as a result of the global financial crisis.
