The groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position and commentary on the groups financial results, its cash flows, liquidity requirements, principal risks and uncertainties and undrawn borrowing facilities are set out in this Business review.
In addition, note 21 to the financial statements includes the groups financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to liquidity risk and credit risk.
In the year to 31 December 2009, the group generated a profit of 12.4m, with cash generated from operating activities of 86.6m.
As at 31 December 2009, the group balance sheet was in a net asset position of 197.0m with net cash of 137.2m.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with going concern and liquidity risk: guidance for Directors of UK companies 2009, published by the Financial reporting council.
Foreign exChange The group operates in 28 countries around the world and carries out transactions that are recorded in seventeen local currencies.
The group reports its Income Statement and cash Flow Statement results in Pounds Sterling, using the average exchange rate for each month to translate the local currency amounts into Sterling.
The Balance Sheet is translated using the exchange rates at the Balance Sheet date.
As a service company, most of the groups transactions are within the territory in which the local business operates and consequently there are few cross-border transactions between group companies.
however, royalties are charged for the use of the groups trademarks and management fees are charged for group and regional functions that provide services to other group subsidiary companies.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in accordance with IFrS on the settlement of these transactions where the cash received, when converted into Sterling, differs from the amounts previously recorded in the Income Statement.
These exchange gains and losses are included within operating profit.
The table below shows the relative movements of the groups main trading currencies against Pounds Sterling during 2009, when compared to those prevalent during 2008.
In all cases, for profit and loss retranslation, Sterling has weakened against these main trading currencies.
Movement in the average exchange Movement in the year end exchange rate used for Income Statement rate used for Balance Sheet translation Currency translation between 2008 and 2009 between 2008 and 2009 Euro -11% 9% Swiss Franc -16% 9% Brazilian real -6% -16% US Dollar -16% 12% Australian Dollar -9% -13% hong Kong Dollar -17% 12% Singapore Dollar -13% 9% Japanese Yen -25% 15% treasury management and CurrenCy risk It is the Directors intention to continue to finance the activities and development of the group from retained earnings and to operate the groups business while maintaining a strong balance sheet position.
In a generally benign economic environment, this equates to maintaining the Groups net cash debt position within a relatively narrow band, with cash generated in excess of these requirements being used to buy back the groups shares.
In an economic downturn a more cautious funding position is adopted, with the group being managed in a net cash position.
