Board of Directors sir adrian montague CBe 62 Charles-henri dumon 51 Chairman Managing Director Continental Europe and The Americas Sir Adrian Montague is chairman of Anglian Water group limited and of cellMark AB, the international forest charles-henri Dumon joined Michael Page in 1985 and products marketing group based in gothenburg.
From was appointed a Director in 1987.
Since then he has had 1997 to 2001, he held senior posts concerned with the full responsibility for the groups operations in France and implementation of the governments policies for the has managed the groups entry into Southern Europe and involvement of the private sector in the delivery of public South America.
he was appointed Managing Director for all services, first as chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce Michael Pages European and South American businesses in and then as Deputy chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
January 2001. his responsibilities were increased to include he was Deputy chairman of network rail from 2001 to north America in January 2006.
2004, chairman of cross london rail links limited from ruby mcgregor-smith 47 2004 to 2005, chairman of British Energy from 2002 to Independent Non-Executive Director 2009 and chairman of Friends Provident plc from 2005 to 2009. he spent his early career as a solicitor with linklaters ruby Mcgregor-Smith qualified as a chartered Accountant & Paines before joining Kleinwort Benson in1994.
Sir Adrian with BDO Stoy hayward and was appointed to the Board of is also a non-Executive Director of london First, a Director Michael Page International plc on 23 May 2007.
She is chief of Skanska AB, the Swedish international construction Executive of MITIE group Plc, a position she has held since group, and a Trustee of The historic royal Palaces.
Previously to being appointed chief Executive, he was awarded a cBE in 2001 and a knighthood in 2006. she held the positions of group Finance Director and then he is also chairman of the nomination committee.
he is chief Operating Officer.
Prior to joining MITIE group Plc, also a member of the housing Finance group of the housing she held a range of senior roles within the support services and communities Agency and chairman of the Advisory sector, primarily at Serco group plc.
She is chairman of the Board of reform.
Audit committee and a member of the remuneration and nomination committees.
steve ingham 47 Chief Executive Steve Ingham joined Michael Page in 1987 as a consultant with Michael Page Marketing and Sales.
he was responsible for setting up the london marketing and sales businesses and was promoted to Operating Director in 1990. he was appointed Managing Director of Michael Page Marketing and Sales in 1994.
Subsequently he took additional responsibility for Michael Pages retail, Technology, human resources and Engineering businesses.
he was promoted to the Board as Executive Director of UK Operations in January 2001, and subsequently to Managing Director of UK Operations in May 2005. he was appointed chief Executive on 6 April 2006.
Steve is also a member of the great Ormond Street hospitals corporate Partnership Board.
22 M MI Ic ch hA AE El l P PA Ag gE E IIn nT TE Er rn nA AT TIO IOn nA Al l dr tim miller 52 exeCutiVe Board Independent Non-Executive Director In addition to the Executive Directors, the Executive Board Tim Miller was appointed a Director of Standard chartered comprises Alexis fide Bretteville regional Managing Director Bank in December 2004.
Tim is responsible for the corporate - The Americas, gary James regional Managing Director Real Estate, Corporate Secretariat, Legal, Compliance & - Asia Pacific and Andrew Wayland chief Information Assurance, Internal Audit and global research functions.
is also chairman of Standard chartered Korea and chairman alexis fide Bretteville 47 of the Banks Environment committee.
Outside the Bank, Regional Managing Director The Americas Tim is a Vice President, Organisation and resourcing, at the chartered Institute of Personnel and Development cIPD, Alexis fide Bretteville joined Michael Page in 1993 as a Chairman of the Governing Body, School of Oriental & African consultant in Paris, France.
In 1997 he was appointed Studies SOAS, and a Member of the School Advisory Managing Director of Michael Page Spain, launching Spain, Board, and a Special Professor of Strategy, at nottingham Portugal and later, Brazil.
In 2002 he moved to germany, University Business School, where, in 2007, he completed taking on responsibility for germany, Belgium and Sweden.
Tim was appointed In 2004 he moved to Belgium when his responsibilities also to the Board of Michael Page International plc on 15 August included holland and the launch of Poland in 2005.
In 2006 2005 and is chairman of the remuneration committee and he became regional Managing Director for the Americas, a member of the Audit and nomination committees.
based in new York, having responsibility for Michael Page in USA, canada, Brazil, Mexico and most recently Argentina.
stephen Puckett 48 gary James 48 Group Finance Director Regional Managing Director Asia Pacific Stephen Puckett qualified as a chartered Accountant with BDO Binder hamlyn.
he joined Wace group plc in 1988 as gary James joined Michael Page Finance in london in Director of corporate Finance, subsequently being promoted 1984. he was appointed Director of Michael Page Sales to group Finance Director in 1991. he was group Finance & Marketing in 1994, Managing Director of Michael Page Director of Stat Plus group plc in 2000, and appointed Marketing in 1997 and transferred to America in 2002 as group Finance Director of Michael Page International plc Managing Director of north America.
he moved to Australia in January 2001. he was a non-Executive Director of Shl and was appointed Managing Director of the Asia Pacific group Plc from 2004 to 2006. region in August 2006. andrew wayland 43 hubert reid 69 Chief Information Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Andrew Wayland was the UK IT Business Management Director of  where he worked for hubert reid is chairman of Enterprise Inns plc and of the over 10 years in the internal IT functions.
he brings extensive Midas Income and growth Trust Plc and Deputy chairman experience in establishing IT strategy and innovation of Majedie Investments Plc.
he was previously Managing to support the wider business strategy, and integrating Director and then chairman of the Boddington group plc, technology teams.
he was appointed chief Information and a non-Executive Director and then chairman of Ibstock Officer of Michael Page in December 2005.
Plc, Bryant group plc and the royal london group.
he was appointed a non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc on 25 February 2003. he is a member of the Audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
A Ann nnUA UAl r l rEPO EPOr rT T 2009 2009 23
