key PerFormanCe indiCators kPis Financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs used by the Board to monitor progress are listed in the table below.
The source of data and calculation methods year-on-year are on a consistent basis.
KPI 2009 2008 Definition, method of calculation and analysis gross margin 49.1% 56.8% gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
gross margin reduced from last year as a result of the mix of permanent and temporary placements.
Source: consolidated income statement in the financial statements.
conversion 5.7% 25.4% Operating profit as a percentage of gross profit showing the groups effectiveness at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal business operations and the level of investment for the future.
conversion declined compared to last year reflecting the impact of the economic slowdown on demand for the groups services, lower productivity and the lag in headcount reductions.
Productivity 124.0k 136.2k represents how productive fee earners are in the business and is calculated by gross profit dividing the gross profit for the year by the average number of fee earners and directors.
The higher the number, the higher their productivity.
Productivity is a per fee earner function of the rate of investment in new fee earners, the impact of pricing and the general conditions of the recruitment market.
The reduction in productivity this year is as a result of the general deterioration in market conditions.
Fee earner: 71:29 74:26 represents the balance between operational and non-operational staff.
support staff The ratio of fee earners to support staff at the end of 2009 has reduced from ratio the level at the end of 2008.
This ratio improves when the group grows and headcount increases, but tends to decline when group headcount reduces as the infrastructure staff to support a higher number of teams, offices and countries cannot be flexed as quickly as fee generating staff.
Debtor days 45 56 represents the length of time taken for the group to receive payments from its debtors.
calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
The decrease compared to last year relates to the shift towards temporary recruitment activity from permanent in a downturn.
Temporary recruitment activity tends to have lower debtor days.
The movements in KPIs are in line with expectations set out in the discussions in the business review.
going ConCern The Board have undertaken a recent and thorough review of the groups budget, forecasts and associated risks and sensitivities.
Despite the significant uncertainty in the economy and its inherent risk and impact on the business, the Board has concluded, given the level of cash in the business, the level of borrowing facilities available, the geographical and discipline diversification, limited concentration risk, as well as the ability to manage the cost base, that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these accounts.
