Micro Focus Annual Report and 32 International plc Accounts 2009 Management and governance Board of directors 01.
David Maloney, 53 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Kevin is non-executive Chairman of Morse Plc, director of Farnham David is Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a non-executive Castle and non-executive director of Nationwide Building Society.
He director of Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group plc, Carillion plc and was previously the Chief Operating Of cer of Cable & Wireless plc, Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa and, before Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited.
His most recent executive that, was Chief Executive of IBM UK Limited.
He has a degree in role was as Chief Financial Of cer of the global hotel group Le politics and economics from Oxford University.
Prior to that he was Chief Financial Of cer of Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines, and Group 02.
Stephen Kelly, 47 Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
David is a fellow of the Chartered Executive director and Chief Executive Of cer Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics Stephen served as Chief Executive Of cer of Chordiant Software Inc. from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
NASDAQ public company from January 2002 until February 2006.
He served as Chordiants President and Chief Operating Of cer from 05.
Paul Pester, 45 October 2000 through January 2002, and as Senior Vice President of Non-executive director Chordiant Software International Limiteds operations from October Paul is currently Managing Director at Banco Santander responsible 1998 to October 2000.
Prior to this, he spent almost ten years in for Bradford & Bingley, and its integration into Santander, and for a number of senior management positions with the Oracle Group.
Previously he was Chief Executive Of cer of He is a non-executive director of Cram Software Limited.
Stephen Moneyfacts Group plc, Managing Director of Consumer Banking at received his BSc with honours in business administration from the Lloyds TSB Group plc, Chairman of the British Bankers Association University of Bath.
Retail Committee, a director at VISA International and Chairman of the Travellers Cheque Association.
Paul holds a first class honours 03.
Nick Bray, 44 degree in physics from Manchester University and a doctorate in Executive director and Chief Financial Of cer mathematical physics from Oxford University.
Nick was previously Group Finance Director of Fibernet Group plc, having joined that company in February 2001.
Tom Skelton, 48 the positions of Group Chief Financial Of cer of Gentia Software plc Non-executive director and Chief Accounting Of cer of Comshare Inc.
He started his career Tom is a founding member of Con uence Medical Systems, a at Price Waterhouse where he quali ed as a chartered accountant.
healthcare and technology consulting partnership.
In his most Nick has a first class honours degree in civil engineering from recent executive role, he served as Chief Executive Of cer for Misys Aston University.
Healthcare Systems from January 2002 until March 2007 and as a director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive Of cer of Medic Computer Systems, a US-based software company focused on the healthcare information technology market.
He earned his BSBA from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Micro Focus Annual Report and 33 International plc Accounts 2009
