Management and governance Key performance indicators KPIs The Company uses several key performance indicators internally to monitor the performance of the business against the achievement of objectives.
A summary of some of the more important KPIs that are used with a brief description on how they are calculated and the results for the year are as follows: Description Metrics Performance Revenue growth 2009 Revenue comprises total revenues including the contribution of acquisitions and is 20.4% compared with the prior year.
2008 33.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin 2009 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation of intangible xed assets, 43.2% exceptional items and share based compensation charge.
The adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the year.
2008 38.8% Cash generation from 2009 This measure is calculated using the cash ows generated from continuing operations operations 112.9% divided by adjusted EBITDA the result indicates that the Group is generating cash from its ongoing business which can be used to reinvest in the development 2008 of the business including nancing acquisitions, fund liabilities and pay dividends 97.3% to shareholders.
amendment made to prior year cash ow resulting in a change from last years disclosure 108.7% Adjusted EPS 2009 Adjusted EPS is calculated by taking income for the financial year, prior to exceptional 41.51c items, amortisation of purchased intangibles and share based compensation charge, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2008 This measure indicates the ability of the Company to continue to adopt a progressive 32.08c dividend policy.
Renewal rates on 2009 Customer retention is an important measure as it supports the maintenance revenue maintenance contracts 89.5% streams going forward.
Renewal rates are calculated as the number of maintenance contracts which were renewed in the period divided by the number of contracts which 2008 were potentially renewable in the period.
89.6% Micro Focus Annual Report and 48 International plc Accounts 2009 Management and governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in annual report con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Gr oup financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with Group: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements the dir ectors report includes a fair review of the development in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting and performance of the business and the position of the Group, Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the directors must not approve the financial that it faces.
statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of By order of the board the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Jane Smithard make judgments and accounting estimates that ar e reasonable Company Secretary and prudent: 12 August 2009 state whether IFRSs as adopted by the Eur opean Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and pr epare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 49 International plc Accounts 2009
