Management and governance Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company Post balance sheet events present their report and the audited financial statements of the The Company announced on 6 May 2009, that it had reached Company for the year ended 30 April 2009. agreement on a recommended cash offer of $1.00 per share for the entire issued and outstanding share capital of Borland Software Principal activities Corporation, Borland, the NASDAQ-listed software provider.
The principal activity of the Group during the year was the provision On 18 June 2009, the Company announced that the offer had of enterprise application management solutions.
been increased to $1.15 per share and on 1 July 2009, the offer was increased to $1.50 per share.
The transaction was completed The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated on 27 July 2009 after receiving approval from the shareholders in the United Kingdom.
The registered of ce of the Company is: of the Company and Borland.
The total gross consideration was The Lawn, 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
Business review The Company announced on 6 May 2009, that it had reached The Group is required to produce a business review complying with agreement to acquire the suite of Application Testing Automated the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that Software Quality ASQ solutions and all related sales, support and ful ls these requirements can be found in this directors report and in development infrastructure together being the Compuware Testing the following sections: and ASQ Business from Compuware Corporation Compuware for a total gross cash consideration of $80.0 million.
The transaction was The Chief Executive Of cers statement on pages 12 to 14, the completed on 29 May 2009. finance review on pages 20 to 24 which include details of the Groups activity and the future development of the Group, the On 6 May 2009, the Company entered into a $175 million credit risk factors set out on pages 17 to 18, and the key performance facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising indicators KPIs on page 48 which are incorporated in this directors Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal report by reference.
Bank of Scotland plc to assist with the funding of the acquisitions above and for general corporate purposes.
On 12 June 2009, this Dividends facility was subsequently increased to $215 million.
The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy re ecting the long-term earnings and cash ow potential of Micro Focus with Directors and their interests a level of dividend cover for the financial year ended 30 April 2009 The directors of the Company who served during the year are as of approximately 2.5 times on a pre-exceptional earnings basis.
follows: In line with the above policy, the directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of 2009 of 11.1 cents per share, Executive which, taken together with the interim dividend of 4.5 cents per Stephen Kelly share paid in January 2009, gives a total dividend in respect of 2009 Nick Bray of 15.6 cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 28 September 2009 to shareholders Non-executive on the register on 4 September 2009.
Dividends will be paid in Kevin Loosemore Chairman Sterling based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.65, equivalent to Prescott Ashe resigned 8 September 2008 approximately 6.73 pence per share, being the rate applicable on David Dominik resigned 18 February 2009 24 June 2009, the date of recommendation of the dividend by David Maloney the board.
Paul Pester Tom Skelton Research and development The Group expensed $34.1 million relating to research and Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the development during the year to 30 April 2009 2008: $29.5 million.
ordinary shares of the Company, as disclosed in the register of In addition, the Group capitalised $7.7 million of qualifying directors interests, are given in the remuneration report on pages expenditure 2008: $5.4 million.
This expenditure was incurred 42 to 47. in improving the quality, functionality and extending the range of the Groups innovative software solutions.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of signi cance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a party Donations during the financial year, except as disclosed in note 28, related party The Companys policy is to make no donations to political parties transactions.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of $27,000 to a number of local and national charities and other local The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and of cers organisations 2008: $31,000.
This included 8,800 to Castle Special of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by School, Newbury and 3,600 to Action for Children.
The Company them while acting as directors and of cers.
has a gift programme that matches employee donations.
It also has a policy in place to encourage employees to volunteer a certain As at the date of this report indemnities are in force under which number of hours to assist local organisations.
the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association against liabilities they may incur in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
Copies of these indemnities are available for review at the registered of ce of the Company.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 34 International plc Accounts 2009 Employment policy Financial instruments Equal opportunities The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital price, credit, cash ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 18 to status, disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national the financial statements.
origin or any other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills Substantial shareholding and abilities.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, at 31 July 2009, the Company had been Disabled employees advised of the following noti able interests in its voting rights: With regard to existing employees and those who may become Ordinary shares Percentage of disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide Name of holder of 10 pence each Issued capital continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and Standard Life Investments Limited 22,023,644 10.92% to provide training and career development, including promotion, Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,330,461 8.17% wherever appropriate.
All employees accept the commitment within BlackRock, Inc 12,863,784 6.36% this policy that the Group will not allow discrimination or harassment GAM International Management Limited 11,717,270 5.84% by employees or others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of JP Morgan Chase & Co 9,963,590 4.96% sex, age, marital status, race, nationality, disability or religious or Legal and General Group Plc 7,835,219 3.88% political beliefs.
Fidelity International Limited 6,605,572 3.30% Employee involvement Additional information for shareholders The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK Groups business strategy and objectives to assist them to focus law, the following description provides the required information for on working towards these goals.
Communications at the time of shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
key announcements, including presentations by directors to all This summary is based on the Companys Articles of Association employees, together with brie ngs throughout the year are part of Articles which came into effect on 1 October 2008. the communication and consultation programme.
In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both to raise issues and Share capital to assist with the two-way ow of information.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Further education and training Continuing education, training and development are important Rights and obligations attaching to shares to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports Voting in a general meeting of the Company: individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education quali cations and reimburses tuition fees up to a speci ed level.
On a show of hands, every member present in person shall have Training needs of all employees are also analysed during the annual one vote: and appraisal process, at which time a training plan is agreed as part of each individuals ongoing development.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
Share option schemes The directors remain committed to the principle that selected No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups sum then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains share based compensation schemes are given in note 23. unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Payment of creditors Deadlines for voting rights Micro Focus International plc, which holds the investments in Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect the Groups companies, does not trade itself and does not have of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on suppliers as fide ned by the Companies Act 1985.
The directors 24 September 2009 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which believe, however, it would be helpful to give the disclosures on a accompanies this report.
Dividends and distributions The Group seeks the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the to their business and in placing orders gives consideration to quality, Companies Act 2006 the Companies Acts, the Company may, by delivery, price and terms of payment.
The Group does not follow ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members, but no a speci c payment code but has a policy to pay its suppliers in dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
The accordance with the speci c terms agreed with each supplier.
The board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, average number of days purchases outstanding at 30 April 2009 for whenever the pro ts of the Company, in the opinion of the board, the Group was 28 days 2008: 28 days.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 35 International plc Accounts 2009 Management and governance Directors report continued Liquidation Appointment and replacement of directors Under the Articles, if the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 11 in number.
may, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution of the Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution Company: or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds of ce only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election by the Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the shareholders and thereafter at least every three years.
The board may assets of the Company: or from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive of ce for such period subject to the Companies Acts Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or trusts for the bene t of members as the liquidator, with the like terminate any such employment.
authority, shall think t. The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice Transfer of shares has been given remove and the board by unanimous decision may Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his remove any director before the expiration of his term of of ce and or her certi ed shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in the Company may elect or the board may appoint another person any usual form or in any other form which the board may approve.
in place of a director so removed from of ce.
The board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certi ed The of ce of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing share which is not a fully paid share provided that, where any such resigns or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer shares are admitted to the Of cial List maintained by the UK Listing ii an order is made by any court claiming that he or she is or may Authority, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on permission of the board from meetings for six months and the an open and proper basis.
The board may decline to recognise any board resolves that his or her of ce is vacated: iv he or she instrument of transfer relating to shares in certi cated form unless it becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors is in respect of only one class of share and is lodged duly stamped generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: if required at the Transfer Of ce accompanied by the relevant share or vi he or she is removed from of ce pursuant to the Articles.
certi cate s and such other evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the transfer or to make the transfer Powers of the directors and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person The business of the Company will be managed by the board who on his behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
In the case of a may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions transfer of shares in certi cated form by a recognised clearing house of the Companys memorandum of association, the Articles, the or a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised Companies Acts and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
investment exchange the lodgement of share certi cates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certi cates have been issued Shares held in the Employee Bene t Trust in respect of the shares in question.
The directors may also refuse to Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Bene t Trust holds register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not shares in the Company and the bene cial interest in those shares has in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject to the Articles not been transferred to a bene ciary of the Trust, the Trustee may and the rules as fide ned in the CREST Regulations, and apart from not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders any class of wholly dematerialised security, the board may permit any of the Company.
class of shares in the Company to be held in uncerti cated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncerti cated shares to be transferred Signi cant agreements by means of a relevant system.
The following signi cant agreement contains provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of Repurchase of shares a change of control of the Company: The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held on 25 September 2008 to buy back up to 20,056,391 ordinary On 13 May 2008 the Company entered into a $40 million credit shares, which remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next facility with HSBC Bank Plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc for general AGM on 24 September 2009.
The minimum price which must be corporate purposes.
On a change of control, the bankers may give paid for such shares is 10 pence and the maximum price payable is not less than five days notice to the Company and cancel the facility the higher of 5% above the average of the mid-market price of the and require repayment of any outstanding loans and interest.
The ordinary shares of the Company as derived from the London Stock facility expired on 12 May 2009.
Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately before the purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article On 6 May 2009 the Company entered into a $175 million credit 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising exclusive of expenses.
Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc to assist with the funding of acquisitions Amendment to the Articles and for general corporate purposes.
On 12 June 2009, the Company Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance entered into a supplemental agreement for an additional $40 million with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of to assist with the acquisition of Borland Software Corporation at an special resolution.
On a change of control, all the facilities become immediately due and payable.
Micro Focus Annual Report and 36 International plc Accounts 2009 The business review does not contain any information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
Branch The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Hong Kong and Sweden.
During the year it opened branches in Portugal, Denmark, Finland and Mexico.
Annual General Meeting AGM The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with the explanatory notes on the proposed resolutions accompanies this report.
The meeting will be held at The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN on 24 September 2009 at 3pm UK time.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report con rm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in of ce and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the AGM.
Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the board Jane Smithard Company Secretary 12 August 2009 Micro Focus Annual Report and 37 International plc Accounts 2009
