52 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 53 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Remuneration Report Other Benefits City Developments Limited nominates Kwek Leng Beng, Kwek Leng Joo Other benefits comprise a motor vehicle or an appropriate allowance and and Kwek Leng Peck as Directors under the terms of the Co-operation insurances for life, personal accident, disability and family medical cover.
Agreement dated 18 April 1996, as amended.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Kwek Leng Joo has appointed Kwek External Appointments Eik Sheng as his alternate.
The Company recognises that executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors of other companies and that such The independent non-executive Directors have letters of appointment appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit renewable annually.
Their appointments are for terms of twelve months of the Group.
Fees payable to executive Directors in connection with such from the commencement dates shown below: external appointments would be retained by them with the approval of the Committee.
Appointment commencement date Non-Executive Directors The non-executive Directors are appointed for a specific term and reChristopher Sneath 7 March 2009 appointment is not a matter of course as each Directors position is Christopher Keljik 3 May 2009 reviewed as they approach re-appointment.
Connal Rankin 7 May 2009 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz 16 June 2009 Fees paid to non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as Alexander Waugh 16 June 2009 a whole taking account of time commitment and responsibilities.
Fees Nicholas George 16 June 2009 cease immediately in the event of the non-executive ceasing to be a Director.
Non-executive Directors do not receive any additional fees for participation in the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees and are not entitled to bonuses, benefits or pension scheme contributions or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
