28 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review Financial Financial Review of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow Introduction variances.
The geographical complexity of the Groups structure makes The following review is based on the Group Financial Statements included the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
on pages 62 to 119 in this Annual Report.
The resolution of issues is not always within the control of the Group The Group Financial Statements are prepared under IFRS.
This review and it is often dependent on the efficacy of the legal processes in the also makes reference to Non-GAAP figures.
Reconciliations to GAAP relevant tax jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Issues can, and figures are given.
often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be substantial The Group faces a number of significant risks that may impact its future differences between the income tax expense in the income statement and performance and activities which are highlighted in the Risk Factors tax payments.
Foreign currency translation Key Performance Indicators The Company publishes its Group Financial Statements in sterling.
The Board monitors the Groups performance on a regular basis.
However, the majority of the Companys subsidiaries, joint ventures and Performance is assessed against budgets and forecasts using financial associates report their revenue, costs, assets and liabilities in currencies and non-financial measures.
other than sterling and the Company translates the revenue, costs, assets and liabilities of those subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates into The following sets out certain of the most significant Key Performance sterling which could materially affect the amount of these items in the Indicators KPIs used by the Group, their purpose, the basis of calculation Group Financial Statements, even if their value has not changed in their and source of underlying data.
The following table sets out the sterling exchange rates of the other principal currencies in the Group.
The Group uses a number of primary measures to assess its performance.
A number of these measures at Group level are presented on a like-for-like At 31 December basis which provides an assessment of the underlying growth excluding the Currency 2009 2008 impact of business acquisitions and disposals and changes in exchange rates.
Financial measures presented on a like-for-like basis are Non-GAAP US dollar 1.596 1.474 financial measures.
For more information on these measures and the basis Singapore dollar 2.245 2.132 of calculation see Non-GAAP Information on page 39.
New Taiwan dollar 51.081 49.295 New Zealand dollar 2.253 2.563 Revenue Malaysian ringgit 5.473 5.139 Review of revenue of the Groups principal markets for the years 2009 and Korean won 1,847.74 1,878.41 2008 is provided in the section headed Business Review Operating.
Euro 1.110 1.052 Revenue based measures Average for year Management believes that revenue based measures provide useful ended 31 December information for investors regarding trends in customer revenue derived Currency 2009 2008 from room sales and the occupancy percentage.
US dollar 1.553 1.859 The data used to calculate these KPIs is derived from a number of sources.
Singapore dollar 2.257 2.628 Room revenue, average room rates and occupancy are derived from hotel New Taiwan dollar 51.654 59.464 property management systems.
New Zealand dollar 2.461 2.592 Malaysian ringgit 5,472 6.200 Occupancy % rooms occupied by hotel guests, expressed as a Korean won 1,969.72 1,995.67 percentage of rooms that are available for sale.
Euro 1.114 1.261 Average Room Rate room revenue divided by the number of room nights Property, Plant And Equipment sold.
Property, plant and equipment represents a significant portion of the asset base of the Group and hence assumptions made to determine RevPAR average room rate multiplied by occupancy percentage also carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial obtained by dividing room revenue by the number of available rooms for performance.
Land and buildings are stated at cost or deemed cost sale.
less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
The assessment for impairment requires the Group to make certain judgements, including Hotel operating profit property valuations and future cash flows from its respective properties.
A Profit derived from hotel operations excluding related central regional review of impairment of property, plant and equipment is made whenever costs, other operating income and impairment, and share of results of events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of joint ventures and associates.
an asset may not be fully recoverable.
Headline operating profit Taxation Headline operating profit is used by the Group for performance analysis The Groups income tax expense is the sum of the total current and as it represents the underlying operating profitability of the Group.
The calculation of the Groups total income tax basis of calculation, along with an analysis of why the Group believes expense necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in it to be a useful measure, is provided in the section titled Non-GAAP respect of certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined Information on page 39. until resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some 28 29 Business Review Financial Headline EBITDA Free cashflow Headline earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Free cash flow is defined as the net increase in cash and cash equivalents EBITDA is calculated as headline operating profit before depreciation less flows from financing activities and flows from the acquisitions or and amortisation.
disposals of subsidiaries operations, joint ventures or associates.
It is a Non-GAAP measure since it is not defined under IFRS, but is used by Headline profit before tax management in order to assess operational performance.
Headline profit before tax is calculated as profit before income tax less other operating income expenses of Group and share of joint ventures Net debt and associates and impairment.
Net debt is calculated as the total of current and non-current interestbearing loans, bonds and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
It is a Non-GAAP measure since it is not defined under IFRS.
Headline profit after tax Headline profit after tax is calculated as headline profit before tax less tax which excludes the impact of change in tax rates on opening deferred The Group believes that it is both useful and necessary to communicate taxation.
net debt to investors and other interested parties, for the following reasons: Headline earnings per share l net debt allows the Company and external parties to evaluate the Headline earnings per share is calculated as basic earnings per share Groups overall indebtedness and liquidity position: before other operating income expenses of Group and share of joint l net debt facilitates comparability of indebtedness and liquidity with venture and associates, impairment net of tax, effect of major tax other companies, although the Groups measure of net debt may legislation changes and change in tax rates on opening deferred taxes.
not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures used by other Details of excluded items are disclosed in note 12 to the Consolidated companies: and Financial Statements and in the business review financial on page 33. l it is used in discussions with the investment analyst community.
Analysis of net debt and calculated gearing percentage is provided below.
Gearing is defined as net debt as a percentage of total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent.
