46 47 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in corporate is the opportunity for non-executive Directors to meet separately with the governance is observed throughout the Group, and remains the Chairman.
responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of business integrity and professionalism in all its activities, The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also and continues to support the highest standards in corporate governance.
responsible for ensuring that new Directors receive appropriate training at the Companys expense where specific expertise is required in the course The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was compliant with of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors receive a Board Compendium the provisions of the Revised Combined Code the Code issued by detailing matters relating to Board procedures.
the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008, save that a between 6 May 2009 and 16 June 2009 the number of independent non-executive The Board has established agreed procedures for managing potential Directors fell below the number required to satisfy Code provision A.
These procedures and any potential conflicts and b following Viscount Thursos retirement from the Board on 6 May authorised in accordance with section 175 4 Companies Act 2006, as 2009 the position of Senior Independent Director remained vacant until permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, are reviewed by the Christopher Keljik was appointed to the role on 16 June 2009.
A copy Board at least annually.
The Board is satisfied that the procedures for of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council www.
managing potential conflicts remain effective.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specific term and The Board re-appointment is not a matter of course as each Directors position is Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, which has reviewed as they approach re-appointment.
Succession planning is responsibility, amongst other things, for setting strategy and ensuring that considered by the Nominations Committee as appropriate.
adequate resources are available and leadership is provided to achieve the Groups strategy.
The Board meets up to ten times a year and has a Christopher Keljik and Wong Hong Ren will retire by rotation at the schedule of matters reserved for its attention.
All Directors receive detailed forthcoming annual general meeting and will stand for re-election.
papers one week prior to Board and committee meetings.
Reserved matters which require Board approval include: acquisitions: significant Viscount Thurso and Charles Kirkwood retired from the Board on 6 May property transactions: capital expenditure above predetermined limits: 2009.
His Excellency Shaukat Aziz, Nicholas George and Alexander major contractual commitments: Board level and Company Secretary Waugh were appointed to the Board on 16 June 2009 and will stand for appointments terminations: significant litigation issues: the Groups election as Directors at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
financial statements: communications with shareholders and approval of certain group-wide policies including health, safety and environment In March 2009 the Company announced that Christopher Sneath, who has policies, treasury policy, ethics policy, anti-bribery policy and whistlebeen an independent non-executive Director since 1999 and is Chairman blowing procedures.
Other matters which are reserved for the Board have of the Audit Committee, intended to retire from the Board.
Mr Sneath is been delegated to its standing committees, details of which are set out expected to retire either at or prior to the Annual General Meeting in 2010, further in this report.
and will be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Nicholas George.
Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Groups operational performance including: implementing Group strategy as Board Committees determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems In relation to certain matters, committees have been established with and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of the Board are against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any significant Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference for these variances: maintaining an effective management team and planning committees are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and succession.
on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all standing committees of the Board.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and two non-executive Directors, who are Directors of the majority shareholder, City Developments Audit Committee Limited, a senior independent non-executive Director, five additional The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, consists entirely independent non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
Each of independent non-executive Directors.
It is considered that Christopher Director is expected to fulfil their duties for the benefit of all shareholders Sneath has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the and it is believed that the independent non-executive Directors provide Code.
The duties of the Audit Committee include: strong independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board.
Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management Directors biographies shown on pages 42 to 44 identify the Chairman, procedures: Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Boards standing committees and other Directors considered by the Board to be Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor and to make independent, having taken consideration of the factors set out in Code appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders provision A.
There have been no significant changes in the Chairmans to consider at the annual general meeting: external commitments since the last annual report.
Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior to the A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Chairman commencement of their works: reviewing the scope and results of the and Group Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and approved by the audit and its cost effectiveness: and recommendation of the audit fee Board.
to the Board: All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who is Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, of periodic responsible for ensuring the Board procedures and applicable rules and financial statements, annual accounts, reports to shareholders and regulations are observed.
In addition, the Directors are able, if necessary, any other public announcement concerning the Companys financial 48 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report Governance position, corporate governance statements and statements on the Board and Committee Meetings Groups system of internal controls: The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during the year are shown below together with attendance details of each Director.
Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible fraud risk or wrongdoing in Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or committee financial reporting or other matters: meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board member or member of the relevant committee.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit Audit Remuneration Nominations function: agreeing the annual work plan and being satisfied itself that Board Committee Committee Committee the function has the proper resources to enable it to satisfactorily Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings complete such work plans: review status reports from the internal audit: considering managements response to any major finding and providing Kwek Leng Beng support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: and ensuring Chairman 8 8 na na 1 1 that the function obtains free and unrestricted access to all Group Richard Hartman 8 8 na na na Wong Hong Ren 8 8 na na na activities, records, property and personnel necessary to fulfil its agreed The Viscount Thurso 1 2 4 4 3 3 na objectives.
Christopher Keljik 8 8 7 7 5 5 1 1 HE Shaukat Aziz 4 5 na 2 2 na The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the independence Christopher Sneath 8 8 7 7 3 3 1 1 and objectivity of the external auditor.
Audit independence and objectivity Nicholas George 5 5 3 3 2 2 na Kwek Leng Joo 3 8 na na na are safeguarded by the Audit Committee monitoring and approving, Kwek Leng Peck 4 8 na na na where appropriate, the nature of any non-audit work and the level of fees Charles Kirkwood 2 2 na 1 3 na paid.
The Audit Committee has concluded that, in some cases, notably Connal Rankin 6 8 4 7 5 5 1 1 the provision of taxation services, the provision of non-audit services by Alexander Waugh 5 5 na na na the auditor is appropriate and this has been communicated to the Board.
Kwek Eik Sheng attended five Board meeting as alternate for Kwek Leng Joo.
Audit independence has been communicated to the Board.
Evaluation Process The external auditor and head of internal audit normally attend all Audit The Board evaluation process has been conducted by the Directors Committee meetings.
Executive Directors and senior management from completing on-line questionnaires which solicit views on the Board the Groups finance function are normally invited to attend.
Separate governance processes, the operation of standing committees and a meetings are held with the external auditor without the presence of any self assessment of individual Directors performances.
Feedback from member of executive management and similar meetings are held with the the evaluation process is compiled by the Company Secretary and head of internal audit.
a report is prepared for consideration by the Board.
In addition, the performance of executive and non-executive Directors is assessed Remuneration Committee annually by the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman and independent The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Connal Rankin and consists non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors in attendance.
entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is responsible for Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by the independent non-executive considering and making recommendations to the Board, within agreed Directors led by the senior independent non-executive Director.
terms of reference, on the Companys remuneration policies, determining the remuneration package of executive Directors and the operation of Internal Control System the Companys employee share-based incentive schemes.
The Group The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, Chief Executive Officer would normally be invited to attend meetings, including the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups if appropriate, but would not be present when his own remuneration process for preparation of consolidated accounts, and for monitoring its is discussed.
The Committee takes independent advice as deemed effectiveness.
In establishing this system, the Directors have considered necessary.
The Directors Remuneration Report is given on pages 50 to the nature of the Groups business, with regard to the risks to which that 57, where further details of remuneration strategy are given.
The fees paid particular business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks occurring, their to non-executive Directors are considered by the full Board, having regard potential impact and the costs of protecting against them.
However, such to any relevant advice received.
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Nominations Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Groups significant The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman and Risk Factors are included in the Business Review on pages 37 and 38. includes three independent non-executive Directors and meets as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the structure, The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, size and composition of the Board, considers succession planning for there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed by the Audit and opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise Committee on behalf of the Board and has been in place for the year are needed on the Board in future.
The Committee is responsible for under review, and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal controls is delegated to executive management.
The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys external auditor, who report to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to an executive committee to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls as part of its standard work programme, and individual 48 49 Directors Report Governance reports are issued to appropriate senior management.
These reports are Auditor summarised and distributed to the Audit Committee, the Group Chief In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution Executive Officer, senior management of the Group and the external auditor.
regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the They are subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures Company will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
that, where necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
Statement of The Directors as to Disclosure of Information to The Auditor The main features of the Groups internal control framework are: The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, which has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and performance himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the targets for each region are set by the executive management team and Companys auditor is aware of that information.
reviewed by the Board on a geographical basis in the light of overall objectives: Annual General Meeting Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by The annual general meeting will be held at 10:00 am on Wednesday, the Board, the day-to-day management is delegated to the Group 5 May 2010 at the Copthorne Tara Hotel Kensington London.
Chief Executive Officer and executive management.
The executive management team receives a monthly summary of the results from the A detailed explanation of each item of non-routine business to be business and carries out regular operational reviews with business considered at the annual general meeting is included with the Notice of managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and Meeting.
management of the primary risks of the Group.
By order of the Board Communication with Shareholders General presentations are made after the announcement of final and half-yearly results.
A regular programme of meetings exists with major institutional shareholders to review the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive Director has meetings with a range of major shareholders during the year and other non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders at these meetings.
Adrian Bushnell At general meetings there is the opportunity for all shareholders to COMPANY SECRETARY question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen of 18 February 2010 the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue put to shareholders and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of the Companys annual general meeting for communication with the Board.
