50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 51 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Remuneration Report Strategy Remuneration under Schedule A of the Combined Code.
Awards under The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority from the Board incentive schemes take into consideration both market and competitive to consider and approve the salaries, incentive and other benefit conditions.
arrangements of the executive Directors and to oversee the Companys share-based incentive schemes.
The Committee also monitors the level Base Salary and structure of remuneration of senior executives who are not board Base salaries are set at levels that reflect, for each executive Director, their members.
A review of rewards strategy is currently being undertaken.
Any performance, experience and market practice amongst similar companies.
change to the elements of Executive Directors packages implemented Base salary levels are reviewed annually.
subsequent to this review will be fully disclosed in the Remuneration Report for 2010.
Annual Bonus The Group operates a non-pensionable annual bonus scheme for executive The Remuneration Committee Directors awarded on the basis of the achievement of agreed profit targets The current members of the Committee, all of whom are independent and personal objectives established by the Committee on an annual basis.
non-executive Directors, are Connal Rankin Chairman, Christopher The maximum bonus payable under the scheme for 2009 is up to 80% Keljik, His Excellency Shaukat Aziz and Nicholas George.
Viscount Thurso of base salary comprising: up to 60% of base salary for achievement of was chairman of the committee until 6 May 2009.
Charles Kirkwood and agreed financial targets relating to EBITDA performance and up to 20% Christopher Sneath served as members of the Committee until 6 May of base salary for achievement of personal objectives.
The annual bonus 2009 and 16 June 2009 respectively.
award policy is currently being considered as part of the rewards strategic review referred to above.
In the event that bonuses were subsequently The Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend found to have been paid on the basis of any material over-statement of meetings as appropriate but they are excluded when their own performance financial performance, the Committee will consider appropriate means of and remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee may consider the payment of a special bonus in circumstances where individuals have had a direct role in generating No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other substantial additional value for shareholders.
For the 2009 trading year the than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided or for the day-to-day financial targets set were not achieved and, accordingly, that element of management of the business of the Company.
The Committee awarded bonus for achievement of personal objectives.
Committee members receive fees as non-executive Directors but do not Share-based Incentive Arrangements receive any pension entitlements or performance-related incentives.
Share-based incentive schemes are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The operation of share-based incentive Remuneration Policy arrangements are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that During the year, the Committee took material advice from their appointed they remain appropriate in the light of market practice, best practice and advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street, a trading name of Hewitt Associates the particular circumstances of the Company.
The Committee considers Limited, who advised the Committee on various matters, including the that the grant levels, performance criteria and vesting schedules remain operation of the Companys share-based incentive schemes and executive appropriate.
Details of individual schemes for Directors and employees remuneration arrangements.
In addition to their advice to the Committee are given below.
they have also advised the Company on the accounting treatment of share options required by IFRS2: Share-based payment.
Other than this, they have no other relationship with the Company.
The Company operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for the executive Directors and other senior executives and the Sharesave Scheme for all UK based employees.
Details of the LTIP and a brief The Committee believes that the long-term interests of shareholders are summary of the Sharesave Scheme are shown on page 54.
There is no best provided through a competitive remuneration policy aiming to attract, current intention to make further awards under the Companys Executive retain and motivate the right calibre of executives to manage the Company Share Option Scheme.
Service Contracts As a result, the total remuneration of executive Directors for the year To reflect current market practice, it is the Committees policy that ahead will continue to comprise base salaries, short-term annual bonuses executive Directors have service contracts that provide for a notice period placed around similar levels for comparable companies, and long-term for termination of up to 12 months.
share schemes as explained below.
Overall, the policy of the Committee is to provide remuneration opportunities linked to the future performance of the Company.
The Committee has established a mitigation policy in the event of early termination of a Directors contract where the contract does not contain a liquidated damages clause.
The Committees aim is to avoid rewarding Directors Remuneration poor performance.
In establishing the remuneration policy for the executive Directors of the Company, the Committee intends that a significant proportion of Directors remuneration be related to individual and corporate performance through the use of annual bonus and share-based incentives.
Levels of pay and benefits are set which reflect the performance of the Group against predetermined budgets, the individual contribution of each Director and market and competitive conditions.
The Groups Head of Human Resources will ensure that the Committee is aware of pay and conditions throughout the Group and that these are taken into account when framing the executive Directors remuneration policy.
The Committee remains mindful of the Best Practice Provisions on the Design of Performance Related
