54 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Remuneration Report Audited Information Vesting of Performance Share Awards is subject to the achievement of Share Options stretching performance targets.
Consistent with the performance measures i Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Executive Share Option Scheme for the Companys executive share options schemes, EPS targets have No further options have been granted under the Millennium & Copthorne been chosen so that participants are incentivised to deliver significant Hotels Executive Share Option Scheme the 1996 Scheme which earnings growth which, in turn should return substantial shareholder value.
Performance targets for future awards are subject to the strategic review of rewards referred to above.
ii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2003 Executive Share Option The performance condition applying to existing Performance Share Scheme Awards require the Companys EPS to grow, in real terms, over a period of The Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 2003 Executive Share Option three consecutive financial years after award.
Performance Share Awards Scheme the 2003 Scheme provides for the grant of both approved will vest on the third anniversary of the award being made, subject to the and unapproved options.
Under the 2003 Scheme options over shares vesting schedule shown in the table below.
Awards will not be subject to worth up to two times base salary may be granted each year although, in re-testing.
exceptional circumstances, such as in a recruitment situation, this limit is four times base salary.
EPS growth target Proportion of award vesting The exercise of options, granted under the 2003 Scheme, is subject to EPS growth of less than an average of RPI the achievement of stretching performance targets.
Earnings per share plus 5% per annum 0% EPS targets were chosen at the time of the grant as the Committee EPS growth of an average of RPI believed that participants in the 2003 Scheme should be incentivised to plus 5% per annum 25% deliver significant earnings growth which, in turn, should return substantial EPS growth of an average of RPI shareholder value.
The EPS performance conditions in respect of all plus 5% per annum to outstanding share options have been met.
Accordingly all share options 13.5% per annum 25% 100% pro-rated are fully exercisable.
EPS growth of an average of RPI plus 13.5% per annum or more 100% No further awards have been made under the terms of the 2003 Scheme since 2005.
It is currently not intended that further awards will be made Performance against all such conditions is subject to independent under the 2003 Scheme.
iii Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Long-Term Incentive Plan No awards of Deferred Share Bonus Awards were made during the year.
The Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Long-Term Incentive Plan was adopted in 2006.
Under the terms of the LTIP, the Company is permitted iv Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Sharesave Scheme to make both Performance Share Awards over shares worth up to a normal The Company also operates the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Sharesave maximum of 150% of salary 200% in exceptional circumstances and Scheme which is an Inland Revenue approved scheme and under which Deferred Share Bonus Awards worth no more than the cash bonus that the UK-based executive Directors and Group employees are eligible to would otherwise have been paid for the year.
The levels of awards made participate.
under the terms of the LTIP are determined by the Committee.
