46 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report Corporate Social Responsibility Going Concern Details of the Groups wider approach to managing its Corporate Social Information on the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group Responsibility CSR can be found on pages 40 and 41 which include faces throughout its global operations are included in Business Review details of charitable donations made during the year.
The CSR report Risk Factors on pages 37 and 38.
The financial position of the Group, is deemed to be part of the Directors Report.
The Board takes regular its cash flows, liquidity position and debt facilities are described in the account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters Business Review Financial on pages 28 to 36.
In addition, note 23 to the business of the Company and identifies value arising from those to the consolidated financial statements sets out the Groups policies matters as well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise from and processes for measuring and managing risk from its use of financial them.
Significant short and long term risks have been identified and instruments in relation to credit risk: liquidity risk and market risk both assessed and the Board believes it has received adequate information to currency and interest rate-related.
Further details of the Groups ensure that the Company has effective systems in place for managing the cash balances and borrowings are included in notes 21 and 22 to the Groups key risks.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are included on consolidated financial statements.
The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of health, safety, period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of these and the environment, Richard Hartman, in his capacity as Group Chief consolidated financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment Executive Officer, has been identified as the Board member responsible of current market conditions.
The forecasts completed on this basis show for these areas.
that the Group will be able to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show continued compliance with the financial covenants.
In addition, management has considered various mitigating actions that Financial Risk Management could be taken in the event that market conditions are worse than their An indication of the Groups financial risk management objectives in current assessment.
Such measures include further reduction in costs respect of the use of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and in capital expenditure.
risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk is set out in the Business Review Risk Factors on pages 37 and 38, and in note 23 to the financial statements.
On the basis of the exercise as described above and the available committed debt facilities, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company.
