Directors report Overview Business review The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report, the Directors audited consolidated financial statements of the Group and the Details of the current Directors of the Company are given on the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended previous page.
Jim Malone, Chief Financial Of cer CFO, resigned as a Director This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the on 9 January 2009. members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
By their In accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association, nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing Sir James Crosby and Philip Rowley having been appointed during the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future the year will retire from the Board and, upon the recommendation events and circumstances can cause results and developments of the Nomination Committee, offer themselves for election at the to differ materially from those anticipated and which are beyond Annual General Meeting AGM.
John King and John Ormerod are the control of the Company.
The forward-looking statements re ect retiring by rotation and, upon the recommendation of the Nomination knowledge and information available at the date of preparation Committee, offer themselves for re-election.
of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Sir Dominic Cadbury will not be seeking re-election to the Board Report should be construed as a pro t forecast.
as more particularly described in the Corporate governance report.
Principal activities Biographical details of all Directors, including those being proposed The Groups principal activities are the development, management for election or re-election, are given on the previous page.
and licensing of a variety of software products and solutions to customers in the financial services and healthcare industries.
Details of executive Directors service agreements, non-executive Misys also partners with world class companies to sell and distribute Directors letters of appointment, emoluments and share interests Misys products and solutions.
can be found in the Directors remuneration report.
Disposals during the period are disclosed in the notes to the Signi cant contracts financial statements.
With the exception of the service contracts and indemnities referred to below, during the year under review and up to the date of this Business review report, no Director other than Jeff Ubben as mentioned below The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review of has had any interest in any material contract with the Company.
the business performance and development of the Group.
A review of the activities of the Group, its financial performance and its ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. ValueAct Capital has a holding likely future business developments, including a description of the of approximately 25.74% in the Company on an aggregated basis.
principal risks and uncertainties, is provided in the Chairmans Jeff Ubben who is a non-executive Director of the Company, is Chief statement, the Chief Executives review, the review of the businesses Executive Of cer and Chief Investment Of cer of, and a principal and the Financial review of this Annual Report all of which are investor in ValueAct Capital and accordingly has an interest in all incorporated into this report by reference.
contracts between the Company and undertakings which are part of the ValueAct Group.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no signi cant events subsequent to 31 May 2009.
Indemnities and insurance The Company has granted indemnities to its Directors in their Financial instruments capacity as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Information on financial instruments is disclosed in the notes to the Company has also granted indemnities to some of the directors financial statements.
Such indemnities remain in force and are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of Dividends s. 309 B Companies Act 1985 or s. 234 Companies Act 2006 as The Directors do not propose to recommend payment of a final applicable.
For some years the Company has purchased insurance dividend for the year 2008: 4.95p final 7.91p total.
It was reported to cover its Directors and Of cers against their costs in defending in last years Annual Report that the Board intended to alter its themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that dividend policy in order to invest cash ow in its operations and capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful consequently did not intend to pay a dividend going forward.
This defence of any proceedings.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity dividend policy is kept under regular review.
provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or deceitfully.
46 Misys plc | Annual Report 2009 www.
com Directors report Search Corporate governance Financial statements Appointment and replacement of Directors Share capital The rules regarding the appointment, retirement and removal of The share capital of the Company comprises ordinary shares Directors are contained in the Companys Articles.
The Companys of 1p each and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Articles may be amended by a Special Resolution of shareholders The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together passed at a general meeting of the Company.
with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary during the year, are shown in the notes to the financial statements.
resolution of the shareholders or by resolution of the Board.
At each At close of business on 28 July 2009 the Company had 594,584,179 AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the Board since ordinary shares in issue, of which 47,504,558 were held in Treasury.
the previous AGM, or for whom it is the third AGM following the Purchase of own shares AGM at which he was elected or last re-elected, shall retire and At the 2008 AGM shareholders authorised the Directors to make offer himself for election or re-election.
market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares up to Powers of Directors a maximum nominal value of 503,928, which represented The Board is responsible for the management of the business of approximately 10% of issued share capital, and to either cancel the Group and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject the shares or hold the shares as Treasury shares which may then to the provisions of relevant law, the Companys Memorandum of be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes of the Association, the Articles and any special resolution of the Company.
Further information on the duties of Directors is set out in the Pursuant to this authority in the financial year ended 31 May 2009 Corporate governance report.
the Company has not purchased any ordinary shares of 1p each.
During the year 700,540 shares were transferred out of Treasury Research and development to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share plans In the markets in which the Group operates, effective research and no shares were cancelled out of Treasury.
and development is vital to maintaining competitive advantage and securing future income streams.
The extent of the Groups Under the 2008 AGM authority, which expires at the conclusion of commitment to research and development is detailed throughout the 2009 AGM, the Company may purchase a further 50,392,800 the Business review.
It is proposed that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming AGM.
People and corporate responsibility Information on employee engagement, equal opportunities Authority to allot shares including policies relating to disabled persons, training and Also included in the special business of the 2009 AGM are proposals ethical and environmental matters along with details on the Groups to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash, and to commitment to community involvement and charitable donations, disapply statutory pre-emption rights, up to prescribed limits.
Further can be found in the section on People and corporate responsibility.
details are given in the Notice of AGM.
Political donations In line with its policy, the Group made no political donations in the year under review 2008: nil and has no plans to do so.
Creditor payment policy It is the Companys policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with its suppliers.
The Company seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is satis ed that the supplier has abided by its contractual obligations.
The trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2009 represent 28 days 2008: 37 days and of the Company represent nil days 2008: 37 days as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
This year the Company has delegated its trade to other Group subsidiaries.
Annual Report 2009 | Misys plc 47 Directors report Overview Business review Substantial shareholdings As at 28 July 2009, the voting interests shown below in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, had been noti ed to the Company.
of ordinary Nature of 2 Holder share capital shares holding ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. 25.74% 140,764,642 Direct VA Partners I, LLC, ValueAct Capital Management, L. P. ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, ValueAct Holdings, L. P. and 1 ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC 25.74% 140,764,642 Indirect Schroders plc on behalf of Schroder Investment Management Ltd, Schroder Investment Management North America Ltd and Schroder & Co Ltd 5.33% 26,708,863 Indirect FMR LLC and its Group 5.14% 25,890,800 Indirect Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 5.06% 27,677,470 See below Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 4.80% 26,298,748 Indirect Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 0.14% 745,317 Direct Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd. 0.12% 633,405 CFDs Highside Capital Management L. P. 4.59% 25,269,730 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc and its subsidiaries 3.99% 21,868,430 Direct Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.16% 16,492,181 Indirect 1 This noti cation has been reported on an aggregated basis and includes the 25.74% holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. shown above.
Shareholders rights Annual General Meeting The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary The 2009 AGM will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday shares, in addition to those conferred by law, are set out in 30 September 2009 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, the Articles.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys A separate circular accompanying this Report contains the Notice report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of AGM and explains the business to be considered at the meeting.
of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
A copy of the Notice is also published on the Companys website.
Further details regarding voting at the AGM and procedures for Going concern the appointment of a proxy can be found in the notes to the Notice After making due enquiries, embracing the normal forecasting of AGM and on the AGM proxy form itself.
process, the Directors consider that the Group and the Company There are no shares carrying special control rights with regard have adequate resources and committed borrowing facilities to to control of the Company.
Shares to be acquired through the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary Consequently, they have continued to adopt the going concern shares in issue and have no special rights.
There are no known basis in preparing the financial statements.
arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person Auditors other than the holder of the ordinary shares.
Each of the Companys Directors in of ce as at the date of this Details of certain restrictions on transfer or voting rights attaching report con rms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit to the Companys ordinary shares are also included in the Articles.
information, that is, information needed by the Companys auditors The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders in connection with preparing their report, of which the Companys that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares auditors are unaware, and that he has taken all steps which he ought or voting rights.
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware Signi cant agreements and change of control of that information.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid,  LLP PwC have expressed their willingness such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property to continue in of ce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them lease arrangements, and employees share plans.
With the exception and authorise the Directors to x their remuneration will be proposed of the bank loan agreements noted above, there is no individual at the forthcoming AGM.
contractual arrangement that is considered to be essential to the By Order of the Board continuing operation of the Group.
In addition, there exist agreements between the Company and its Chief Executive and Kevin Wilson certain senior employees which provide for compensation for loss Company Secretary of of ce or employment due to a takeover bid.
Further information 28 July 2009 is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
