Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Directors report The Directors present their report for the year ended 26 September Bronagh Kennedy Company Secretary 2009.
This Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the Overview and the Operating and financial review the OFR on pages 4 to 27, including the Chief Executives review and the Financial review and Corporate governance statement which are incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given in the OFR and details about financial instruments are shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
Together these sections include information about the Groups business, its financial performance during the year, likely developments and the principal risks and uncertainties associated with the Groups business.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing the Group in this Annual report involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Principal activities Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and Pub Restaurants, with an estate of 1,927 sites, including 46 leased and franchised sites, as at 26 September 2009 located in the UK, and with 43 Pub Restaurants in Germany.
Share capital The Companys authorised and issued ordinary share capital as at 26 September 2009 comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 407,404,004 shares were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 27 September 2008, the Company 13 had 404,210,379 ordinary shares of 8 p in issue.
Details of 24 movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 23 to the financial statements on page 89.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company other than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
At the year end, 429 shares were held in Treasury and The Boards responsibilities include: the Companys employee share trusts held 1,329,600 shares.
Determining the overall business and commercial strategy Identifying the long-term objectives of the Company Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2009 AGM to permit the Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans Directors to undertake market purchases of up to 40,490,000 Determining the basis of allocation of capital of the Companys shares.
This authority will expire at the earlier of Considering all matters relating to a major change of policy the 2010 AGM or 29 March 2010.
No shares have been purchased by the Company during the year.
Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2009 AGM to permit the Directors to allot shares up to a nominal value of 11,528,000.
This authority will expire at the earlier of the 2010 AGM or 29 March 2010.
Since the AGM, shares with a nominal value of 153,613 were allotted.
For our latest financial information go to: The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders www.
com investors that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 31 Directors report continued Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued Directors indemnity share capital of the Company as at the year end are set out in the As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the Remuneration report on page 55. benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Final dividend The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year and No final dividend will be paid for the year ended 26 September is currently in force.
The Company also purchased and maintained 2009 2008 nil.
No interim dividend was paid during the year throughout the financial year Directors and Officers liability 2008 4.55p per share.
insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
No indemnity is provided for the Companys auditors.
Interests in voting rights As at 25 November 2009 the Company had been notified, under Conflicts of interest Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, of the following significant The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal Piedmont Inc. 93,047,373 22.83% Direct interest system in place for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to Elpida Group Ltd 71,694,429 17.59% Direct interest be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no Axa S. A.
20,462,125 5.02% Direct and indirect interest Standard Life Investments 19,710,009 4.84% Direct and indirect interest interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to BNP Paribas Arbitrage Snc 17,707,011 4.34% Direct interest authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are Legal & General 16,042,776 3.94% Direct interest required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to MF Global UK Limited 13,074,057 3.21% Direct interest promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange or conditions when giving authorisation or subsequently if they on 30 October 2009 of 407,545,542 think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue Directors to operate effectively.
Details of the Directors as at 25 November 2009 and their biographies are shown on page 28.
Related party transactions Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party During the year, the following changes took place: transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded.
Director Leaving date Appointment date Aaron Brown 08 10 08 Tim Smalley 08 10 08 Essential contracts or arrangements George Fairweather 31 12 08 The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other Mike Bramley 30 04 09 arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
The Tim Clarke 21 05 09 Simon Laffin 29 01 09 Company has a number of contractual agreements with suppliers Richard McGuire 16 07 09 in support of its business activities.
However, whilst the loss of some Denis Jackson 28 08 09 of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none are Ray MacSharry 28 08 09 considered to be essential to the business of Mitchells & Butlers.
Following the year end Tony Bates and Douglas McMahon were Change of control provisions appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 13 October 2009 and The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling 18 November 2009 respectively.
Directors are appointed in the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the accordance with the Articles of Association which stipulate that any event of a change of control of the Company: Director appointed during the year must stand for reappointment an unsecured term and revolving facilities agreement at the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
Directors who wish as described more fully on page 84: and to continue in their role must submit themselves for re-election at an three interest rate swap agreements with a total initial notional AGM at least every three years.
In addition such further Directors amount of 150m as described more fully on page 86. if any must retire by rotation to bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the Under the terms of each of these agreements a change of control date of the notice of meeting.
Any Director appointed during the occurs if any person or Group of persons acting in concert gains year will not be counted in determining the one-third who should control of the Company.
stand for re-election by rotation.
There were no payments made during the year as compensation for loss of office.
There are no provisions in the Directors service agreements nor in any employees contracts providing for compensation for loss of Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the office or employment occurring because of a takeover.
Company, Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder directors to the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Share Incentive Plan will share capital of the Company, and the right to appoint one invite participants on whose behalf it holds shares to direct it how to shareholder director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of vote in respect of those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares the Company but less than 22%.
In the event that Piedmont Inc. or other transaction which would lead to a change of control of the owns less than 16% of the Company any such shareholder directors Company, participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree to would be required to resign immediately.
The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Employee 32 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the Company, vote or Charitable donations and charitable activity abstain from voting any shares it holds or accept or reject an offer The Company continues to support community initiatives and relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it may take all or any charitable causes, full details of which are given on pages 14 to 18 of the following matters into account: the long-term interests of the OFR.
of beneficiaries, the non-financial interests of beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former Employees and customers with disabilities employees, the interests of future beneficiaries and considerations The Company is committed to providing equal opportunity to all of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
employees and equality of service provision to our disabled customers without discrimination and we are supportive of the employment Employees and advancement of disabled and disadvantaged persons.
The Group employed an average of 42,023 people in 2009 2008 40,774.
Details of the Groups employment policies are shown Political donations on pages 11 to 18 of the OFR and a more detailed account can be The Company made no political donations during the year and found in our separately published Corporate Social Responsibility intends to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
com csrreview however, as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek shareholder authority at its 2010 AGM to make limited Employee engagement donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee intention of using the authority.
involvement in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates two HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the Going concern Sharesave Plan and the Share Incentive Plan, and it also operates The financial statements which appear on pages 57 to 106 two plans on a selective basis, which are the Performance Restricted have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making Share Plan and the Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan.
Further appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation details on the selective plans are included within the Remuneration that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational report on pages 42 to 55. existence for the foreseeable future.
During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom Funding and liquidity risk limits for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy rules of the above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit is aligned with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee trust to acquire shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy regularly assesses the maturity profile of the Groups debt, share awards in order to manage headroom under the plan rules.
alongside the prevailing financial projections and three year plan.
This enables it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate to At 26 September 2009, the position under the 5% in 10 years support the Groups plans.
limit for discretionary plans was that shares equivalent to 3.97% of the ordinary share capital had been allocated and under the The current funding arrangements of the Group consist primarily of 10% in 10 years limit for all share plans was that shares equivalent the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and to 4.57% of the ordinary share capital had been allocated.
associated liquidity facility and the medium-term funding facility drawn by Mitchells & Butlers Retail No.
2 Ltd. Further information Health and safety regarding these arrangements is included in note 19.
The terms It is important to the Group to provide and maintain a safe environment of both the securitisation and the medium-term facility contain a for all employees, customers and other visitors to its premises.
The number of financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants Group seeks to comply with relevant health and safety legislation.
is monitored by Group treasury.
Details are included on pages 16 and 17 of the OFR.
The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six Environmental and social responsibility week period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts Mitchells & Butlers recognises that it is part of a wider community are reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in a way that and borrowing requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash respects the environment and the social well-being of others.
pooling and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure A summary of the Companys approach to these issues is set out the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
Committed facilities on pages 14 to 18 of the OFR and a more detailed account can be outside of the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group can found in our separately published Corporate Social Responsibility meet its medium-term anticipated cash flow requirements.
com csrreview Additional information for shareholders Policy on payment of suppliers Following the implementation of the EU Takeovers Directive into Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company and has no trade UK law, the Company is required to provide certain information creditors.
The information required is included elsewhere within this Directors report.
In addition the Company is required The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is to agree to inform shareholders that the Companys Articles of Association particular terms with major suppliers and to abide by those terms, may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
to other suppliers are settled in the month following that in which the subsidiaries receive a valid invoice.
The average number of days the Group takes to pay an invoice is 38 days 2008 39 days.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 33 Directors report continued Annual General Meeting in the shareholder circular.
If you would like to register any The notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held questions you may have in advance of the AGM you can do so at at 11am on Thursday 28 January 2010 is contained in a circular www.
com sent to shareholders with this report.
This meeting will be held at the International Convention Centre in Birmingham.
At the Auditors meeting, resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Directors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights and office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will be to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own put to shareholders at the AGM.
Following the implementation of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companies Shareholders Rights By order of the Board Regulations 2009, resolutions are also proposed to authorise the Bronagh Kennedy calling of general meetings other than annual general meetings Company Secretary on 14 clear days notice and to make certain amendments to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Companys Articles of Association to bring them in line with the Company registration number 4551498 Companies Act 2006.
Full details of these resolutions are provided 25 November 2009 Directors responsibility statement A copy of the financial statements of the Company is posted The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, on the Companys website www.
The Directors are the Remuneration report and the financial statements Group and responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Company in accordance with applicable UK laws and regulations.
and financial information included on the website.
Information UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial published on the Companys website is accessible in many statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
by the European Union EU and applicable UK law.
Further, they have elected to prepare the Company financial statements Each of the Directors, the names and functions of whom are set in accordance with UK accounting standards UK GAAP and out on page 28, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge applicable UK law.
they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable accounting In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required standards and that the financial statements give a true and fair to: view of the assets, liabilities and financial position and profit of select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: the Group and the Company and of the Groups income statement make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and for that period.
In addition each of the Directors confirms that the prudent: management report represented by the Directors report includes for the Group financial statements, state whether they have a fair review of the development and performance of the business been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the position of the Group, together with a description of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the financial statements: and for the Company financial statements, state whether Disclosure of information to auditors applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors subject to any material departures disclosed and explained are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the financial statements.
by Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting all steps that ought to have been taken to make themselves records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that financial position of the Company and the Group and enable the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
them to ensure that the Annual report and financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to the By order of the Board Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Bronagh Kennedy They are also responsible for the system of internal control for Company Secretary safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and 25 November 2009 hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
34 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009
