Operating and Financial Shareholder Overview financial review Reports statements information Glossary Key performance indicators Alignment of remuneration it combines the increase in the value of from page 45.
From FY 2010 the incentives with key performance the Companys shares with any dividend KPIs will be altered to be aligned with indicators KPIs returns made to shareholders.
EPS growth and It is a key principle of the Group to align Butlers TSR performance compared with incremental return on capital over a four the interests of the Directors and other its selected comparator group forms the year period will be used as the key metrics employees with those of its shareholders.
other performance condition used within to gauge the performance of capital Executive remuneration therefore includes the PRSP scheme.
investment as EPS including depreciation measures linked to the KPIs below.
as a capital charge is a good reflection Same outlet like-for-like growth, EPS and For the purposes of remuneration of Group returns and incremental return incremental return on expansionary capital schemes, TSR is calculated over the life on capital demonstrates returns on recent are used as performance measures within of the scheme rather than as an annual investments.
It is therefore the opinion the Short-Term Deferred Incentive Plan measure.
Over the last three years the of the Remuneration Committee that and the amount by which cash return Groups TSR has declined significantly these measures better reflect management on cash capital employed CROCCE reflecting the effect of the swap losses, and share price performance.
As a exceeds weighted average cost of capital the recent economic and market pressures result the CROCCE in excess of WACC WACC is one of the measures used as well as the decline in the stock market measurement will not be used from within the Performance Restricted Share performance of the pub sector over FY 2010 onwards.
In FY 2009 Mitchells & Butlers implemented Total shareholder return TSR is also Various changes have been made to the and monitored its performance against an important measure of performance FY 2010 remuneration measures and these its strategy principally through four KPIs.
for Mitchells & Butlers shareholders as are outlined in the Remuneration report The performance in the year was as follows: KPI KPI definitions Progress in FY 2009 1.
Same outlet The sales this year compared to the sales in the previous year of all Mitchells & Butlers operational and marketing plans have delivered like-for-like sales managed pubs that were trading throughout the two years being robust like-for-like sales growth of 1.6% in FY 2009 compared with growth compared, expressed as a percentage.
The increase in this trajectory is notable given the challenging recessionary trading conditions which the business has faced over the year.
EPS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the year compared to last year, as Operating profit before exceptional items in FY 2009 was down reported in the financial statements, expressed as a percentage.
12.5% on the previous year as a result of increased food, energy and regulatory costs and a one-off profit of 11m from our property development division in FY 2008.
As a result of increased interest costs in relation to the unsecured medium-term facility, earnings per share before exceptional items and other adjustments declined by 23.9% to 23.6p per share a decrease of 11.3% in FY 2008.
CROCCE in The post-tax cash return on cash capital employed compared to the Mitchells & Butlers aims to maximise the difference between excess of WACC weighted average cost of capital post tax, where the cash return the post-tax CROCCE and its WACC.
A CROCCE of 9.8% is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation less after tax was achieved in the 52 weeks to 26 September 2009, cash tax that would be charged on operating profit without any tax ahead of the estimated 6% WACC for the year, reflecting good shield from interest.
Cash capital employed is average net operating operating performance supported by an efficient use of the assets, plus average accumulated depreciation, plus goodwill balance sheet.
CROCCE was 10.6% after tax in the 52 weeks to written off, less the historical revaluation reserve.
The WACC is the 27 September 2008, around four to five percentage points ahead post-tax weighted average cost of capital, calculated using the postof our estimated WACC for that year.
tax cost of debt during the year and the cost of equity, weighted according to the proportion of the Group financed through debt and equity.
Incremental Incremental return is the growth in annual pub operating profit The performance in this area has been strong and remains well return on expressed as a percentage of the associated capital investment above our cost of capital.
Pre-tax returns of 13% are being achieved expansionary for sites having received expansionary investment over the last on the expansionary capital projects carried out over the last two capital two financial years.
Pubs are included once they have been years 10% on the same basis at FY 2008. trading for three months.
For pubs which have not been trading for a full 12 months, incremental return is estimated based on an annualisation of actual post-investment trading.
Expansionary capital is capital invested to increase the trading area of a pub or to materially change the customer offer.
Expansionary capital represents investment over and above the maintenance investment cycle for a pub.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2009 19
