qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 10 MITIE Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review A review of our strategy by the Chief Executive Market overview Public sector We have a wide range of clients, and exposure to many market sectors.
Overview Summary of key sectors This provides us with a balanced portfolio Public sector spending is likely to take Education of market conditions and protects our an increasingly dominant position Education is a solid long-term market earnings from fluctuations.
This is particularly as UK economic conditions remain for both capital and operational important in the current economic climate uncertain.
There is a trend towards where we are seeing uncertainty in some the procurement of integrated FM services Key facts: sectors that is likely to continue in the which counteracts the diverse nature of Spending committed until 2012 in short-term.
Both the Building Schools areas such as education, housing for the Future and PFI programmes are Currently our business demonstrates and healthcare: major drivers of growth.
MITIE is the largest a 59 41 private public sector split in its Capital and maintenance expenditure PFI FM education service provider in UK.
revenues and we believe that this remains split 50:50: Target market size is 13.0bn pa and an appropriate split for our business and our market share is 1.0%.
It is possible that this may Trend towards consolidation change in the short-term as a higher of suppliers and procurement Government central and local proportion of GDP is represented by of integrated FM services: and Government spending is forecast to government spending, but is appropriate remain stable in the short-term.
In the Pressures on public purse likely in the longer-term.
medium-term, budgets will be under to encourage further outsourcing, pressure as tax revenues decrease.
We target our sales and marketing more commercial procurement Government departments and local resources at those sectors that we and increased spend on FM services.
authorities such as existing clients: the believe offer the greatest opportunity Department for Communities and Local and our sector focus varies as economic Government: the Department for Culture conditions change.
Our business model Media and Sport: and The Department gives us the flexibility to take advantage for Education and Skills will require greater of opportunities as they arise.
Private sector Overview Summary of key sectors Education and healthcare are We have a high quality private sector Finance and professional services good areas to be established in client base with strong representation MITIE has a significant presence in the During the year, we have been across many sectors.
However, most finance services sector with all businesses successful in increasing our penetration of the education and healthcare private sector businesses are expected to having major contracts.
We have secured key be cutting back on expenditure over the placed to work in partnership with clients contracts in the Building Schools for next 1218 months as economic conditions such as PwC, Standard Life, and Barclays the Future scheme to provide facilities remain uncertain.
Clients are focused on to increase cost effiency and to provide management to schools in Derbyshire and Kent.
In the healthcare market, optimising the efficiency of their cost base.
facilities management and service delivery we have secured more work with This means that outsourcing contracts across the UK.
The current impetus for Great Ormond Street and new work are becoming larger, covering more change is creating an unprecedented with North Middlesex Hospital and St Georges Healthcare NHS Trust.
Target market size Consolidation, particularly amongst our is 5.0bn pa and our market share is 4.3%.
clients, creates uncertainty, but also Transport and logistics provides an opportunity to increase Transport is a key sector for MITIE.
a long-term growth sector where our Key facts: specialist services and sector focus Construction sector will be challenging are highly attractive to clients.
We are for at least 18 months: having a high degree of success in this sector, extending existing and securing More opportunity in FM where new contracts with BAA, FirstGroup and MITIE provides essential services: Eurostar.
Target market size is 11.0bn pa Availability of labour should improve: and our market share is 0.7%.
and Selectivity of opportunities is crucial.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 11 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Business review Looking forward We are delivering a strong and consistent Local Government Strategic Partnerships Healthcare financial and operational performance.
will leverage private sector skills and Healthcare is a market with considerable Our business is growing well and we finance to improve efficiency.
There will potential for increased levels of outsourcing are experiencing a very strong sales be a trend towards larger contracts with with spending driven by the UKs ageing pipeline.
Clients budgets in both the a broader range of management and population demographic.
The sector public and private sector are under service provision.
Target market size is offers stable revenue streams and low pressure, supporting demand for efficiency 7.0bn pa and our market share is 3.9%.
credit risk with clients such as: St Georges and value for money, which in turn leads and North Middlesex Hospital in London: to more outsourcing.
Social housing Hull Hospital: and Great Ormond Street Social housing is a key public policy area We know that the global economic Hospital.
Target market size is 11.0bn pa with the need for sustainable communities environment is going to remain challenging and our market share is 0.8%.
The development for some time but we operate in a market and maintenance of high quality public where contracts are becoming more housing stock is a core part of government sophisticated, larger and longer term in strategy.
Decent Homes programmes and duration.
This gives us confidence in our repair and maintenance contracts offer business model as we expand our strategic us considerable opportunity.
Government offering to our clients.
has ambitious plans for affordable housing We have a exible business, which can through the Homes and Communities easily adapt to meet our clients changing Agency to support local governments needs.
With the significant level of current and communities.
This sector, with opportunities, we are confident that our clients such as Birmingham City Council, future performance will remain strong.
Dacorum Borough Council and Milton Keynes District Council offers good We are encouraged by the contracts that growth potential with long-term contracts.
we have recently secured and anticipate Target market size is 10.0bn pa and continued strong growth in the years ahead.
Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive Utilities Retail The utilities companies represent an The majority of the retail market is attractive market for MITIE with dependable focused on cost reduction.
We are cash ow and spending commitments.
working closely with our clients to meet In common with many other sectors the their business needs.
Target market is drive for improved operational efficiency 5.0bn pa and our market share is 2.1%.
is leading to larger, longer term contracts.
Property management Sustainability and renewable energy are This market is heavily influenced key areas.
We have a good presence in this by property occupancy levels.
market with major contracts with RWE npower Traditionally, contracts are single service.
Target market size There is little trend towards multi-service is 8.0bn pa and our market share is 1.0%.
Target market size is Technology and communications 6.0bn pa and our market share is 1.8%.
Our focus in this area is in data centre Leisure and infrastructure support and regular As a high proportion of leisure spend is maintenance and support activities.
discretionary we are introducing innovation MITIE supports the capital and revenue for our clients to improve efficiency.
expenditure streams in this market.
Target market size is 2.0bn pa and our Target market size is 4.0bn pa and market share is 2.3%.
Manufacturing An important sector for MITIE and one where we are actively supporting our clients in these challenging times.
Our focus is to develop our long-standing relationships with key clients such as Rolls-Royce.
Target market size is 5.0bn pa and our market share is 2.7%.
