qxd:Layout 1 1 6 09 16:29 Page 14 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 Business review Key factors that could affect our business MITIEs system of internal control is designed to support our strategy and to identify and manage the risks that have the potential to impact upon MITIE and upon the environment in which we operate.
On page 44 of the Directors and governance report, we have detailed the processes that we use to identify and manage these risks.
In the table below, we have highlighted the principal risks and uncertainties that could aect us.
Risk area Potential impacts Mitigation Funding may not be readily available Committed banking facilities of 230.0m Financial risk, including liquidity to support the expansion of the are in place until 2012 in addition to 35.0m Strategy area Groups activities.
of overdraft facilities to support day-to-day Risk operations and strategic growth targets.
Responsibility Operational cash ow is prioritised through profitability a set of KPIs and the Group had net funds Acquisitions of 10.9m at 31 March 2009.
Clients Pension fund assets may not meet future Trustees manage the pension liabilities and pension liabilities.
the required contribution rates are set on the basis of independent actuarial advice.
The Groups own dened benefit scheme is well funded, and we aim to maintain a broadly neutral funding position in the medium-term.
Management of pension risk on contracts requires the support of independent advisers and the approval of the Group Finance Director, and in certain cases, the Board.
Financial performance of the business Financial trading performance compared could be adversely affected by uncertain to budget is reviewed on a monthly basis.
Loss of clients, Cash performance is monitored daily.
a reduction in services taken by clients, Systems are in place to monitor and and failure to adhere to credit terms as manage credit risk exposure across the a result of changes in their own financial Groups client base.
position could affect the Group.
Large account management strategy including Director level client relationships where appropriate, ensures a consistent focus on changes in our clients environments and financial position.
Health and Safety failures may lead Responsibility for Health and Safety rests Health, safety and environment to a serious injury or fatality of an with the Chief Executive who is supported Strategy area employee, client or member of the public.
by the Board, line management and Risk Property damage or air water pollution advised by the Head of Health, Safety and Responsibility may lead to significant financial penalties, Environment and a network of dedicated People loss of reputation, criminal convictions health, safety and environment advisers.
A structured training programme is in place to develop and improve employee health and safety knowledge.
Processes and procedures are accredited to OHSAS 18001and are under regular review to ensure a safe working environment for our employees, our clients and the public.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 11:49 Page 15 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Business review Risk area Potential impacts Mitigation A system failure, failure to control systems Infrastructure requirements are regularly Infrastructure and systems implementation, including SAP, or the reviewed by the Board to ensure they are Strategy area collapse of our infrastructure would limit appropriate to the operations undertaken Clients MITIEs ability to meet operational and and assist with the successful delivery of Risk regulatory commitments which may lead services to clients.
Responsibility to contractual breaches and fines.
profitability Investment in our infrastructure and systems New systems implementations are will improve the reliability of our services appropriately resourced and controlled.
and enhance our brand reputation.
The Group is increasingly tendering for, The internal control environment includes New business, business and securing, more complex and larger a strict bid and contract review process retention and contracting multi-service business.
If risks are not priced along with an approval mechanism.
Strategy area correctly on a complex or large multiThe bid and contract review involves Clients service contract the financial performance both internal and external specialists, Risk of the contract will be affected, leading to and for material bids, the Board.
profitability pressure on service delivery and potentially loss of business over time.
Greater opportunities to secure new Potential opportunities and the bid pipeline work in the current climate as potential is monitored by the Executive Board.
clients focus on cost efficiencies and look to outsource their non-core services.
The strategic risks associated with An experienced due diligence team, Acquisitions acquisitions include a failure to ensure supported by internal specialists and Strategy area a cultural t: a failure to gain visibility of, external professionals advise the Risk and price in, key risk issues: and a failure Executive Board throughout each profitability to realise synergistic and operational acquisition process.
These may All material acquisitions are approved result in financial targets not being met.
by the Board and following the purchase an Executive Director is appointed as an integration sponsor who is responsible for ensuring a smooth and successful transition.
Failure to adhere to regulations concerning Early involvement of HR and legal Employment regulations the transfer of staff in and out of the specialists prior to transfer supported Strategy area business would result in business disruption by external specialists.
People Risk The employment of persons who do not Processes are in place to ensure that Responsibility have the right to work in the UK would all legally required documentation profitability lead to significant financial penalties and is obtained from employees and damage to the MITIE brand and reputation.
Without the right mix of employees MITIE Regular review of remuneration, Skill shortages would be unable to deliver, mobilise and incentivisation and reward structures.
Strategy area service existing and new contracts.
Ongoing emphasis on equity based Clients incentivisation for employees and other People employee incentive and reward schemes.
Risk MITIE has signed up to the UK Governments Skills Pledge to help all eligible employees achieve the equivalent of five GCSEs at grades A - C Construction, Engineering and Facilities Management apprentice schemes are in place.
