qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:18 Page 36 MITIE Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Introduction The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the MITIE group of companies Group for the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Directors and governance report is comprised of the Directors report, the corporate governance report, the report of the Audit Committee, the Directors responsibility statement, all other parts of this Annual Report and Accounts and those documents that are referred to within this report and are available at www.
Compliance with the Code The Board recognises that the manner in which the Group is governed is critical to the long-term success of the business and is committed to the principles of corporate governance, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders, as detailed in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 Code.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, provides details of key aspects of MITIEs corporate governance environment and explains the manner in which the Board has applied the principles and provisions of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2009 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code with the exception that: the Board did not consist of at least an equal number of independent Non-Executive and Executive Directors Code A.
3.2 between 1 April 2008 and 31 March 2009 further details relating to this non-compliance are provided on page 39 this non-conformance will be rectied upon the appointment of Terry Morgan: and, the Audit Committee did not consist of at least 3 independent Non-Executive Directors Code C. 3.1 between 31 July 2008 and 31 March 2009 further details relating to this non-compliance are provided on page 42 this non-conformance will be rectied upon the appointment of Terry Morgan: the Nomination Committee did not consist of a majority of independent non-executive directors Code A.
4.1 between 31 July 2008 and 31 March 2009 if the Chairman is included in such calculation further details relating to this non-compliance are provided on page 41.
These non-compliances have principally arisen following the retirements of David Ord and Cullum McAlpine as Directors of the Company and the appointment of Roger Matthews to the role of Chairman having previously been an independent Non-Executive Director.
During the reporting period the Board has been conducting an extensive search for an additional Non-Executive Director and is pleased to announce that Terry Morgan will be joining the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2009.
Further details of this search process and appointment are given on page 39.
Basis of report This report together with the other parts of this Annual Report and Accounts and other documents incorporated by reference has been prepared, and is published, in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in relation to this report are subject to the limitations provided by such law.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:18 Page 37 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Governance Board of Directors Roger Matthews Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Roger was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of MITIE Group PLC in December 2006 and was later appointed as Non-Executive Chairman in July 2008.
Roger previously held the roles of Group Finance Director of J Sainsbury plc and Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director of Compass Group PLC.
Roger is Non-Executive Chairman of LSL Property Services PLC.
Ian Stewart Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Ian was appointed as Chief Executive of MITIE Group PLC in 2001 and was appointed as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 30 March 2007.
Ian was a founding member of MITIE.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Generation UK Limited, suppliers of scaffolding, access and safety systems.
Ruby McGregor-Smith Chief Executive Ruby was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Group PLC in December 2002, later appointed as Chief Operating officer in September 2005 and subsequently as Chief Executive in March 2007.
Prior to joining MITIE, Ruby held a range of senior roles within the support services sector, primarily at Serco Group plc.
In addition, she is a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc and Chair of Race for Opportunity, a part of the Business in the Community BitC organisation with a focus on diversity in the workplace.
Suzanne Baxter Group Finance Director Suzanne was appointed as Group Finance Director of MITIE Group PLC in April 2006.
Prior to joining MITIE, she specialised in mergers and acquisitions related transaction support and also held a number of commercial and operational roles with Serco Group plc.
Suzanne holds a seat on the Opportunity Now Advisory Board, a part of the BitC organisation with a focus on gender diversity in the workplace, and is also a member of the Finance and Risk committee of BitC.
Roger Goodman Group Corporate Development Director Roger joined MITIE Group PLC in 1993 and was appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001.
Roger is a Non-Executive Director of The Business Services Association and Asset Skills Council, which advocates the growth of the support services industry prole and the development of skills in the sector.
In addition, he is Chairman of Networkers International plc.
Bill Robson Director responsible for Property Services Bill joined MITIE Group PLC in January 1992 following the acquisition of Trident Maintenance Services Limited and was appointed as an Executive Director in August 2001.
David Jenkins Senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee David was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2006.
David was previously a senior Partner with Deloitte LLP in London having spent over 20 years in Assurance and Advisory Services.
David is Chairman of Development Securities PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Renewable Energy Systems Holdings Limited.
He is a Governor of Downe House School.
Ishbel Macpherson Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ishbel was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
Ishbel was previously an investment banker for over 20 years specialising in UK mid-market corporate finance and held positions at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and Hoare Govett.
Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director of Dignity plc and GAME Group plc and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at Speedy Hire Plc and Hydrogen Group plc.
Graeme Potts Non-Executive Director Graeme was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2006.
Graeme previously held appointments with Inchcape PLC, RAC Motoring Services and Reg Vardy plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BEN, the Motor & Allied Trades Benevolent Fund and is Non-Executive Chairman of Bikers Legal Defence Limited.
Graeme is a Managing Director of Eden GM Limited, a motor retail group.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Further biographical details of those Directors seeking re-appointment at the 2009 AGM are provided in the Notice of AGM which will be available at www.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:18 Page 38 MITIE Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Business review Principal activities MITIE Group PLC the Company is the holding company of the Group.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the Group.
The Groups activities are focused on the provision of strategic outsourcing and asset management services in support of the buildings, facilities and infrastructure of its clients.
Further details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the reporting period are listed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
Business review The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of the Group during the reporting period including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the reporting period and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Details of this review are contained in this Directors and Governance Report and the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: the Chairmans statement on page 5: the Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 11: the operating review including the statement of principal risks and uncertainties on pages 14 to 27: and the financial review on pages 28 to 30. profit and dividends The profit before taxation for the financial year is 75.9m 2008: 67.9m.
The Directors have declared recommended dividends as follows: paid on 5 February 2009 an interim dividend of 3.3p per Ordinary share 10.7m recommended a final dividend of 3.6p per Ordinary share 11.6m total Ordinary dividend 6.9p per share 2008: 6.0p 22.3m The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, will be paid on 7 August 2009 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 10 July 2009.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Council guidance on going concern issued in November 2008.
The Group benets from a well diversied portfolio of service offerings providing stability in the current economic climate.
In addition the Group has a broad, diverse customer base with a good balance between public and private sectors underpinned by a large number of long-term contracts contributing to a forward order book of 4.9bn.
MITIE benets from a very strong balance sheet: the Group has available 230.0m of committed funding lines, of which 220.0m remained undrawn at 31 March 2009, which are not renewable until 2012 and the Group currently operates well within the financial covenants associated with this facility.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully and accordingly the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its annual report and accounts.
Corporate governance Board of Directors The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2009 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on pages 36 and 37.
During the year two Non-Executive Directors retired from the Board David Ord and Cullum McAlpine.
David Ord was succeeded as Chairman by Roger Matthews a Non-Executive Director of the Company since December 2006 on 31 July 2008.
Roger Matthews consequently stepped down from the Audit Committee.
Cullum McAlpine was succeeded as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as Chairman of the Audit Committee by David Jenkins on 31 July 2008.
David Jenkins consequently stepped down as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and was replaced by Roger Matthews.
These retirements and Board changes occurred in accordance with the Boards pre-existing orderly succession planning.
Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Acts.
All Directors are subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Code.
The Notice of AGM contains details of those Directors who are retiring by rotation and are proposed for re-election.
As part of the formal Board evaluation, the Board has considered the performance of each Director seeking re-election and is satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate clear commitment to their role.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:18 Page 39 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Governance Director independence During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2009, with the exception of the Deputy Chairman Ian Stewart, were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
Specic consideration was given to David Jenkins prior role with Deloitte LLP previously Deloitte & Touche LLP, MITIEs external auditors.
The Board determined that David is independent given that he had not been involved in the provision of services to MITIE and the passage of time since his departure from Deloitte LLP.
Board and committee composition and balance As part of the ongoing review of Board performance as set out below the Nomination Committee and the Board specifically reviewed the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and the composition and chairmanship of each of its committees.
The Board and the Nomination Committee recognised that, partly as a result of the changes in Board composition detailed above, there was an imbalance in the number of non-independent Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board was broadly satisfied that its composition was appropriate having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the business, and having regard to its desire that the Board does not become too large and unwieldy.
However, it was mindful of the need to maintain a balanced board and consequently announced the initiation of a search process for an additional independent Non-Executive Director to serve on the Board and the Audit Committee.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the skills, knowledge and experience required to ll this additional position and provided a detailed specication to the external search consultancy engaged to conduct the search process.
This detailed search process was concluded on 30 March 2009 when the Board was pleased to announce that Terry Morgan will be joining the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2009.
Terry will serve on the Audit Committee and will Chair the Remuneration Committee with effect from 10 July 2009.
Further details in relation to Terry Morgan are provided in the notes to the Notice of AGM.
Following Terrys appointment the board will consist of four independent Non-Executive Directors, a Non-Executive Director deemed non-independent as a result of his prior role as CEO of the Group, the Non-Executive Chairman and four Executive Directors.
This will not result in absolute compliance with Code A.
3.2 of the Combined Code and whilst the Board remains broadly satisfied with the composition and balance following Terrys appointment, it will continue to keep the matter under careful review.
Director appointment, induction and training The Board has a general policy that: all new Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment: that each new Director receives a tailored induction suitable to their role: and, that all new Directors receive a tailored information pack which includes a copy of MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association, latest Annual Report and Accounts, committee terms of reference and copies of recent Board minutes and supporting papers.
Review of Board performance The Board is committed to effective and rigorous review of its performance and that of the committees and individual Directors and accordingly a formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and of each Director is performed annually.
Director performance evaluation for the current year has been carried out using a combination of formal appraisal questionnaires completed by all Board members and through informal meetings and discussions.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Board and used to improve the Boards performance.
Results of the prior year appraisal process identied an overall level of satisfaction with the performance of the Board and that of its committees and Directors.
Notwithstanding this, several further improvements in board operation have been implemented during the reporting year including the restructuring of reporting format and content, the greater use of board briengs by non-Director executive board members, and the rotation of Board meetings around various Group operational locations.
Directors interests and rights Details of the beneficial and non-beneficial interests including share options of each Director and connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company are provided in the Remuneration Report.
None of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with a notice period greater than 12 months.
All Directors have access to management and the operating businesses of MITIE at their request and have secure remote access to Board and other relevant papers held on a dedicated online facility.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains Directors and ofcers liability insurance providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or ofcers.
The 2007 AGM approved various amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company to extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director of the Company.
These changes were made possible by recent amendments to company law.
The amended Memorandum and Articles of Association specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 40 MITIE Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Director conicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of director conicts in accordance with the amendments to the Articles of Association approved by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
Any potential situation or transactional conict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conict is kept under ongoing review.
Board responsibility Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include: setting Group objectives and strategies: approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these: approving material tenders, acquisitions, disposals, and business start-ups: approving the Groups Half-yearly and Annual Report and Accounts: appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company Secretary: and monitoring the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
These matters are set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the Board which was approved by the Board on 19 March 2009 and which is available at www.
Chairman and Chief Executive: division of responsibility There is a clear division between the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive as formally set out in the terms of reference for each of these roles.
These terms of reference have been reviewed as part of the review of the job specication of the Chairman.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the Board.
This includes ensuring that the Non-Executive Directors contribute effectively and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and for the effective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout the year and will be available at the AGM.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of the operation and management of the Group and its business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
The role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Executive Directors are collectively responsible for proposing strategy and for making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising their independent skill and judgement and contributing to the formulation of strategy, policy and decision making.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at MITIEs registered ofce, the head ofce and at the AGM.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
External appointments and commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the Group providing permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to effectively discharge their duties.
The commitments outside the Group of the Executive Directors are detailed in the remuneration report on page 58.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
Board meetings Directors are supplied with an agenda and supporting papers for all Board meetings on a timely basis.
This ensures that each Director is appropriately briefed and able to properly discharge their duties.
Papers submitted regularly for the Boards review include reports on: current trading and performance: corporate development activities: health and safety: and, matters relating to corporate governance.
The Board will also receive, from time to time, detailed presentations from non-Board members on operational matters.
The Board, its committees and its Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, where appropriate, external independent legal advice funded by MITIE.
In addition to scheduled Board and committee meetings during the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors on several occasions without the Executive Directors being present.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 41 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Governance All Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, there were 6 scheduled Board meetings.
Additional unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with administrative matters, predominantly for the approval of the issue of shares.
Dedicated budget review meetings have also been held.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of which they are members is shown in the following table: Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in year 6 3 4 4 1 R J Matthews 6133 I R Stewart 6 2 3 R McGregor-Smith 6 4 2 S C Baxter 6 N R Goodman 6 W Robson 5 D S Jenkins 6344 I J S Macpherson 6344 G J Potts 6 4 4 D C Ord 2 1 4 C McAlpine 2111 1 Roger Matthews stepped down from the Audit Committee and was appointed to the Remuneration and Nomination Committee upon his appointment as Chairman on 31 July 2008 2 Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter attend the Audit Committee meetings on the invitation of the Committee Chairman 3 Ruby McGregor-Smith attends the Remuneration Committee meetings on the invitation of the Committee Chairman 4 David Ord and Cullum McAlpine resigned as Directors on 31 July 2008 Board committees The Board has four formally constituted committees: the Audit Committee: the Executive Committee: the Nomination Committee: and the Remuneration Committee.
The duties and responsibilities of each committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available at www.
Further details in relation to the composition, role and functioning of each committee are set out below.
In addition the Group operates an Executive Board.
It is not a formally constituted committee of the Board, operating solely under the delegated powers of the Chief Executive, but is charged with supporting the Chief Executive in the operational management of the Group.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee members are Ruby McGregor-Smith: Suzanne Baxter: Roger Goodman and Bill Robson.
It functions primarily as an approval and signing committee and meets on an ad hoc basis, as and when required, with powers specifically delegated to it on a case by case basis by the Board in respect of specic matters.
Nomination Committee As at 18 May 2009, the members of the committee are: Roger Matthews committee Chairman : Ishbel Macpherson: David Jenkins: and Ruby McGregor-Smith.
During the year the Nomination Committees members were: David Jenkins and Ishbel Macpherson, both of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors: Cullum McAlpine who was an independent Non-Executive Director prior to his retirement as a Director: David Ord, who was the Chairman prior to his retirement as a Director: and Ruby McGregor-Smith, who is a non-independent Executive Director.
The committee is compliant with the Code in that throughout the reporting period there has been a majority of independent directors if the Chairman is excluded for the purposes of this calculation.
If the Chairman is included, and deemed non-independent, for the purposes of this calculation then the committee was not compliant with Code A.
During the year four meetings of the committee took place.
A key function of the committee is to evaluate the balance and composition of the Board and ensure that new Directors bring the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the role being considered.
During the year the committee oversaw the Board succession planning as described more fully above.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 42 MITIE Group PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Remuneration Committee As at 18 May 2009, the members of the committee are: Ishbel Macpherson committee Chairman : David Jenkins: Roger Matthews: and Graeme Potts.
During the year the Remuneration Committees members were Ishbel Macpherson: David Jenkins and Graeme Potts, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors: Cullum McAlpine who was an independent Non-Executive Director prior to his retirement as a Director: and, Roger Matthews, who was independent prior to 31 July 2008 and upon appointment as Chairman, but who is no longer deemed independent under the Code, following his appointment as Chairman.
The committee held four meetings during the year.
The Board has previously reported that a search has been initiated to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director to join the Board and on 30 March 2009 announced the appointment of Terry Morgan with effect from 1 July 2009.
Upon appointment Terry will serve on both the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and will assume the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from Ishbel Macpherson with effect from 10 July 2009.
The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the individual remuneration packages of Executive Directors.
As a part of this process the committee oversaw the administration of the Group LTIP, ESOS and SAYE schemes as further detailed in the Remuneration Report and the benchmarking and review of Executive Director remuneration.
During the year the committee has been advised by the external remuneration consultant Kepler Associates in relation to Executive Director remuneration through formal benchmarking with market and industry comparators.
Kepler Associates do not have any connection with the Group other than their formal appointment as advisers by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board is responsible for reviewing and setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Further details on Executive and Non-Executive Director remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
Audit Committee Role of the Committee The Audit Committee is generally responsible for: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements and of any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements therein: monitoring and reviewing the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and the effectiveness and implementation of the Group policy on the provision of non-audit services the Non-Audit Services Policy : monitoring and reviewing the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls environment, internal audit function and business risk management structures: making recommendations to the Board on shareholder resolutions for the appointment of, and remuneration for, external auditors.
The terms of reference of the committee are available at www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance and include the requirements of Rule 7.21 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and the Code that the Company has a formally constituted audit committee comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The chairman of the committee will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
Committee composition The committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and is currently chaired by David Jenkins.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised David Jenkins: Ishbel Macpherson: Roger Matthews: and Cullum McAlpine.
Cullum McAlpine ceased to be a member of the committee upon his retirement from the Board on 31 July 2008.
David Jenkins succeeded Cullum McAlpine as Chairman of the committee on 31 July 2008.
Roger Matthews left the committee immediately upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company on 31 July 2008.
All members of the committee are considered as being appropriately experienced to full their duties, whilst David Jenkins and Ishbel Macpherson continue to be deemed, as at the date of this report, by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience through their qualications and their previous appointments.
The committee ordinarily consists of at least three members and requires two members to be present to be quorate.
Between 31 July 2008 the date of retirement of Cullum McAlpine and Roger Matthews ceasing to be a member of the committee upon his appointment as Chairman and 31 March 2009 the committee comprised only two members contrary to Code C. 3.1.
As mentioned above, the Board has previously reported that a search has been initiated to recruit a suitably qualied additional Non-Executive Director to join the Board and serve on the Audit Committee and on 30 March 2009 announced the appointment of Terry Morgan with effect 1 July 2009.
Upon appointment Terry will serve on the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 43 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 43 Governance Meetings of the committee During the year the Audit Committee held 3 meetings see above summary.
The Audit Committee invited the external auditors, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Business Risk to attend relevant parts of the meetings of the committee.
The matters under consideration at these meetings included: generally monitoring the Groups financial reporting process and the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated group accounts: the Half-yearly Financial Report and Annual Report and Accounts: critical accounting policies and judgements: the review of the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and judgements: the re-appointment of the external auditors: the approval of fees for the external auditors: the effectiveness of the external auditors including the appropriateness and skills of the audit team: compliance with the Non-Audit Services Policy by the external auditors and maintenance of auditor independence: the approval of the Group risk assurance framework and the internal audit plan for the year ending 31 March 2009 and for the year ending 31 March 2010: the review of key internal audit reports and findings: and, generally monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control, audit and risk management systems and functions.
The committee also met separately with the external auditors and the Head of Business Risk without the presence of the Executive Directors.
External auditors The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and confirms that the requirements of the Non-Audit Services Policy have been met throughout the year.
The Audit Committee has approved a Non-Audit Services Policy that ensures that the Audit Committee has visibility over the levels of non-audit work performed by the Auditors and requires the consent of the chairman of the Audit Committee for any non-audit spend with the auditors that, on an annual basis cumulatively exceeds 50% of the annual audit fee and or where any item, regardless of amount, is considered significant.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that this policy provides sufficient control over the levels of non-audit spend with the Auditors whilst providing sufficient exibility for the Group Finance Director to approve expenditure on advice below those levels.
This policy generally restricts the external auditors from performing work which will result in them auditing their own work, making management decisions for the Group, creating a conict of interest, nding themselves in the role of advocate for MITIE or creating any potential threat to their independence.
Additionally, the external auditors will only be considered for the provision of non-audit services if they are best suited to perform the work in question.
Deloitte LLP also maintains its own internal controls designed to safeguard its independence.
A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Internal audit The remit of the Audit Committee also includes monitoring the internal audit function as reported above and the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns regarding any matters of financial reporting or other perceived improprieties across the Group.
During the year whistle-blowing activity has been communicated to the committee along with the results of investigations carried out.
These investigations have not identied any risks that result in a material, unmitigated exposure to the Group.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 44 MITIE Group PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Internal control Internal control and risk management The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to support the Groups pursuit of achieving its objectives and strategies and also the identication and management of risks that may impact upon MITIE and upon the environment in which the Group operates.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve these objectives and strategies and it will only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Internal audit function The Group operates an internal audit function which reports directly to the Group Counsel and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the reporting period the size of the internal audit function has been doubled in recognition of the increasing size and complexity of the Group and the increasing emphasis placed upon remediation, rectification and re-audit of issues identied through the internal audit programme.
Internal control systems: culture, responsibility and accountability The Board and senior management are responsible for maintaining and developing a culture of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility throughout the Group.
Essential to this is the recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals who promote the highest standards of integrity, competence, governance and ethical behaviour.
Group policies and procedures support the business by providing an operational internal control framework for the Group, each division and operating business to work within.
This framework is designed to balance the need for Group-wide consistency and control with the autonomy that local management require to develop and manage each operating business successfully.
In order to delegate responsibilities clearly and effectively to the Groups operating businesses, and to ensure compliance with the matters reserved for the Board, a formal delegated authorities matrix is issued to all operating subsidiaries that includes both financial and non-financial authorities and matters relating to strategy, contract approval, recruitment, capital expenditure, banking transactions and specic Group policies.
Each operating subsidiary is headed by a managing or regional director who has authority to manage their business within this framework of delegated authorities and Group policies and procedures outlined above.
To support the business further, the Group has a team of specialist resources with individuals responsible for specic functions including legal, health and safety, IT, insurance, human resources, tax, pensions, purchasing, finance and business risk.
Regular dialogue between these functions and the operating businesses provides additional support and forms a key part of the system of internal control.
Internal control systems: information and communication The Group maintains a number of systems and processes that report relevant information to Group executive management and the Board as necessary.
This includes financial and non-financial information regarding business performance, compliance with policy and procedure, relevant regulations and business critical matters.
At an operational level each division and business holds regular executive board meetings.
To maintain and develop relationships between separate divisions and to address specic matters, regional meetings are also held and are attended by regional representatives of each division.
Senior Group management also regularly attend these meetings.
Internal control systems: risk management The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board also confirms that this process has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and that this process is monitored by the Board in accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks requires the Group and its principal businesses to consider strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls based on a pre and post controls risk evaluation.
The principal risks identied from this process are recorded on the Groups risk register which is maintained by the Groups Business Risk function.
This register is reviewed periodically at least twice per year by the Board.
Monitoring the system of internal control The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Monitoring is carried out throughout the year via the receipt and review of various reports, presentations and discussions with management, as set out above.
specifically, the Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the internal audit function, including approving the internal audit programme, reviewing regular internal audit reports from the business risk function and via meetings with the Head of Business Risk.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over key risks as identied in the Group risk register and is developed by the Head of Business Risk who reports to the General Counsel and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
As necessary, the Audit Committee will have dialogue with the Executive Directors on their control responsibilities and in particular, those relating to specic matters reported by internal or external audit.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 45 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 45 Governance Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control The Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This includes consideration of reports on principal risks, controls and their effectiveness from the heads of each central team function and an independent report from the Head of Business Risk summarising key audit findings.
The Board also holds discussions with senior management and reviews the results of a formal internal controls review and system effectiveness conrmation from each operating subsidiary.
The Board confirms that management has taken steps during the year to improve further the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the Group and to address improvements as they come to managements attention.
These steps are monitored to ensure they are implemented appropriately and that ultimately they are effective.
Auditors Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in ofce as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This conrmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Re-appointment of auditors On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP changed its name to Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and the resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Share capital and shareholder matters Capital structure and powers of shareholders Details of changes to the Companys share capital are given in Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares 2.5p Ordinary shares with no right to any xed income and with each share carrying the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Certain shares that are issued as consideration upon acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in MITIE Model companies have restrictions placed upon them that prevent the transfer of such shares for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Otherwise, there are no specic restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at www.
co. uk investors corporategovernance and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 33 to the Accounts.
Shares held by the MITIE Employee benefit Trust 2007 and the MITIE Employee benefit Trust 2008 abstain from voting.
The 2008 AGM authorised: the Directors to allot under s80 Companies Act 1985 up to 118,691,000 shares representing 37.5% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of AGM during the reporting period, the Directors utilised this authority and the preceding authority to allot 6,194,836 shares: the dis-application under ss94-95 Companies Act 1985 of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to a total of 15,841,116 shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of AGM : and the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 31,682,321 shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of AGM.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 46 MITIE Group PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2008 Notice of AGM available at www.
Shareholders are referred to the 2009 Notice of AGM which accompanies this report and or is available at www.
co. uk investors which contains similar such provisions.
During the year to 31 March 2009 there have been no purchases by the Company of MITIE shares.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases will be determined by the Company and will be dependent on market conditions and other factors.
It is the Companys present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury, but this policy will be reviewed on a case by case basis.
Further details on the proposed renewal of powers for share buyback and the allotment of shares in the Company are provided in the Notice of AGM.
With regards to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Matters Reserved to the Board available at www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance and as set out above.
Under the terms of certain shareholder agreements relating to MITIE Model companies and the articles of association of those companies, certain minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the MITIE Model.
Details of these structures are generally available to the extent incorporated into the articles of association for individual MITIE Model companies from Companies House at www.
There are also a number of other agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business or the Group as a whole.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs solely because of a take-over bid.
Substantial interests in share capital As at 15 May 2009 the Company has been notied of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Ordinaryshares % of of 2.5p each share capital Majedie Asset Management Limited 16,327,802 5.05% Invesco Limited 16,135,005 4.99% Mirabaud Investment Management Limited 15,673,517 4.95% Legal & General Group PLC 12,666,918 3.92% Fidelity International Limited 10,065,118 3.22% Shareholder communications The Board is committed to an ongoing dialogue with institutional and private investors.
The principal method of communication between the Board and shareholders remains news announcements, the Half-yearly Financial Report, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Corporate Responsibility Report and MITIEs website, www.
A full programme of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results announcements which are led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Company believes that such meetings should be at the instigation of shareholders and should not be at the active solicitation of the Company.
During the reporting period, no such requests were received by the Company, although all the Non-Executive Directors were present at the 2008 AGM and entered into direct discussions with shareholders both with, and without, Executive Directors present.
Latest Group information, financial reports, corporate governance and CR matters, Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the MITIE website www.
co. uk which has a specic area dedicated to investor relations.
significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the Groups performance, and as such the Executive Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major shareholder movements.
The Board is updated by the Executive Directors on these matters and receives detailed analyst feedback following the Half-yearly Financial Report and Preliminary Results presentations.
The AGM also allows shareholders to address and discuss any issues surrounding the Group directly with the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 47 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 47 Governance Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the methods in which the Company communicates with its shareholders and wish to move towards an increase in electronic communication.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders approved certain amendments which aligned the Companys Articles of Association with the new provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to electronic shareholder communications.
The Board has been disappointed with the level of uptake by shareholders to date and would wish to encourage all shareholders to register to receive communications from the Company electronically thus realising the environmental and cost benets of reduced printing and carriage of hard copy reports and other communications.
Details on how to register are provided on the inside back cover of this report.
AGM The 2009 AGM will be held at the ofces of UBS, 2 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP at 2.30pm on 10 July 2009.
The Notice of AGM will be available at www.
Operational matters Employee involvement and employee equity-based incentivisation The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity involvement whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
Direct communication with employees continues to have a high priority.
The Group communicates with employees through the use of: Group-wide mailings and updates: employee-focused initiatives: the use of Group-wide and business specic intranet sites: and, provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
Through the use of their own communication processes each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed on Group and individual business developments.
The Group continues to operate its Group-wide MITIE Stars programme to recognise and reward exceptional performance by its people and in 2008 launched MITIEs Got Talent as a Group-wide talent contest to encourage employee engagement and recognition.
The Group CR Report contains further details of these initiatives.
Employees remain actively involved in the Groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings chaired by the Group HR director.
The Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
The Board believes that the Groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the Groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year the Group has continued to operate its Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to incentivise and reward senior members of the MITIE management team and its Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS for certain other employees below Board level.
During the reporting period shareholders approved modications to the Groups SAYE Scheme SAYE to reduce the savings contract period from five years to three years with the aim of increasing employee uptake.
The Board is pleased to report that uptake in the subsequent SAYE award increased against uptake in 2007.
The Board will continue to review and, where appropriate, recommend amendments to equity-incentive schemes, in order to maximise the effectiveness and incentive value of such schemes.
The LTIP and the ESOS are both discretionary schemes and are therefore not open to application by all employees of the Group.
The SAYE, an Inland Revenue approved scheme, is open to all UK employees.
The ESOS, established in 2001, has been approved by Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC and options over shares to an individual limit of 30,000 can be awarded under the approved element of the scheme.
Options have in the past been awarded under this scheme to Executive Directors but, following the introduction of the LTIP, the ESOS has been focused on employees below main Board level.
Under the ESOS, there is a limit on the grant level set at 100% of an individuals base salary and the scheme has, following changes to the scheme approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM, a single performance threshold for vesting of the options average growth in earnings per share over the three-year vesting period must exceed ination measured as RPI plus 4%.
The scheme permits the grant of share appreciation rights and the settlement of outstanding unapproved options with share appreciation rights.
Further details of grants under the three equity-based incentive schemes are provide in Note 33 to the financial statements.
The Group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by taking the risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with MITIE and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell that stake to MITIE predominantly in exchange for MITIE shares, at the option of MITIE.
This incentivisation scheme typically provides for such managers to elect to offer their stake in their business to MITIE between the fifth and tenth years from the date of establishment of the business.
Recipients of shares under this incentivisation scheme are generally restricted from selling the MITIE shares received as consideration for a minimum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has driven MITIEs past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interest between MITIE shareholders and the management and employees of the Group.
It is the Boards current intention to continue to utilise such structures.
qxd:Layout 1 28 5 09 12:19 Page 48 MITIE Group PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and governance report Employee involvement, disability and opportunities The Board remains committed to developing further a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the Groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and to promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
Applications from disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons including those who become disabled whilst employees of the Group should, as far as reasonably possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts and performance guarantees.
In addition, various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and trade debtors arise from its trade.
The use of interest rate swaps and currency swaps are used to manage interest and currency risk when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 22 to the financial statements.
Payment of creditors The Groups policy is to comply with the terms of payment agreed with suppliers, preferably on the Groups standard purchasing terms as notied to suppliers, or otherwise to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
At 31 March 2009, the Group had 34 days purchases outstanding 2008: 40 days.
Fixed values The Board does not believe that there is any material difference between the book value and the current open market value of the Groups interests in land and buildings.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events since the balance sheet date.
Future developments The operating review sets out the Boards view on likely future developments of the Group.
Research and development Given the nature of the Groups activities it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Donations Donations to charity and community projects made during the year amounted to 184,018 2008: 151,154.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, and during the reporting period no political contributions were made 2008: nil.
The total value of community investment as disclosed in more detail in our CR Report 2009 was 603,659 2008: 592,132.
Branch ofces The Group does not operate any registered branch ofces outside of the UK but does have subsidiary companies in Guernsey and Jersey and operates outside of the UK on a client-specic basis.
Further details of the Groups principal subsidiaries are given in Note 36 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board Marie-Claire Haines Company Secretary 18 May 2009
