DLC executive committee and company secretaries Peter Machacek Ladimir Pellizzaro Ron Traill Chief executive officer: Uncoated fine Group technical director Chief executive officer: paper & containerboard Ladimir Pellizzaro graduated in South Africa Division Peter Machacek graduated in business mechanical engineering from the Ron Traill graduated in mechanical administration from the University of Federal University of Paran in Brazil, engineering and management from Vienna in 1976 and began his career going on to specialise in pulp and Dundee College in Scotland in 1980. with Kienzle Datasysteme and Tetra paper technology.
He acquired He began his career as an industrial Pak in Austria.
In 1981 he moved to extensive experience in the pulp and engineer with DRG Packaging Group, the Frantschach Group as sales and paper industry with a number of working in its Scottish paper mill.
He marketing manager of the groups Brazilian companies, including Klabin, went on to hold a succession of posts converting business.
In 1988 he Aracruz and Suzano, in roles ranging within the company, leading ultimately became sales director of Patria Papier from engineering to operations to his appointment as general & Zellstoff, the sales company for the management and project management.
Following DRGs acquisition Frantschach paper mill, and was by Sappi in 1990, he worked for 10 shortly afterwards appointed to the Ladimir joined Mondi in 1990, shortly years in a number of general management board of the mill.
thereafter becoming general manager management roles.
of the then kraft division of Mondi In 2000 he became executive vice South Africa.
In 1994 he was Ron has also held senior operational president of Mondi Packaging Paper, appointed technical director of Mondi positions with Fletcher Challenge and responsible for the Dyns, South Africa and was a key player in with Tullis Russell, the UKs largest Frantschach, Steti and Swiecie paper the team that drove the expansion of independent paper mill.
mills, and subsequently became chief Mondi into Europe.
In 2000, he moved executive officer of Mondis packaging to London taking up the role of He joined Mondi in 2003 as managing paper division, responsible for the technical director of Mondi International director of the Steti pulp and paper mill Groups five newly acquired recycled with worldwide responsibility for in the Czech Republic, also assuming containerboard mills in Austria, projects, operational optimisation and responsibility for the Mondi packaging Germany, Italy, Switzerland and the UK.
technical evaluation of major paper business in Ruz omberok, Peter assumed his current role and acquisitions.
He took a break from Slovakia.
Ron took up the position of joined the management board of the Mondi in 2005, following which he was chief executive officer of Mondis South Europe & International Division following retained by the Group as an adviser Africa Division in January 2008 and the reorganisation of the Groups prior to rejoining Mondi as Group was appointed to the DLC executive operations at the beginning of 2008. technical director in January 2009. committee in June 2008.
Peter is vice-president of the Austrian Federation of Paper Makers.
48 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group The DLC executive committee is made up of chief executive officer David Hathorn chairman, chief financial officer Andrew King, chief executive officer of the Europe & International Division Peter Oswald, and other senior members of management.
Philip Laubscher Carol Hunt Company secretary Mondi plc Company secretary Mondi Limited Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, LLB degrees and is an attorney of the spent 15 years with The BOC Group High Court of South Africa, was inplc, holding various roles in the house counsel with national power company secretariat, the last six years utility Eskom for 15 years before joining as deputy company secretary.
She Mondi in 1999 as head of legal joined Mondi in November 2006 and services.
He was appointed company was formally appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in January secretary of Mondi plc in May 2007.
Philip and Carol work together on the co-ordination of Mondis DLC structure.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 49 Directors report
