Chairmens statement Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Joint chairman Joint chairman in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the achieved a creditable operating and Dear shareholder first quarter of 2009, although this was financial performance in 2009.
The 2009 financial year was challenging, offset by lower average selling prices but Mondis focused strategy and for most of the Groups products Operating and financial rigorous attention to operational performance during the year.
Nonetheless, price efficiency enabled us to emerge from the increases announced early in the Group revenue, at E5.3 billion current economic downturn in good fourth quarter, partly driven by rising a decrease of 17% on 2008, and shape and well-positioned to deliver input costs, have been implemented underlying operating profit, at attractive returns to our shareholders in for certain key grades in our European E294 million declining by 33% on the longer term.
the prior year, exceeded expectations.
The Mondi Group demonstrated its Through these challenging times our The Europe & International Division resilience through the very difficult strategy has guided management and showed particular resilience during the trading conditions that characterised enabled the Group not only to second half of the year, but profitability much of 2009.
The global economic withstand market turbulence, but to turmoil that was evident at the close of in our South Africa Division remained continue to deliver on our long-term under pressure.
Our cost restructuring 2008 persisted through 2009, but with vision.
By focusing on low-cost initiatives across all businesses proved some more positive signs evident in the production, wide-ranging cost fourth quarter.
to be effective, with some E251 million reduction programmes and the rapid of costs having been eliminated by alignment of our businesses to market year-end.
In South Africa, inflationary Volumes in most areas of the business recovered from the lows experienced demands, the Mondi Group has pressures and weak export prices, 12 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Resilient performance in challenging circumstances exacerbated by the robust performance good progress on our sustainability consultation with the South African of the South African rand in the second commitments in the Sustainable Ministry of Land Affairs, which provides a long-term, mutually half up around 9.4% versus the euro Development Report at beneficial and sustainable solution to and 17.0% versus the US dollar www.
com sustainability communities, to government and to compared to the first half, placed and a summary review can be found the Group.
on pages 34 to 43 of this report.
All of our forests have now been assessed for Forest Stewardship Especially pleasing has been the Safety continues to be a significant Council FSC certification, with substantial cash flow generation from item on the agenda at every DLC Board certification of the last outstanding operations, and the ability of the meeting and an intrinsic part of our area in Russia expected in the first Group to continue to invest significant culture and our sustainable half of 2010. amounts of capital in our two major development philosophy.
Although our We have reported significant progress projects, Swiecie in Poland and focus on safety resulted in an improved in reducing and optimising our Syktyvkar in Russia.
These projects workplace safety record for the year, resource usage, in particular water will reinforce our position as a cost with no reportable fatal accidents within and energy.
More than half of our leader in our chosen markets.
the Group 2008: two fatalities, in 2010 energy usage comes from biomass we have regrettably already experienced renewable energy sources.
Importantly, the Group has continued to a fatality in our forestry operations in Operating as we do in emerging reduce its level of debt a commendable South Africa.
The Boards believe that markets where the effects of climate achievement in the current market and this accident, as with all other accidents, change are likely to be exaggerated, has been successful in maintaining the could and should have been prevented we have given critical consideration quantum of committed debt facilities and we take responsibility for ensuring both to our role in respect of climate available to it despite the unfavourable that we learn from each and every change and to the impact of climate banking environment.
safety incident and that we implement change on our Group and our the necessary measures to further communities.
During 2009 we Chief executive David Hathorn reports entrench safe behaviour.
reported a further reduction in CO2 on the Groups operating and financial emissions and participated in the performance and on its strategy in his A number of achievements in 2009 are Carbon Disclosure Projects 2009 review of the year on pages 16 to 21 worthy of special mention: greenhouse gas emission and climate of this report.
Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate change survey.
The positive role LTIFR reduced once more.
This played by sustainably managed Sustainability follows a continued focus on safety forests has been recognised in the by management and our employees Mondi is highly cognisant of the international climate change debate, broader role the Group plays as an and was achieved notwithstanding underlining the point that these the large-scale projects being employer and responsible corporate forests mitigate climate change by undertaken in Poland and Russia.
With so much of our business sequestering carbon from the in emerging markets, our role is clearly The second set of land claims atmosphere and storing it as biomass.
even more important as we strive to involving seven communities in KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa was achieve a balance in terms of the In the midst of these achievements we economic, social and environmental successfully concluded.
We have must reflect on the fact that the impacts of our business.
We report developed a unique model, in close restructuring of operations resulted in Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 13 Directors report Chairmens statement continued job losses across the Group.
While Matters of governance have become Mondi share price LSE p JSE R very necessary to ensure the long-term critical issues for shareholders around 400 50 45 sustainability of the business and job the globe.
We at Mondi are satisfied 350 40 security for those thousands of people that we comply with the regulations 300 35 employed directly and indirectly by applicable to the exchanges and in 250 30 our Group, we understand that job the markets in which we operate.
25 200 20 150 losses have a significant impact on We have put in place the highest 15 100 employees and communities.
We standards of governance and we 10 50 5 strive to be fair and responsible in our continue to review and amend these 0 0 Jan 09 Dec 09 restructuring and are encouraged by as required in light of new and LSE JSE the full support of the 31,000 people proposed governance, legislation and in our employ.
recommendations in South Africa and the UK.
Mondi shareholders 2009 Governance We were pleased to be admitted once The Group Boards, constituted in Africa 40% again to the FTSE4Good UK, accordance with our dual listed UK 35% FTSE4Good Europe and FTSE4Good company DLC structure, have North America 11% Global indices of the London Stock continued to provide counsel and Europe 08% Exchange LSE and the Socially Latin America support to the executive committee.
In & Caribbean 01% Responsible Investment SRI Index of particular we extend our thanks to Sir Other 05% the JSE Limited JSE.
John Parker, who relinquished his role as joint chairman as well as his Delivering to shareholders membership of the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, with effect While our share price came under from 4 August 2009.
This followed his pressure in the early part of the year, in appointment as chairman of Anglo line with the sell-off witnessed in most American plc.
Sir Johns contribution major equity markets, we are pleased to to the Mondi Group has been note the subsequent recovery.
The Mondi significant, both in the period leading Limited shares listed on the JSE closed up to Mondis successful listing in the year 24% higher than the prior year 2007 and during its first two years as close, while the Mondi plc shares listed an independent, publicly listed Group.
on the LSE closed the year around 65% higher than the prior year close.
We welcome John Nicholas as a new non-executive director to the Boards.
Mondi is among the lowest cost John has a strong financial operators in its sector with a balance background and brings a wealth of sheet that remains strong and wellcommercial business experience to funded.
The Group was cash-generative the Group.
In addition, he is a throughout the year and its operations member of the UK Financial Reporting are well positioned to benefit as market Review Panel.
Consequently, 14 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Mondis strategy remains valid: a focus on low-cost production and emerging markets, combined with ingrained cost-consciousness and a decisive response to market circumstances notwithstanding the difficulties registers of Mondi Limited and Mondi Strategy and outlook plc, an equivalent dividend of 28.41150 encountered during 2009 and the The current financial year will, no doubt, significant capital expenditure to develop South African rand cents per share continue to present challenges to the was paid on 15 September 2009 low-cost operations for the future, we Mondi Group.
These will continue to be and, together with a final dividend of have been able to adhere to our longmet with enthusiasm and dedication.
73.54690 South African rand cents term dividend policy.
Mondis strategy remains valid: a focus per share payable on 19 May 2010, on low-cost production and emerging the total dividend amounts to The Boards aim to offer shareholders markets, combined with ingrained 101.95840 South African rand long-term dividend growth within a cost-consciousness and a decisive cents per share.
targeted dividend cover range of two to response to market circumstances.
three times on average over the cycle.
These will continue to serve as our In July 2009, the South African The decision was taken in the prior year guidelines, and provide a platform for Treasury approved the reclassification to pay a reduced full-year dividend in organic growth in our target markets.
of the secondary listing of Mondi plcs light of the uncertain economic outlook ordinary shares on the JSE as The Groups solid foundation, built on and lack of liquidity in the financial domestic assets in the hands of operational efficiency and market markets.
This also served to ensure that South African investors.
This had the leadership, will continue to underpin dividend cover was maintained within effect of all but eliminating the price both operational and financial the targeted range.
Given the Groups differential that had existed between performance.
The measures we have strong balance sheet and healthy the Mondi Limited and Mondi plc taken prior to and during the global operating cash flows, coupled with an shares trading on the JSE.
financial crisis mean that the Group is improving outlook, it is proposed to pay Importantly, the reclassification had better positioned at the end of 2009 a final dividend that reflects an increase the effect of allowing a new group of than it was at the beginning of the year on the prior year final dividend, while potential shareholders access to the to deliver returns to shareholders in the remaining within the Groups targeted Mondi plc shares, and this, we believe, longer term.
While we remain cautious cover range.
has contributed to the shares strong about the macroeconomic outlook and performance in the second half of 2009. the potential impact this will have on Accordingly the boards of Mondi our business in 2010, it is encouraging Limited and Mondi plc have Thanks that both volumes and pricing in most recommended a final dividend of Operating in 31 countries across the of our key markets continue to improve.
7.0 euro cents per share 2008: globe, the people of Mondi have 5.0 euro cents per share, payable on shown resilience and commitment.
19 May 2010 to shareholders on the Their contribution has underpinned register at 23 April 2010.
Together with the Groups resilient performance.
the interim dividend of 2.5 euro cents Management, and in particular the Cyril Ramaphosa per share, paid on 15 September 2009, chief executive and senior leadership, Joint chairman this represents a total dividend for the have been quick to react and year of 9.5 euro cents per share.
In wholehearted in their response to a 2008, the total dividend for the year was rapidly changing and uncertain global 12.7 euro cents per share.
On behalf of the Boards David Williams shareholders on the South African we thank them.
Joint chairman Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 15 Directors report
