The board of directors Joint chairmen Cyril Ramaphosa David Williams Cyril Ramaphosa was appointed joint David Williams, who was appointed to chairman in May 2007 and he is also a the Boards as senior independent nonmember of the DLC nominations executive director in May 2007, committee.
succeeded Sir John Parker as joint chairman on 4 August 2009.
He is also A law graduate from the University of chairman of the DLC nominations South Africa Unisa, he joined the committee and is a member of the DLC Council of Unions of South Africa as a remuneration committee.
He went on to join the National Union of Mineworkers, A chartered accountant, David retired South Africas largest trade union, as finance director of Bunzl plc in serving as general secretary until 1991.
January 2006, having served on the board for 14 years.
He is a nonCyril is currently executive chairman of executive director of Dubai-based DP Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited, World Limited, Tullow Oil plc and which owns Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited and Shanduka Meggitt plc, chairing the audit Packaging Proprietary Limited, committees of all three.
He will and non-executive chairman of relinquish the role of senior independent telecommunications group MTN Group non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey Limited.
He is also a non-executive plc on 31 March 2010.
David is also a director of insurance group SASRIA former non-executive director of the Limited, brewing group SABMiller plc, Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation steelmaker MacSteel Global and financial Company, Dewhirst Group plc and services groups Alexander Forbes Medeva plc.
Limited and Standard Bank Group Limited.
Cyril is past chairman of the Black Economic Empowerment Commission in South Africa.
He was chairman of the Constitutional Assembly which negotiated South Africas first democratic dispensation.
He holds honorary doctorates from a number of institutions, including Unisa and the University of Massachusetts.
44 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Executive directors David Hathorn Andrew King Peter Oswald Chief executive officer Chief financial officer Chief executive officer David Hathorn graduated in commerce Andrew King graduated in commerce Europe & International Division from the University of Natal and qualified from the University of Cape Town and Peter Oswald graduated in law and as a chartered accountant in 1987 at qualified as a chartered accountant in business administration from the Deloitte & Touche.
He joined Anglo 1994 at Deloitte & Touche.
He joined University of Vienna, beginning his American plc in 1989 as a divisional Minorco, the international arm of Anglo career with Deutsche Bank and finance manager, moved to Mondi in American, as a financial analyst in 1995 automotive company KTM.
He joined 1991 and went on to serve as finance and subsequently assumed the Frantschach Group in 1992 as the director and then general manager of responsibility for the groups investment head of internal audit, later becoming Mondi Europe until 2000, when he was management activities.
appointed chief executive officer of the to Minorcos corporate finance Mondi Group.
He chairs the DLC department in 1998, working on a After serving as chief executive of the executive committee and is a member number of group M&A activities before bag and flexibles business from 1995 of the DLC sustainable development being appointed a vice president of to 2001, overseeing its recovery and committee.
Anglo American Corporate Finance in expansion, Peter was appointed chief 1999.
His key assignments included the executive of Mondi Packaging Europe At Anglo American plc, David was a restructuring of the relationship with fide in 2002, leading its subsequent member of the executive committee Beers, the reorganisation of the Mondi integration with Frantschach into the from 2003 and an executive director Europe Group and Mondis acquisition new Mondi packaging division.
from 2005 and served on the boards of of Syktyvkar Paper Enterprises.
a number of companies, including fide At the beginning of 2008 Peter joined Beers, Anglo Platinum and Anglo Coal.
Andrew was appointed Mondis vice the boards of Mondi Limited and He oversaw the demerger of Mondi president of business development in Mondi plc as chief executive officer of and its dual listing in Johannesburg 2002 and corporate development the Groups Europe & International and London in 2007. director in 2004.
He served as chief Division, comprising all the former financial officer of Mondi from June Mondi Packaging and Mondi Business 2005 to May 2006, before being Paper operations outside South Africa.
appointed as Group strategy and business development director.
He was Peter serves as a non-executive heavily involved in the listing process director of Telekom Austria AG and as and establishment of the Groups dual president of respACT-austrian business listed corporate structures.
Andrew council for sustainable development.
was appointed chief financial officer in October 2008.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 45 Directors report The board of directors continued Independent non-executive directors Anne Quinn CBE Colin Matthews Senior independent non-executive Colin Matthews was appointed to the director Mondi Boards in May 2007.
He is Anne Quinn was appointed to the chairman of the DLC sustainable Mondi Boards in May 2007 and as development committee and a member senior independent director in August of the DLC nominations, remuneration 2009.
She chairs the DLC remuneration and audit committees.
committee and is a member of the DLC nominations, audit and sustainable He graduated in engineering from development committees.
Cambridge University and has an MBA from INSEAD.
After a period in the Anne graduated with a bachelor of motor industry in the UK and Japan commerce from Auckland University and a spell in management and has a masters degree in consultancy with Bain & Company, he management science from the joined the US General Electric Massachusetts Institute of Technology Company.
She spent her early career with Airways plc as managing director BA NZ Forest Products Limited and the US Engineering and later became director management consulting company Resource Planning Associates.
She of technical operations, responsible for then joined Standard Oil of Ohio, which engineering, flight crew, IT and was subsequently acquired by BP plc.
Anne went on to work for BP in the US, Belgium, Colombia and the UK Colin was group managing director of and held a number of executive Transco from 2001 to 2002 and then positions, including group vice chief executive officer of Hays plc from president.
She was awarded a CBE for 2002 to 2004, where he led the services to the natural gas industry.
transformation into a pure specialist recruitment and HR services business.
Anne has also been a managing director From 2005 to October 2007, he was of Riverstone Holdings Europe, a private group chief executive of Severn Trent equity investment firm specialising in the renewable and conventional energy and plc, where he oversaw the restructuring power industries.
of the business into a focused water services company.
Colin joined BAA, A non-executive director of Smiths the British airport operator, as chief Group plc, she was a non-executive executive on 1 April 2008. director of The BOC Group plc from 2004 to 2006.
She currently serves on the MIT Presidents Advisory Committee to the Sloan School.
46 Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group Imogen Mkhize John Nicholas Imogen Mkhize was appointed to the John Nicholas was appointed to the Mondi Boards in May 2007.
She is a Mondi Boards in October 2009.
He member of the DLC nominations and chairs the DLC audit committee and is remuneration committees.
a member of the DLC nominations committee.
After graduating in information systems from Rhodes University in 1984, she A fellow of the Chartered Association of completed an MBA at Harvard Certified Accountants, he holds a Business School in 1995.
She spent masters degree in business her early career with Anglo American, administration from Kingston University.
Andersen Consulting and the financial services group Nedcor, before Much of Johns early career was spent becoming managing director of in technology-focused international telecommunications group Lucent manufacturing and service companies Technologies South Africa.
Between involved in analytical instruments, fire 2003 and July 2006, she held the protection and food processing.
He position of chief executive officer of the became group finance director of 18th World Petroleum Congress, an Kidde plc on its demerger from international oil and gas event.
Williams Holdings and was group finance director at Tate & Lyle plc from Imogen is currently chairman of 2006 to 2008.
Richards Bay Coal Terminal, one of the largest export coal terminals in the He is currently a member of the UK world.
She is also a director of energy Financial Reporting Review Panel, group Sasol Limited, engineering group which seeks to ensure that the Murray & Roberts Holdings Limited, provision of financial information by investment management firm Allan Gray public and large private companies Limited and Mobile Telephone Networks complies with relevant reporting Proprietary Limited.
of the South African Financial Markets Advisory Board, the Harvard Business John is a non-executive director of School Global Alumni Board and Ceres Power Holdings plc, Hunting Rhodes University Board of Governors.
PLC and Rotork p. l. c. chairing the audit committees of all three.
In 2001 Imogen was recognised by the World Economic Forum as a Global Leader for Tomorrow.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 47 Directors report
