Mondis products Mondis core business is the manufacture of uncoated fine paper, packaging paper and converted packaging products, as well as speciality products.
Pulp Both hardwood and softwood pulp is produced largely for internal use.
A total of 3.5 million tonnes was produced in 2009, with 0.4 million tonnes sold externally.
Uncoated fine paper UFP Mondi is a leading European and South African producer of UFP, used for a wide range of office and professional printing paper for inkjet and laser printing.
Well-known brands include Color Copy, MAESTRO and IQ, as well as the Russian Snegurochka and South African ROTATRIM brands.
Containerboard A wide-ranging portfolio of corrugated case materials virgin and recycled containerboard is produced for corrugated box applications.
To meet the corrugated industrys increasing demand for excellent lightweight liners and flutings, Mondi has invested in the construction of one of the worlds fastest containerboard machines 1,800 m min in Poland.
Corrugated boxes Mondi is a leading supplier of all forms of corrugated packaging, including conventional boxes and trays of all shapes and sizes, point-of-sale displays, Shelf-Ready Packaging SRP and heavy-duty packaging.
Radio Frequency Identification RFID enabled corrugated cases are an integral part of the Groups portfolio.
Kraft paper Kraft papers within the Advantage range are widely used, from specialist packaging and heavy-duty industrial applications including building and chemicals to consumer packaging including food and pet food.
A wide range of grades is offered, each catering to the specific requirements of different packaging concepts.
Industrial bags Mondi is the worlds largest producer of industrial bags and offers a wide variety, including ultra-strong and air-permeable bags with sophisticated closure techniques.
These products are used to package, among other things, cement, chemicals, seeds, animal feed, flour and milk powder, as well as automotive parts and organic and bio-waste.
Specialities These are high-quality products, such as extrusion coating products, release liners, consumer bags and pouches.
The Groups expertise in extrusion coating, laminating, siliconising and printing enables Mondi to offer customised products for the food, pet food, building, medical and hygiene industries among others.
Sanocoat, an anti-microbial packaging solution for increased shelf-life, is a recent innovation.
Newsprint Mondi is a small producer of newsprint and telephone directory paper, manufactured in South Africa, Russia and the UK.
Annual report and accounts 2009 Mondi Group 9 Directors report
