Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Group dividend paid in respect of the 2008 financial year and a and Company Financial Statements of special dividend of 4.91p per ordinary share.
com Group PLC the Company by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General and its subsidiaries together the Group for the Meeting, this will be paid on 1 April 2010 to shareholders financial year ended 31 December 2009. on the register at the close of business on 5 March 2010.
Principal activities The final dividend, together with the interim and special The Company is a public limited company incorporated dividend paid on 16 October 2009, makes a total in England, registered number 6160943, with its dividend for the year of 13.34p 2008: 3.5p per registered office at Moneysupermarket House, ordinary share.
St Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester, CH5 3UZ.
Major shareholders The principal activity of the Group is the introduction of As at the date of this report, the Company had been business to financial, insurance, travel, home services notified of the following significant holdings of voting and other product providers through its websites, rights in its ordinary shares in accordance with the moneysupermarket.
Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and The principal activity of the Company is that of a Transparency Rules: holding company.
Number of ordinary Percentage of shares voting ordinary share A fuller description of business activities is contained Shareholder rights notified capital notified within the Financial and Business Review on pages Simon Nixon 267,257,021 52.76 14 to 21.
Coatue Management LLC 45,959,122 9.10 BlackRock Inc 33,669,000 6.63 Business review Lloyds Banking Group plc 30,353,502 5.98 The Chairmans Statement on page 8, the Chief FIL Limited 25,452,692 5.01 Executives Report on pages 10 to 13, the Financial and Capital Research & Business Review on pages 14 to 21 and the Principal Management Company 24,480,000 4.93 Risks and Uncertainties on pages 22 and 23 provide a State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 4.14 detailed review of the Groups activities, likely future developments and principal risks and uncertainties.
All Share capital and control the information detailed in those pages is incorporated As at 31 December 2009, the issued share capital of the by reference into this report and is deemed to form part Company comprised a single class of shares referred to of this report.
as ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
As at 31 December 2009, the authorised share capital of the Company was As at the date of this report, there have been no 250,000 comprising 1,154,705,882 ordinary shares of important events affecting the business of the Group 0.02p each and 95,294,118 deferred shares of 0.02p which have occurred since 31 December 2009. each, and the issued share capital was 101,506 comprising 507,532,724 ordinary shares of 0.02p each.
Corporate governance Full details of the share capital of the Company and The Corporate Governance Report, the Audit changes to the share capital during the year are set out Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report in note 15 to the Group Financial Statements on pages and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 67 and 68.
All the information detailed on this page is 48 are incorporated by reference into this report and are incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to form part of this report.
deemed to form part of this report.
Results and dividends At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on The Groups and Companys audited Financial 16 April 2009, shareholders authorised the Directors to Statements for the financial year ended 31 December allot up to 336,230,000 ordinary shares in the capital of 2009 are set out on pages 50 to 77. the Company.
Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General An interim dividend of 1.3p 2008: 1.3p per ordinary Meeting to allot up to 338,010,000 ordinary shares.
share together with a special dividend of 4.93p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 16 October On a show of hands at a general meeting of the 2009.
Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall have one The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.11p vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares 2008: 2.2p per ordinary share, comprising a dividend present in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote, shall of 2.2p per ordinary share equivalent to the final 28 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General shares owned by them as at Listing assuming for have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Except in these purposes that any options held by them over very limited circumstances, the holders of deferred ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
shares are not entitled to attend or vote at a general In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July meeting of the Company.
There are no issued shares in 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary the Company with special rights with regard to control shares owned by them as at Listing less any of the Company.
ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the lock-up deeds as set out The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies above assuming for these purposes that any deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a options held by them over ordinary shares had proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be been exercised at Listing.
passed at the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in Under the rules of the Moneysupermarket.
com Group relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual PLC Share Incentive Plan Plan, eligible employees General Meeting and published on the Companys were provided with the opportunity to receive free website after the meeting.
shares on Listing with a value as at the date of Listing of 3,000, and all employees are entitled to purchase There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted shares in the Company other than: from their pre-tax salary.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited Trustees.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider participants instructions.
If a participant does not trading laws.
submit an instruction to the Trustees, no vote is Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and unawarded or forfeit shares held under the Plan as employees of the Group require the approval of the surplus assets.
As at the date of this report, the Trustees Company to deal in ordinary shares of the Company.
held 0.18% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Pursuant to an underwriting agreement entered into Company.
on 11 July 2007 Underwriting Agreement in connection with the listing of the Company on 31 July The Company is not aware of any agreements between 2007 Listing, each of Simon Nixon and Paul shareholders that may result in restrictions on the Doughty have agreed that, subject to certain transfer of securities and or voting rights.
exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise dispose of, any relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in ongoing relationship between them Relationship excess of the numbers specified below: Agreement.
The Company and Simon Nixon have In the period between 1 August 2008 and 31 July agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon 2009, up to one third of the number of ordinary is entitled to appoint such number including himself shares owned by them as at Listing assuming for one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the these purposes that any options held by them over beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares ordinary shares had been exercised at Listing.
of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as In the period between 1 August 2009 and 31 July long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of 2010, up to two thirds of the number of ordinary the ordinary shares of the Company and three Nonshares owned by them as at Listing, less any Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial ordinary shares previously disposed of in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement as interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares of the set out above assuming for these purposes that Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if any options held by them over ordinary shares had Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares been exercised at Listing.
As at the date of this report, Simon Pursuant to lock-up deeds in favour of the Company, Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors certain of the senior managers of the Group have pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not, without the prior written consent of the Save in respect of Peter Plumbs service agreement Company, directly or indirectly, sell or otherwise details of which are set out on page 45 and provisions dispose of, any ordinary shares in the capital of the of the Companys share schemes which may cause Company in excess of the numbers specified below: options and awards granted to employees under such In the period between 1 August 2008 and 31 July schemes to vest on a takeover, there are no agreements 2009, up to one third of the number of ordinary between the Company and its Directors or employees Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 29 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or The following persons were Directors of the Company employment whether through resignation, purported during the financial year ended 31 December 2009: redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a Gerald Corbett, Simon Nixon, Peter Plumb appointed 1 takeover bid.
January 2009, Paul Doughty, David Osborne appointed 23 February 2009, Graham Donoghue Save in respect of the Companys share schemes, there appointed 23 February 2009, Michael Wemms and are no significant agreements to which the Company is Rob Rowley.
Their biographical details are set out on a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a pages 24 and 25. change of control following a takeover bid.
Subject to law and the Companys Articles of The Companys Articles of Association may only be Association, the Directors may exercise all of the powers amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company and may delegate their power and of shareholders.
At the forthcoming Annual General discretion to committees.
Meeting a special resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the Companys existing The Companys Articles of Association give the Articles of Association as described in the notice Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment to the Board of the Company must Authority to purchase own shares be recommended by the Nomination Committee for At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on approval by the Board.
The Articles of Association also 16 April 2009, shareholders authorised the Company to require Directors to retire and submit themselves for purchase, in the market, up to 50,485,606 of its own re-election at the first Annual General Meeting following ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as their appointment and to stand for re-election at treasury shares.
As at the date of this report, the least every three years following their election or Company had not purchased any of its own ordinary last re-election.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the Association, Simon Nixon, Michael Wemms and Rob forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company Rowley will retire at the forthcoming Annual General to purchase, in the market, up to 50,753,272 of its own Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for ordinary shares either to be cancelled or retained as re-election.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account the Directors remuneration financial resources of the Company, the Companys The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, share price and future funding opportunities.
The has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into Directors needed to run the Group successfully.
Details account the effects on earnings per share and the of the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors interests of shareholders generally.
Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 48.
Research and development Directors interests Innovation is important to the future success of the Details of the Directors and their connected persons Group and to the delivery of long term value to interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set shareholders.
The Groups research and development out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 expenditure is predominantly associated with computer to 48.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or and internet software systems.
Successfully developed loan stock of any Group company.
software is used to develop new products and to The details of transactions with Directors of the improve and extend the functionality and scope of the Company and related party transactions in the financial Groups internet operations.
year ended 31 December 2009 are set out in note 20 to the Group Financial Statements on pages 71 and 72 and Going concern the Corporate Governance Report on pages 33 to 37.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a During the year, no Director had any material interest in reasonable expectation that the Company, and the any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors and officers insurance and indemnities Accordingly, the Financial Statements have been During the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and prepared on a going concern basis.
up to the date of this report, the Company has maintained liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the The Company has granted indemnities to each of its assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent other irregularities.
permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions were in also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, force with effect from 14 December 2009 and remain in Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate force as at the date of this report in relation to certain Governance Report that complies with that law and losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company those regulations.
Secretary may incur in the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and any associated company.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the UK governing the preparation and dissemination the Annual Report and the Financial Statements of financial statements may differ from legislation in The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual other jurisdictions.
Report and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law Statement of Directors responsibilities pursuant to and regulations.
12 Each of the Directors whose names and functions are Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group set out on pages 24 and 25 confirm that, to the best of and Company Financial Statements for each financial their knowledge: year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have with the applicable set of accounting standards, give elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and position and profit or loss of the Company and the applicable law UK Generally Accepted undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a Accounting Practice.
The Business Review includes a fair review of the Under company law the Directors must not approve the development and performance of the business and Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they the position of the Company and the undertakings give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Group and Company and of their profit or loss for that together with a description of the principal risks and period.
In preparing each of the Group and Company uncertainties that they face.
Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Internal control Select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Corporate Governance Report and Audit them consistently.
Committee Report on pages 33 to 39 includes the Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Boards assessment of the Groups system of internal and prudent.
controls and consideration of the guidance issued by For the Group Financial Statements, state whether the Turnbull Committee of the Institute of Chartered they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Accountants of England and Wales.
For the Company Financial Statements, state whether Employees applicable UK Accounting Standards have been The Group places considerable value on the involvement followed, subject to any material departures disclosed of its employees and uses a number of ways to engage and explained in the Company Financial Statements.
with employees on matters that impact them and the Prepare the Financial Statements on the going performance of the Group.
These include formal half concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume yearly business performance updates by members of that the Group and the Company will continue in the executive management team for all employees, business.
regular update briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate access to the latest Group information as well as Group accounting records that are sufficient to show and policies, and the circulation to employees of results explain the Companys transactions and disclose with announcements and other corporate announcements.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of This also helps to achieve a common awareness the Company and enable them to ensure that its amongst employees of the financial and economic Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act factors affecting the performance of the Group.
They have general responsibility for taking such Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009 31 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Creditor payment policy The Group has established an employee forum through It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its which nominated representatives ensure that business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in employees views are taken into account regarding accordance with these terms provided the supplier issues that are likely to affect them.
A robust employee meets its obligations.
The average number of trade engagement survey process is also in place to ensure creditor days outstanding for the Group at 31 December that employees are given a voice in the organisation 2009 was 58.4 2008: 49.5 days.
The Company is a and that the Group can take action based on holding company and therefore had no trade creditors employee feedback.
All employees are able to participate in the Disclosure of information to auditors Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Share Incentive Plan The Directors who held office at the date of this report which gives employees the opportunity to purchase confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted relevant audit information of which the Companys from their pre-tax salary on a monthly basis.
This helps auditors are unaware: and each such Director has taken to encourage employee interest in the performance of all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to the Group.
make himself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Equal opportunities of that information.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination Auditors and applies fair and equitable employment policies KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to which seek to promote entry into and progression within accept reappointment as auditors of the Company.
Appointments are determined solely by resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in application of job criteria, personal ability, behaviour the notice of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and competency.
and will be proposed to shareholders at that meeting.
Disabled persons Annual General Meeting Disabled persons have equal opportunities when The forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the applying for vacancies, with due regard to their skills Company will be held at fide Vere Carden Park Hotel, and abilities.
Procedures ensure that disabled employees near Chester, Cheshire, CH3 9DQ on Wednesday are fairly treated in respect of training and career 31 March 2010 at 10.30am.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is The notice convening the forthcoming Annual General supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to Meeting of the Company, with details of the business to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
be transacted at the meeting and explanatory notes, is set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are shareholders at the same time as this report.
deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
By order of the Board Borrowings The Group did not have any borrowings during the financial year ended 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Darren Drabble Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so Company Secretary as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial 23 February 2010 markets on the Groups profitability and cash flow.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are set out in note 16 to the Group Financial Statements on page 68.
Political and charitable donations During the financial year ended 31 December 2009, the Group did not make any political donations 2008: nil and made charitable donations of 33,379 2008: 24,482.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2009
