50 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the audited financial Land included in investment properties relates to forestry properties statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. which the Group maintains but does not use in any of its existing operations.
The land is held for long-term real estate development and recreational potential and is held in the financial statements at cost.
The fair value of such land is disclosed in Note 15 to the financial statements.
Principal group activities The principal activities of the Group are copper mining including exploration and development, the transportation of freight by rail and road and Results and dividends the distribution of water.
These activities are mainly based in Chile.
The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding company.
Group The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from US$2,609.5 million operations are carried out through subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
The principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that make up The Board has recommended a final dividend of US 20.0 cents 2008 the Group are set out in Notes 16 to 18 to the financial statements.
US 53.6 cents per ordinary share, comprising an ordinary dividend of One subsidiary, the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, has a branch in US 6.0 cents 2008 US 5.6 cents and a special dividend of US 14.0 Chile known as the FCAB which provides rail freight services.
An ordinary interim dividend of US 3.4 cents was paid on 8 October 2009 2008 ordinary dividend US 3.4 cents, 2008 special dividend US 3.0 cents.
This gives total dividends per share Business review proposed in relation to 2009 of US 23.4 cents 2008 US 60.0 cents, The Company is required by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to including the special dividend.
The total cost of dividends to ordinary provide a business review in this Report.
The requirements of the business shareholders including special dividends proposed in relation to 2009 review are fulfilled in the disclosures contained within the Chairmans will be US$230.7 million, compared with US$591.5 million in 2008.
Statement on page 3 to 5, the Marketplace section on pages 9 to 11, Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% the Business Review including information on expected future developments per annum.
The preference shares are classified within borrowings, and on pages 16 to 41, the Financial Review on pages 42 to 49 and the preference dividends are included within finance costs.
The total cost of Corporate Governance Report on pages 54 to 58.
A summary of the key dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as an expense in performance indicators considered most relevant to the Group is on pages the income statement was US$0.2 million 2008 US$0.2 million.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is on pages 14 and 15.
Information on environmental, employee and Further information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial Review social and community matters is included within the Corporate Sustainability on pages 45 and 46, and in Note 12 to the financial statements.
Information on significant contractual and other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group is included within this Directors Report on pages 50 and 53.
A description of the Directors financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, together The Directors who served during the year are set out on page 121.
Mr. JW with the principal risks to which the Group is exposed, is contained in the Ambrus resigned as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 14 October Financial Review on pages 46 and 47 and in Note 25 c to the financial 2009.
No Director has a service contract with the Company which cannot statements.
Significant events since the balance sheet date requiring be terminated within 12 months.
disclosure are set out in Note 39 to the financial statements.
All the above matters are incorporated into this report by reference.
Biographical details of those Directors seeking re-election are set out below.
The reasons why the Board considers that these Directors should be re-elected are set out in the Corporate Governance statement on pages 54 to 58 and in particular in the sections headed Performance Evaluation and Re-election.
Value of land Land included within property, plant and equipment in the financial Mr. CH Bailey was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1987 and is the statements is mainly held at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the value Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Mr. Bailey is a Chartered of such land and mineral rights, since these principally depend on product Accountant, and a director of General Oriental Investment Limited and RIT prices over the long-term and will vary with market conditions.
Mr. Bailey will be aged 76 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 51 Mr. WM Hayes was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
He is a Mr. RF Jara was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2003.
He is a lawyer director of Royal Gold Inc.
He was previously a senior executive with Placer and a director of Empresa Nacional del Petrleo.
He is deputy chairman of Dome Inc. from 1988 to 2006.
Mr. Hayes is a former president of the the Sociedad Nacional fide Minera Sonami, an organisation which represents Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the largest international a number of mining companies in Chile.
He is chairman of the Fundacin mining companies operating in Chile.
He holds a M. A. degree in International Minera Los Pelambres and a director of Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. and Management from the American Graduate School of International Fundacin Pascual Baburizza, all of which are charitable foundations in Chile.
Mr. Jara will be aged 57 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Mr. GS Menndez was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
He holds a degree in business administration from the Universidad fide Chile Directors interests and is a public accountant.
He is a director of Quienco S. A. Banco fide Chile, The interests of the persons including the interests of their families who Telfonica del Sur S. A. and is chairman of the board of directors of Banco were Directors at the end of the year, in the preference and ordinary share Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
He is also the capital of the Company are shown on page 60.
Vicechairman of Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. and Fundacin Pascual Baburizza, both of which are charitable foundations in Chile.
Directors indemnities and insurance Mr. Menndez is aged 61.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent Mr. fide Yarur was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2004.
Mr. Yarur permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors are granted an is a director of several Chilean companies including Banco fide Crdito e indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result Inversiones S. A. Sociedad Qumica y Minera fide Chile S. A. and Invertec of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may or Pesquera Mar fide Chilo.
degree in Finance from the may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers London School of Economics and completed the Advanced Management liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy has been Program at Harvard Business School.
He is a qualified accountant, and a renewed for the next financial year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor former Chairman of the Chilean Securities and Exchange Commission.
the insurance provides cover in the event that the Director is proven to have Mr. D E Yarur is aged 53. acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Biographical details of the other Directors are given below: Conflicts of interest Mr. J-P Luksic is Executive Chairman.
He was appointed a Director in 1990 and Deputy Chairman in 2000.
degree in management and The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation science from the London School of Economics.
He was also Chief Executive where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or Officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. until his appointment as Chairman of the possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
He is a non-executive director of Quienco S. A. and Madeco undertaken a process to identify, and, where appropriate, authorise and S. A.
He is vice-chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body manage potential and actual conflicts.
The Directors of the Company have representing the largest international mining companies operating in Chile.
identified all interests which may constitute conflicts, including for example, Mr. J-P Luksic will be aged 46 at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has considered the potential and actual conflict situations of each of the Directors and decided in relation Mr. GA Luksic was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Mr. Luksic is to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, that need to be a director of Nexans and Banco fide Chile and chairman of Quienco S. A. taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute Compaa Cerveceras Unidas S. A. Vina San Pedro S. A. and Madeco S. A. for managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, Mr. GA Luksic is aged 54. if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conflicts of interest is an Mr. JG Claro was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2005.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any currently chairman of Embotelladora Andina S. A.
He is a director of several material changes in those positions or situations that have already been other companies in Chile, including Entel Chile S. A. Empresas CMPC S. A. considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new positions Red Televisiva Chilevison S. A. and Empresas Lafarge Chile S. A.
He is also a or situations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations member of the governing boards of Universidad Adolfo Ibez and Centro fide as they arise, the Board considers the conflict position of all Directors Estudios Pblicos, a non-profit academic foundation in Chile.
He is a former formally each year.
chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean Society of Industrialists, the Confederacin fide la Produccin y del Comercio Confederation of Chilean Business and the Consejo Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Chile-China.
52 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Directors Report continued the transport division has long-term contracts with a number of customers, Significant relationships which typically govern volumes and pricing structures: The Group has a number of significant contractual or other arrangements which are essential to its operations and projects: the Group has shareholder agreements in place governing its relationship with its partners at its operations and development and exploration the Group holds a number of mining and exploration rights in Chile and projects.
The Group also has a number of earn-in agreements in respect other countries in which it has exploration or development activities, of exploration and development projects: and normally granted by the relevant national government: the Group has a number of borrowing facilities in place to provide financing a significant proportion of the Groups sales of copper concentrate and for it its operations and projects.
For example: other payable elements and molybdenum concentrate are made under long-term framework agreements with a number of customers.
These during 2009 Minera Esperanza signed a 12-year US$1.05 billion framework contracts will typically set out the minimum annual volumes to project financing facility with a consortium of senior lenders including be supplied, with the tolling charges determined annually and the pricing governmental agencies and commercial banks.
Antofagasta plc, as a of contained material to be in accordance with market prices.
A significant sponsor to the facility, has provided certain guarantees for the financing proportion of the Groups copper cathode sales are made under annual until the Esperanza project has satisfied certain specified completion contracts with a number of customers.
These contracts will typically tests, at which point the financing will become non-recourse to specify the volumes to be supplied, with the pricing to be in accordance Antofagasta plc: and with market prices.
Further details of such arrangements are given in in December 2009 and January 2010 Minera Los Pelambres entered Note 25 d to the financial statements: into new corporate loan facilities totalling US$750 million for a period of there are collective labour agreements with each of the labour unions at up to seven years provided by a group of commercial banks and export the Groups mining operations.
These agreements are typically of between credit agencies.
three and four years duration.
Several of these labour unions are affiliated with the Federacin Minera fide Chile: the Group has contracts with a number of suppliers to sub-contract certain Capital structure services at each of its mine sites, including vehicle and equipment Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including details maintenance and other logistical services.
In addition, the Group has a of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown in number of medium and long-term contracts for the supply of key inputs Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary such as electricity, sulphuric acid, oil and explosives with a number of shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries one suppliers: vote at any general meeting of the Company.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements.
The preference the Group has a number of engineering, construction and supply contracts shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend in respect of the development of the Esperanza project, including an of 5% per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any Engineering, Procurement and Construction Management EPCM contract general meeting of the Company.
The nominal value of the issued ordinary with Aker Solutions: share capital is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share the contract for the feasibility study at the Reko Diq project, which has capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference share capital is 3.9% been assigned to SNC Lavalin: of the total sterling nominal value of all issued share capital.
foreign investment agreements with the Chilean government known as There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on their voting DL 600 agreements are in place in respect of Los Pelambres and rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the Companys Articles of Esperanza.
These agreements provide a stable legal, and in some cases Association and other provisions of applicable law and regulation including, tax, framework for a specified period of time, ensuring non-discriminatory in particular, following a failure to provide the Company with information and non-discretionary treatment for foreign investors: about interests in shares as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys in 2003 the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile, supplying rights.
Details of significant holdings in the Companys shares are set out in domestic and industrial users.
The domestic tariffs are controlled by the Substantial Shareholdings section below.
Further details are given in Note 35 to the financial statements: Overview Business Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 53 The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of its own Auditors ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
With In the case of each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is of this Annual Report: governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code 2006, the so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may Companys auditors are unaware: and be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant agreements in place which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place between the to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Company and its Directors or employees which provide for compensation that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
for loss of office resulting from a change of control of the Company.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
This statement is made and should be interpreted in accordance with Donations the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group made charitable donations of US$2.2 million during the year ended A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be 31 December 2009 2008 US$11.3 million.
This includes US$32,000 proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2008 US$0.1 million of charitable donations in the United Kingdom, principally related to educational studies with a focus on Chile.
The Group made political donations of US$2.2 million during the year ended 31 December Substantial shareholdings 2009, in relation to Chilean presidential and parliamentary elections 2008 As at the date of this report, the following significant holdings of voting rights US$1.0 million in relation to Chilean municipal elections.
These donations in the share capital of the Company have been disclosed to the Company were made in accordance with the Chilean legislation which governs the under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: financing of political parties and candidates in order to facilitate the democratic Ordinary Share Preference Share Total Share process of the country.
The donations were made via the Chilean Electoral Table of substantial Capital Capital Capital Management Body, which transfers funds to political parties and candidates.
shareholdings % % % Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 Supplier payment policy and creditor days The Company acts as a holding company and does not trade in the United Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both controlled Kingdom or elsewhere.
Creditor days for the Group have been calculated by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family are at 40 days 2008 39 days.
Each operating company is responsible for interested.
As explained on page 102, Metalinvest Establishment is the agreeing terms of payment with each of their suppliers.
It is Group policy immediate parent company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with agreed terms.
is the ultimate parent company.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of the Company.
Environment Annual General Meeting The Group seeks to ensure that its operations and products cause minimal The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held from 10.30 a. m. on harm to the environment.
Care is taken to limit discharges of environmentally 9 June 2010 at Church House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, harmful substances and to dispose of waste material in a safe manner.
The Notice of the Meeting, together with an explanation Contingency arrangements and plans exist to reduce the risk and limit the of the business to be dealt with at the Meeting, is included in a separate effect of any accidental spillage.
The Groups policy is that all its operations document sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
should comply fully with or exceed applicable Chilean regulations.
Further information regarding the Groups environmental performance and activities By Order of the Board is given in the Corporate Sustainability report on pages 32 to 41.
For and on behalf of Petershill Secretaries Limited Company Secretary 8 March 2010
