64 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Tim Stevenson OBE Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Martin Flower Andrew Given Simon Heale Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Executive Committee Don Klas Andrew Hosty Tim Hayter CEO Carbon CEO Technical Ceramics CEO Thermal Ceramics Paul Boulton Amanda Wooding Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Company Secretary Director of Human Resources Member of the Nomination Committee.
65 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Board of Directors Tim Stevenson OBE Mark Robertshaw Kevin Dangerfield Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Tim was appointed as Chairman of Morgan Mark was appointed as Chief Executive Kevin was appointed as Chief Financial Crucible in December 2006.
He is also Officer in August 2006.
Prior to this Officer in August 2006, having joined Chairman of Travis Perkins plc, a position he was Chief Operating Officer from Morgan Crucible in July 2000 as Deputy that he has held since November 2001.
February 2006 and Chief Financial Officer Group Financial Controller before being He was a non-executive Director of Tribal from October 2004.
Before joining Morgan promoted to Group Financial Controller.
Group plc from 2004 to 2008 and was Crucible he was Chief Financial Officer of Before joining Morgan Crucible Kevin latterly the Senior Independent Director.
Gartmore Investment Management Plc worked for London International Group plc From 1975 to 2000, Tim held a variety of from 2000 to 2004.
Mark is a non-executive and Virgin Retail Europe Limited.
He senior management positions at Burmah Director of Rathbones Brothers plc.
He qualified as a chartered accountant Castrol plc, including Chief Executive from previously worked for the NatWest Group with .
He is a qualified barrister and also spent nine years as a management and is Lord Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
Martin Flower Andrew Given Simon Heale Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Martin was appointed as a non-executive Andrew was appointed as a non-executive Simon was appointed as a non-executive Director in December 2004 and Senior Director in December 2007 and is the Director in February 2005 and is the Chairman Independent Director in April 2008.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is also also Chairman of Croda International Plc He is the senior non-executive Director Chairman of Panmure Gordon and Co plc and and is a non-executive Director of Low & and Chair of the Audit Committee at is a non-executive Director of Kazakhmys plc, Bonar PLC.
He was previously Chairman VT Group plc and was previously the Senior PZ Cussons plc and Marex Group Limited.
He of Autogrill Holdings UK plc and a Independent Director and Chair of the was Chief Executive of China Now from 2007 non-executive Director of Autogrill Audit Committee of Spectris plc.
He was to 2008 and was Chief Executive of the Group Inc. Martin held a variety of senior also formerly a non-executive Director and London Metal Exchange from 2001 to 2006. management positions with Coats plc Chair of the Audit Committee of Spirent Simon qualified as an accountant with Price from 1968 to 2004 and was Group Chief Communications plc.
He was previously Waterhouse and has had extensive experience Executive of that Group and Chairman Deputy Chief Executive of Logica CMG plc in the Far East, having held senior positions of the Board from 2001 to 2004. and held senior management positions in with the Swire Group in Japan and Hong Plessey and Nortel Networks.
Kong and with Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong.
Executive Committee Mark Robertshaw Chief Executive Officer Kevin Dangerfield Chief Financial Officer Don Klas CEO Carbon Andrew Hosty CEO Technical Ceramics Tim Hayter CEO Thermal Ceramics Paul Boulton Company Secretary Amanda Wooding Director of Human Resources Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
