06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements At the leading edge of aerospace... 07 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Enhancing aerospace production processes With the rapid development of increasingly complex aerospace technology, our customers are demanding more from the materials they use.
In Morgan Crucible they have a partner who can help them respond to the pace of change.
Morgan Crucible is helping to make aerospace production Innovative materials for the processes more efficient and safer.
For example Thermal Ceramics aerospace industry is working with a leading UK investment casting company to develop single use bio-soluble mould wrap insulation for casting the turbine blades for many civilian and military aircraft.
This is TM based on our Superwool 607HT and is critical to ensure that the nickel-based super-alloy blades develop the right crystal structures as they are gradually cooled from 1,600C to room temperature.
Long life and high-altitude performance Advanced materials technology from Morgan Crucible is used throughout many modern aircraft, including in guidance and satellite positioning systems, ignition systems, fire protection and suppression, instrument displays and engine monitoring.
For example, the Technical Ceramics Divisions seals, thermocouples and feedthroughs are ideal for aerospace applications due to their ability to withstand the high temperatures, vibration and mechanical shock experienced in aircraft Through the Carbon Divisions advanced engines and other high-stress locations.
engineering, an innovative carbon material has been developed to transfer electrical current between stationary wires and moving parts in low-humidity environments at high altitude and in space.
Used to transfer the high current loads required by starter generators on fixed and rotary wing aircraft, the material offers longer life with no compromise on performance, thereby helping to reduce maintenance requirements and associated operating costs.
08 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... providing  components.
Aerospace: Morgan Crucibles advanced materials technology has provided precisionengineered materials, components and assemblies to meet the exacting needs and demanding applications of the aerospace industry for more than 50 years.
Measuring aircraft fuel Reverse thruster insulation Aircraft instrumentation consumption TM Technical Ceramics piezoceramic materials Thermal Ceramics provides flexible Min-K Technical Ceramics piezoelectric and are used in ultrasonic fuel level sensors to insulation which protects the reverse dielectric ceramic materials are used in provide highly accurate readings regardless thrusters from hot exhaust gases.
The the accelerometers and gyroscopes which of the orientation of the aircraft.
Each thrusters help the aeroplane decelerate once measure the acceleration, vibration and Boeing 777 has over 50 fuel level sensors.
it has touched down, helping cut landing pitch of the aircraft.
distances and reducing wear on the brakes and other components.
09 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... providing  components.
Quieter and more efficient High-temperature insulation Improving engine efficiency engines for flight data recorders Technical Ceramics uses its proprietary Thermal Ceramics provides the moulded The Carbon Divisions materials are TM materials and injection moulding processes Min-K high-temperature thermal invaluable in the seals which protect the to make the ceramic cores which enable protection which helps safeguard the main shaft bearings and the lubrication turbine blades to be cast with an intricate data recorders memory boards in the system from the hot combustion gases network of cooling channels.
These cooling event of a post-accident fire.
in the high-speed, high-temperature channels allow aircraft engines to run at environment of modern aircraft engines.
higher temperatures, which makes them quieter and more efficient.
