35 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators its budget for the year and against historic As Morgan Crucibles businesses grow To support the Groups strategy and to performance.
At a business level, a range and evolve we will review and update the monitor performance, the Board of of further benchmarks and other KPIs are list of KPIs selected to ensure they remain Directors and the Executive Committee use a number of financial and non-financial also used as part of the Divisional planning important to the success of the Group.
These and performance review processes.
In order Financial and non-financial performance KPIs are selected as being important to to measure the underlying performance of is reviewed in more detail in the Divisional, the success of the Group in delivering its the business, management further analyse financial and corporate responsibility strategic objectives.
Progress is assessed the headline KPIs to exclude the impact sections of this Business review.
by comparison with the Groups strategy, of acquisitions and foreign exchange.
Performance KPI 2009 2008 Relevant strategic objective Financial KPIs Revenue growth 12.9% 20.5% Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets Underlying profit decline growth 21.6 % 24.5% Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets To be high value-added to our customers To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efficiency Underlying profit margin 8.2% 11.8% Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Focus on higher growth markets To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efficiency Free cash flow before one-off costs and dividends 85.9m 34.7m Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Underlying earnings per share 13.2p 23.4p Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Dividend per share 7.0p 7.0p Creating consistent long-term value for shareholders Non-financial KPIs Year-on-year pricing change 2.0% 3.5% To be high value-added to our customers Total employment costs as % of sales 28.6% 31.2% To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efficiency Employee turnover 16.7% 14.2% To find, keep and develop the right people Training hours per employee 12.4 14.9 To find, keep and develop the right people Lost time accident frequency 0.56 0.69 To have a culture of operational excellence and per 100,000 hours worked cost efficiency To find, keep and develop the right people Tonnes CO per m revenue 400 464 To have a culture of operational excellence and 2 cost efficiency Tonnes waste per m revenue 65 73 To have a culture of operational excellence and cost efficiency Defined as operating profit before amortisation of intangible assets.
Defined as basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude amortisation.
See note 9 on pages 109 and 110 for definition of basic earnings per share.
Non-financial KPIs are at constant currency.
