12 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Performance in power generation and renewable energy...
Thermal solutions in power generation New and advancing technology is making electricity production and transmission more efficient and, in the case of renewables, increasingly cost efficient.
Customised technology for wind power Rising fuel costs and the escalating demand for electricity is increasing the focus on technology to enhance efficiency.
Thermal Ceramics has developed advanced insulation solutions to help TM reduce heat losses in power generation using its Superwool low-bio-persistence, high-temperature insulating fibre and its insulating fire bricks and monolithics.
The Division plays a key role in helping leading electricity generators around the world to reduce the amount of energy consumed per unit of electricity generated.
Wind turbines are often located in Enabling reliable power hostile environments around the world and in many cases this makes maintenance generation a difficult and costly task.
The Carbon Division is leveraging its advanced materials capabilities to tailor its portfolio of wind power technologies according to climate.
Using customised materials helps to increase maintenance intervals, making wind power an environmentally friendly, more economic alternative to standard electricity generation processes.
Whether electricity is generated from gas, coal, oil, wind, water or nuclear energy, carbon materials are used to transfer current between moving and stationary points.
The indispensable nature of our materials technology means that most power stations worldwide depend on products from the Carbon Division to transfer electrical current safely and effectively from their generators to the distribution grid.
13 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements 14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... leading to more sustainable power generation.
Power generation: Morgan Crucibles advanced materials technologies are extensively used across the power generation sector.
Our products are key to enhancing the sustainability of traditional generation and to enabling electricity to be produced from new and renewable sources.
Boosting efficiency in power Photovoltaic cells Enhancing photovoltaic cell generation towards grid parity performance TM Thermal Ceramics Superwool insulating The Technical Ceramics Division is The Carbon Division is a world leader fibre offers high-temperature resistance leveraging the outstanding mechanical in advanced carbon graphite-based and low bio-persistence.
It is seen as properties and special surface quality of solutions for the solar industry.
These are the preferred solution for duct and boiler its fused silica roller technology to help highly engineered from hybrid materials insulation in heat recovery steam generator manufacturers of thin-film photovoltaic to provide polysilicon and crystalline systems which can help boost power station cells to enhance efficiency and cut costs, silicon manufacturers with the benefits efficiency by 35%.
bringing grid parity for renewable power of energy efficient production and ever closer.
15 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Reliability in power transmission Power tower Harvesting the wind solar thermal electricity reliable wind power generation The Technical Ceramics Divisions ceramic Concentrated solar power focuses vast The Carbon Division supplies slip ring capacitors are used in the systems which amounts of solar energy to harvest transmitters and rotating current transfer remotely indicate when an electrical heat energy from the sun to generate systems, three-phase generator slip rings transmission line fails.
Thermal Ceramics supplies and environment-specific brush-holders capacitors are used all over the world multiple high-performance insulation for high current transmission in the harsh in onerous service conditions to ensure products to protect the tower and environments experienced by wind farms electrical integrity and long service life.
preserve the stored heat energy.
