62 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Key resources and contractual relationships None of the Groups customers or suppliers The Group benefits from technological Morgan Crucible has built up significant are individually essential to the business of know-how and other forms of intellectual resources and benefits from contractual the Group as a whole.
Notwithstanding property, some of which is covered by and other relationships with multiple stakeholders, including customers and this, the Group devotes significant resources patents.
Collectively this intellectual suppliers, employees and joint venture to ensure these relationships continue to property supports the development and partners.
These have been built up operate satisfactorily.
manufacture of new products and services over many years to support the Groups to meet customer needs, but no one single Employees competitive positioning in the key markets patent is considered essential to the Morgan Crucibles most important which the Group serves.
business of the Group as a whole.
resource is its people and we employ a highly skilled and qualified workforce.
One Each of the Groups Divisions has a As is described below, no one contractual of our strategic priorities is finding, keeping Technical Director, with research and or other relationship is considered essential and developing the right people.
Many development capabilities variously located to the business of the Group as a whole.
employees stay with the Company for their at Divisional centres of excellence and Further information on the Groups whole careers as is highlighted on page 55. diffused through the business in the form stakeholder relationships is included We place great emphasis on recruitment of applications engineering.
Further details elsewhere in this Business review, including and training and our policies and are included in the review of operations for in the Corporate responsibility section on performance in these areas are set out each Division on pages 36 to 47. pages 48 to 55.
As referred to in the on pages 54 and 55.
Directors report on page 68, a number Manufacturing capabilities of commercial and contractual agreements Over many years Morgan Crucible has Succession plans are in place covering key include change of control provisions which invested heavily in manufacturing capacity management and technical roles and as come into effect in the event of a change and technology to develop its capability such no individual employee is considered in ownership of the Company following a to serve its chosen markets worldwide.
In essential to the business of the Group as takeover.
recent years the Group has developed and a whole.
extended its manufacturing presence and In accordance with its vision, aim and The Directors contracts are referred to on capabilities in China, India and Latin America strategic priorities, the Group continues page 82 and are available for inspection to meet customer needs in both local and to invest in the areas discussed below to prior to the Annual General Meeting and global markets.
This investment supports maintain its leading market positions.
at the Companys registered office.
our strategic priority of having a culture of Commercial relationships, market operational excellence and cost efficiency.
Research and development, patents position and reputation and intellectual property Joint venture partners Morgan Crucible is generally ranked number The Groups vision is to be one of the In a number of territories around the world, one or two in its chosen market segments.
worlds very best advanced materials the Group has established joint ventures with The Group is a world leader in advanced companies, supported by the strategic local partners.
Many of these joint ventures ceramic and composite materials.
The priority of offering high added value to have been in operation for many years: Company was founded in 1856 and has our customers.
The Groups Divisions use however, no individual joint venture a worldwide reputation.
their extensive knowledge base, particularly agreement is considered to be essential The Groups businesses provide products in the areas of advanced ceramic and to the business of the Group as a whole.
and services to other companies and we composite materials, to develop new have developed close working relationships products and services to meet customer Banking and other financial with many of our customers and suppliers needs and to differentiate themselves in relationships and work in collaboration with them to the markets they serve.
Details of significant banking and other develop new products.
relationships are referred to on page 68 in the Directors report.
However, no one banking relationship is considered to be essential to the performance and value of the Company.
