16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Technical expertise for medical applications... 17 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Medical fire protection With the growing pace of scientific discovery, developments in health and wellbeing are increasingly technology-led.
Morgan Crucible is leveraging its advanced materials and manufacturing technologies to help deliver innovations in healthcare.
The complexity of modern hospitals necessitates specialist fire protection solutions.
These help contain a fire to the room of origin and protect people, equipment and the building.
Manufacturing and materials Thermal Ceramics fire protection products were used in the technology combined 2 construction of the new 835,000ft Columbia St Marys Hospital, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
More precise and predictable ultrasound transducers The Technical Ceramics Division combines world-leading ceramic injection moulding capabilities, ISO 13485-certified manufacturing facilities and advanced materials technology to offer medical innovators and practitioners the biocompatibility, repeatability and reliability required for human body implants and medical applications.
For example, the Division has achieved ISO 13356:2008 Technical Ceramics piezoelectric materials Implants for surgery using non-metallic produce a voltage proportional to applied materials compliance for its Y-ZTP Zirconia mechanical pressure and, conversely, if material used in the manufacture of dental a voltage is applied they change shape.
Technical Ceramics uses these advanced materials to dramatically improve the performance of ultrasound transducers in medical applications, including sensors for catheters, blood pressure, vascular flow and medical imaging.
18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... helping to improve quality of life.
Medical: Advanced materials and manufacturing techniques developed by Morgan Crucible serve critical functions in medical diagnosis and therapeutic processes.
Precise imaging replacing metals Blood handling Hip joints helping restore with advanced composites quality of life By replacing metal x-ray treatment couch Multiple products from the Technical The Technical Ceramics Division has TM components with advanced composites, Ceramics Division are used in critical blood developed Vitox AMC, an alumina matrix NP Aerospace helps ensure patients are handling applications.
These include seals composite material for surgically implanted positioned correctly for treatment whilst for automated blood collection devices, devices, including hip joints.
It can be TM also facilitating higher image quality and Diamonex coated valves and bearing used to manufacture femoral heads with lower x-ray doses.
surfaces, custom-developed ultrasonic diameters close to that of a natural joint sensors to detect air bubbles in the and for thinner wall section acetabular blood flow and pressure sensors to cups.
This offers recipients a wider range detect occlusions.
of motion and a reduced risk of dislocation.
19 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Orthopaedic implants Treatment through Ceramics at the heart of a scanner neurostimulation The Technical Ceramics Division is leveraging Advanced ceramics are making Ceramic assemblies and components its experience in hip joints to offer other innovative treatment methods possible.
from the Technical Ceramics Division TM TM surgical implants using Vitox and Zyranox Ceramic-to-metal brazed feedthroughs from are critical in demanding diagnostic Zirconia bioceramic materials.
Our spinal Technical Ceramics provide the electrical applications including computed devices offer faster bone fusion, no allograft connection needed to communicate with tomography scanning equipment and or autologous bone graft, anterior and neurostimulators that pulse various nerves x-ray machines for mammography.
It is posterior operative procedures and optimum for pain management and to treat epilepsy, the design, material purity and quality biomechanical stability.
depression, migraine and other conditions.
of the ceramic components that defines the quality of the diagnostic images.
20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Advanced materials for the petrochemical industry... Superior down-hole performance From cosmetics through fuels and fertilisers to detergents and plastics, the petrochemical industry and its products play an enormous role in our daily lives.
Advanced materials technology from Morgan Crucible helps the industry to ensure productivity is maximised and processes are efficient whilst also minimising emissions.
As exploration for oil, gas and other fossil fuels increasingly involves onand offshore deep drilling, drill bit reliability and tolerance Helping to cut emissions become critical to exploration productivity.
The Carbon Division is a major supplier of the highly engineered graphite powder used in the manufacture of polycrystalline diamond cutters, whilst the Technical Ceramics Division provides the braze alloys which are critical to the manufacture of drill bits.
Their performance is a critical factor for drill bit productivity and reliability.
Heat management in the petrochemical sector The reduction and, where possible, elimination of fugitive gas and product vapour emissions from valves, pumps, compressors and other pressurised equipment is an imperative across the petrochemical sector.
Fugitive emissions represent a loss of product and frequently contribute to air pollution and climate change.
The Carbon Division works closely with its customers Thermal Ceramics supplies optimised heat to develop its range of carbon and silicon management and fire protection solutions carbide materials which are used for the for petrochemical plants around the world.
seal faces in rotating process equipment.
With a broad portfolio of high-temperature The chemical resistance and self-lubricating insulating fibres and insulating fire bricks properties of the Divisions materials make and monolithics, and backed by engineering them ideal choices across the industry.
experience and a global network of sales offices, Thermal Ceramics is helping the petrochemical sector to reduce energy costs and extend service life.
21 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Advanced materials for the petrochemical industry... 22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... enabling greater performance and efficiency.
Petrochemicals: Morgan Crucibles global spread enables customers in the worldwide petrochemical industry to access our leading materials technology and solutions to help them reduce energy consumption in their processes and to make them more reliable and efficient.
Drill bit performance Rugged fluid handling Fire protection in the petrochemical sector In partnership with its customers, the Carbon-graphites and silicon carbides A fire in a refinery can quickly spiral out Technical Ceramics Division has developed are used extensively in pump sealing of control with disastrous consequences.
a proprietary process for the production of applications.
The sealing challenge The destruction of instrumentation and the high-strength, high-purity brazing alloys increases as refiners process contaminated control cabling can prevent the refinery used in highly specialised drill bits, offering and abrasive-laden oil.
Silicon carbide from being shut down, making the fire TM superior down-hole performance, increased and other seal materials developed by the worse.
Thermal Ceramics FireMaster tool life and enhanced productivity.
Carbon Division are at the heart of highsystem protects cables, helping maintain temperature, high-pressure sealing systems control in an emergency situation.
23 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Enhanced efficiency ethylene Self-lubricating sealing materials Temperature measurement cracking The steam cracking process is the most Fluid handling pumps and compressors are Thermocouple tubes from the Technical energy-consuming process in the chemical key to the operation of a chemical plant.
Ceramics Divison are made from specialist industry.
Thermal Ceramics is working with Leading pump and seal manufacturers ceramics, custom designed and up ethylene cracking technology providers around the world depend on the selfto 3.9 metres long.
They enable the to improve the energy efficiency of their lubricating properties of the Carbon accurate and fast measurement of designs, offering solutions from our range Divisions axial face seal materials to help temperatures of up to 2,000C in of insulating fire bricks and highincrease maintenance intervals and to the aggressive and rapidly changing temperature insulating fibre.
24 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Market-leading solutions for the global metals industry... 25 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Market-leading solutions for the global metals industry... Speciality carbon and graphite in the Around the world the metals metallurgical industries industry is investing to reduce its environmental footprint, particularly in relation to energy use and associated CO emissions.
2 Morgan Crucible offers a comprehensive range of advanced engineered solutions to help.
Efficient furnaces for quality The unique properties of carbon and graphite are fundamental to casting the efficiency and performance of the metals industry.
As well as comprehensive engineering support, the Carbon Division provides a wide range of technically advanced products to aluminium processors, including graphite flux tubes and degassing rotors TM for purification, Permacast rings for semi-continuous casting and multiple components used in slab casting.
These are enhanced as required with the Divisions proprietary impermeable coating systems or anti-oxidation treatments.
Energy-conserving refractory solutions Ajax X-Ray Inc is a specialist non-ferrous casting manufacturer with 40 years of experience.
Keen to enhance competitiveness and to reduce emissions, the company embarked on a programme to replace its existing metal-melting furnaces.
Following a competitive evaluation, Ajax X-Ray installed five Morgan Molten Metals Systems Recuperative Bale-Out furnaces at its foundry in Sayre, PA, USA.
The recuperative furnaces recycle waste heat and use much less energy to deliver the same rate of metal melt.
Nancy Brittain, Thermal Ceramics provides thermal management solutions to help Ajax X-Ray business manager, commented: the metals industry control product quality and conserve energy.
The new furnaces lose so little heat that Focused on high-temperature applications, world-leading product we may have to start heating the foundry performance is combined with engineered refractory solutions building in winter!
for the complete metal-making process.
Monolithic Higun is used in blast furnaces, Pyro-Bloc in reheating and heat treatment furnaces, Tri-Mor Plascast for lining walls and arches and Tri-Mor Hicast Extra insulating fire bricks and Morflo for hearth and reheating furnaces.
26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements... enhancing efficiency and operational yields in iron and steel.
Metals: Morgan Crucible is uniquely positioned technically and geographically to offer a full range of advanced thermal management solutions to the worlds iron and steel industries.
Hot blast stove Cowpers Blast furnace Continuous casting Cowper stoves are critical to blast furnace Modern blast furnaces can produce up to Continuous casting eliminates multiple efficiency.
They preheat the blast air to 80,000 tonnes of iron per week, requiring steps in the steel-making process by casting o 900-1,300 C and recover heat from the hot large quantities of energy and raw the steel into semi-finished shapes.
Thermal gases from the furnace.
Thermal Ceramics supplies its management and control are key and TM provides the insulating fire bricks which are Monolithic Higun to help ensure blast Thermal Ceramics range of fibre-based essential to the thermal management and furnace yields, throughput and thermal high-temperature insulation boards, reliability of this part of the process.
vacuum-formed shapes and paper provide solutions.
27 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Annealing bell furnace Galvanising line Walking beam furnace Heating steel sheets, coil, wire and other Coating steel by hot-dipping it in a bath Used for heating slabs of steel up to products to above their recrystallisation of molten zinc at 460C provides it with 250mm thick, the walking beam furnace temperature in a controlled atmosphere, the corrosion protection needed in multiple is a heat-intensive challenge.
Leveraging TM TM the annealing furnace ensures the finished consumer, construction and automotive its range of Pyro-Bloc modules, Hicast TM steel has a uniform crystal structure and applications.
To help ensure the galvanising Extra, insulating fire bricks and Morflo, good dynamic properties.
Thermal Ceramics line is thermally efficient, Thermal Ceramics Thermal Ceramics is a leader in heat TM insulating fire bricks and Superwool provides multiple products including management for walking beam and insulating fibre offer the heat management insulating fire bricks, insulating fibre other continuous reheating furnaces.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Taking our responsibilities seriously.
29 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Overview Annual Report 2009 Business review Governance Financial statements Science, Engineering & Technology Corporate responsibility is integral Student of the Year to Morgan Crucibles business.
We take the needs and expectations of our key stakeholders into account as we work to implement our five strategic priorities.
Our framework of policies, procedures and reporting helps to ensure our approach is consistent worldwide.
Focus on sustainability To help foster the best engineering talent, Morgan Crucible sponsors the annual Science, Engineering & Technology Student of the Year Awards.
Morgan Crucible is proud to sponsor this event as we believe it allows high-calibre students to showcase their remarkable research work and demonstrates the capability of graduates in the UK.
The 2009 winner of the Best Materials Student award, Michael Robinson from Sheffield University, received his award from Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Crucible.
New training centre Many of Morgan Crucibles products and services help to improve the sustainability of our customers operations.
For example, Thermal Ceramics advanced high-temperature insulation solutions dramatically reduce energy consumption and associated emissions in the metals, petrochemical, power generation and other sectors of the economy.
Whilst the energy saved by the use of our products may exceed the amount consumed in their production by a wide margin, we cannot be complacent.
Internally we continue to work to conserve energy and reduce our carbon footprint in absolute and relative terms.
As a result our CO emissions intensity was down 2 by 18% over the past two years and we are targeting further A new training centre has been opened reductions in the coming years.
at the Carbon Divisions site in South Africa, providing greater flexibility to support a range of training initiatives from adult basic education through to production technology qualifications.
