Business review Our business Mothercare plc is the proud owner of two Both Mothercare and the Early Learning Ben Gordon Chief executive iconic brands synonymous with parenting: Centre source products from around the Mothercare and the Early Learning Centre.
The group co-ordinates the sourcing It also owns 50 per cent of the internet social of its products through three principal networking site for mothers, Gurgle.
sourcing offices, one each in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Bangalore.
These offices The Mothercare brand is an indispensable are the conduit for innovative and exclusive part of the process of parenting.
Product sourced Mothercare brand has global appeal from our key markets is then consolidated and reach providing a one stop shop and shipped to our stores around the world shopping environment in-store in 51 countries via a dedicated supply chain designed to which, allied to its worldwide internet and be both cost and environmentally efficient.
catalogue business, provides the widest range of products for mothers-to-be and Finally, Gurgle.
com is our social networking children up to eight years old with maternity site providing support and a wealth and childrens clothing, accessories, furniture, of information to registered users on all home furnishings, feeding, bathing, travel aspects of parenting as well as giving new equipment and toys.
mothers the chance of sharing experiences.
Mothercare prides itself in being a specialist retailer, providing products that are safe, innovative and relevant to parents faced with the ever changing demands of bringing up children and helping them to meet the needs The group is well placed and aspirations of their children, worldwide.
as it enters the new The Early Learning Centre also has a strong brand heritage.
Originally founded as a financial year, benefiting mail order business providing toys and from the growing books with educational content, it extended its reach into stores both in the United International platform, Kingdom and latterly overseas.
It too has a resilient multi-channel multi-channel approach offering customers the choice to shop in-store, on the net or UK business, strong through the seasonal catalogues.
Since cash flow and debt free acquisition by the group in June 2007, its international activities have been considerably balance sheet.
The Early Learning Centre brand provides eight major categories of toys and games primarily from birth to six years old.
6 Growing two world class brands Our aim is to build the Mothercare group into the worlds leading specialist retailer of parenting and childrens products.
We are nurturing our two world class brands.
Two world class brands in 51 countries ELC plastic ELC spade ELC plant pots watering can and fork 10.00 4.00 5.00 7 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued Our International Growing growth has continued rapidly.
We are truly a global branded group internationally with extended family in 50 countries.
During the year 115 franchise stores have opened.
We have developed strong synergies within our international supply chains.
Mothercare & ELC Where we have International franchises ELC Mothercare 1.
Russia Results Two world class brands The Mothercare group has grown sales, Our strategy is centred on the development profit and dividend against the backdrop of our two world class brands, Mothercare of a difficult global economic environment.
and the Early Learning Centre.
Specialism and The multi-channel UK business has again innovation are central to our brand positioning grown like-for-like sales, boosted by strong as we continue to build the Mothercare group performances from Direct and the integration as a leading global parenting retailer.
of the Early Learning Centre.
Our International One of our exciting innovations this year business had a record year with profits was the launch of our exclusive Baby K increasing by nearly 50 per cent.
range, designed in conjunction with celebrity Group sales for the year rose by 6.9 per cent mother Myleene Klass.
The range has been to 723.6 million 2008: 676.8 million and successful in the UK and around the world group profit before tax increased nearly and as a result we plan to extend Baby K ten-fold to 42.2 million 2008: 4.5 million.
We reached an Like-for-like sales growth in the UK up exclusive licensing agreement with the BBC 1.4 per cent and in International up 6.0 per to produce In the Night Garden Home and cent contributed to this performance which Travel products, which are selling ahead of was also boosted by the benefits of the our expectations.
We also continue to have integration of the Early Learning Centre great success with the MyChoice buggy and very tight control of costs.
Our key system which is a real innovation in allowing underlying profit before tax measure customisation of products by our customers.
calculated on the more comparable With its series of interchangeable options, proforma basis see below, increased the MyChoice has become one of our best by 12.4 per cent to 37.1 million 2008: selling pushchairs ever.
On the statutory basis which At the Early Learning Centre we have been is not comparable as the Early Learning working on our own brand toys.
The best Centre first quarter losses are included selling development toys this year included this year but excluded last year, underlying our own brand Making Music range, Snow profit before tax decreased by 3.9 per cent Queen Palace and the Tower of Doom.
The best in class expertise and specialism The group remains cash-generative and debt of our staff differentiates us from the free.
The acquisition facility was not drawn competition and continues to be a key down at any point in the year and the net focus for us.
We were again included in cash balance at the year end was 24.8 Top Mothercare Dubai the top 20 Best Big Companies to Work Mall of Dubai million 2008: 22.7 million.
As a result of the For in the 2009 Sunday Times awards strong underlying performance of the group Middle ELC Bahrain progressing to 13th place overall.
and the positive cash generation, we are Below Mothercare China pleased to propose a final dividend of 9.9 Shanghai pence giving a total dividend for the year of 14.5 pence, an increase of 20.8 per cent.
The remainder of this review and the financial review is prepared on the more comparable proforma basis.
It assumes that the Early Learning Centre, which was acquired in the previous financial year on 19 June 2007, had been owned for all of last year.
9 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued Mothercare strategy In Europe, we saw positive like-for-like growth, Operating margin The Mothercare group four-lever growth particularly in Russia, which contributes the Underlying profit before tax as a percentage strategy is providing significant benefits: highest international sales numbers for us of sales.
We plan to open a further ten 1. International franchise globalisation new Mothercare and Early Learning Centre of the two brands: stores this year, which will bring our total 2.
Integration benefits Early Learning stores number in Russia to 47.
Centre acquisition: The Middle East is a very important region 5.1% 3.
Restructuring the UK property portfolio: and for us where we see huge potential and we currently have 196 stores in the region, across 4.
A key part of our development Integrated stores 1. International franchise globalisation strategy in the Middle East is to open larger of the two brands stores with the complete range of Home International represents the biggest single and Travel.
growth opportunity for the Mothercare The International roll-out of the Early Learning group and we now have 609 overseas Centre continues to do well, having almost stores in 50 countries outside the UK.
doubled the number of Early Learning Centre International continues to develop rapidly stores outside the UK since acquisition to with overall franchisee retail sales for the 164, and taken the brand for the first time year up by 40.9 per cent to 404.2 million to ten new countries this year including India, and underlying profits up by 47.9 per cent Bahrain and Kuwait.
The Early Learning to 13.9 million.
Centre is now present in 29 countries, up In the same way that the Mothercare brand from 15 when we acquired it.
has been so readily received around the world, the Early Learning Centre brand is Franchisee retail sales proving to be just as popular.
We have also Franchisee retail sales for the year up by 40.9 per cent to 404.2 million and underlying Mothercare invested in our global supply chain and we group profits up by 47.9 per cent to 13.9 million now have five distribution centres at the core on a proforma basis.
of our state-of-the-art logistics network.
40.9% 10 Side by side retail We continue to work together to push forward 84 and grow our two world class brands.
We are ELC inserts in achieving this by maximising Mothercare the synergies from the integration of the Early stores.
Learning Centre, through ELC inserts, International roll-out, combined sourcing, the development of multichannel and extensive cost synergies.
Mothercare m. p. v MyChoice MyChoice double stroller four-wheeler three-wheeler 130.00 pushchair pushchair 350.00 350.00 11 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued Two into one As our family grows we need to constantly assess and restructure our combined property portfolio.
Some of the initiatives we have actioned this year are rightsizing, 2 into 1s and out of town format.
5.0m profit The property restructure is on track to deliver a total 5.0 million of profit before tax by the end of the financial year 2009 10.
Rosebud house ELC wonder ELC wooden 25.00 cubes shape sorter 10.00 10.00 12 2.
Restructuring the UK property portfolio Centre acquisition The Early Learning Centre acquisition gave Integrated stores Luton 2 into 1 Good progress has been made in realising us a unique opportunity to accelerate our the synergies from the Early Learning property strategy, allowing us to integrate Centre acquisition.
Total synergies for and optimise the combined UK property the financial year for 2008 09 enabled portfolio, taking the best sites from both us to drive benefits ahead of the original brands.
At the end of last year we announced business case and we now consider the a major restructure of our portfolio which integration of the Early Learning Centre included store rightsizing, consolidating to be substantially complete.
two stores into one and store closures.
In total, including the stores that received The largest single synergy from the acquisition an Early Learning Centre insert or a new of the Early Learning Centre has been through out of town refit, we announced that 145 building Early Learning Centre inserts within stores would be affected by property Mothercare stores.
Our 84 Early Learning restructure activity.
Centre inserts performed at the top end of our expectations through Christmas and This restructure is now largely complete and Out of town have continued to perform well since.
The the beneficial effects on the business can be Stoke-on-Trent success of the inserts is due to the increased seen with costs in the year 10.4 million lower footfall each brand brings to the other.
The property restructure delivered 2.4 million of additional profit Other significant cost savings have been in 2008 09 and is on track to add 2.6 million achieved by combining the two businesses, of profit before tax in the financial year including moving to a single management 2009 10, taking the total profit increase team and fully integrating the back office to our 5.0 million target.
functions whilst maintaining the key talent and expertise of the Early Learning Centre With recent structural changes in the property team.
During the year we successfully market, we are well placed to rationalise relocated the Early Learning Centre further and as a result will move into the warehouse to a new site adjacent to the next phase of our property transformation.
existing Mothercare warehouse in Daventry, Almost 50 per cent of the groups property resulting in further transport savings.
leases are coming up for renewal in the next three years enabling us to seek better Growing our proposition lease terms, or move out of lower profit UK sales per square foot on a statutory basis stores.
This phase will also see us open Full year UK sales compared to year end UK store square footage new out of town Parenting Centres in key catchments and open new stores in higher 288 traffic locations such as malls and city 284 centres where we do not currently have a 231 presence, taking further advantage of the beneficial property deals currently available.
07 08 09 13 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review Business review continued 4.
Driving the multi-channel business Summary and outlook Direct The Direct business has continued its rapid This has been a strong performance for Catalogues.
growth with total sales through the Direct the Mothercare group.
Our International channel now amounting to 107.3 million, business has enjoyed a record year, an increase of 25.5 per cent.
This is made increasing profits by nearly 50 per cent.
up of Direct in Home sales up 24.9 per cent We now have 1,014 stores worldwide to 62.2 million and Direct in Store sales including 609 Mothercare and Early up 26.3 per cent to 45.1 million.
Learning Centre stores outside the UK in 50 countries.
The multi-channel UK business Mothercare has been a pioneer in multihas again grown like-for-like sales in a channel retailing in the UK.
The proportion challenging market, boosted by strong of UK sales now delivered through our performances from Direct and the Direct channel has grown to 18.5 per cent.
integration of the Early Learning Centre.
Our online range and web offering continues to improve and Web in Store in particular Given the uncertain consumer environment continues to be a great success with customers.
we are planning cautiously for 2009 10 and, as previously announced, we expect The Mothercare website offers customers that gross margins will come under further a much wider choice of Home and Travel pressure from the weakness of sterling.
than is available in any store and two-thirds of our Clothing range is now available Overall, we are well placed as we enter Social networking success online.
Our Early Learning Centre website the new financial year, benefiting from Gurgle.
com online advice for parents.
also has more products available online our growing International platform, resilient than in-store including larger home and multi-channel UK business, strong cash garden items that require home delivery.
flow and debt free balance sheet.
We are also announcing today that we plan to launch Mothercare websites overseas with our franchisees.
We are working with our partners to open two trial sites in the next year.
The model will be based on a centralised site and support structure which share the Ben Gordon look and feel of Mothercare.
com, but with Chief executive local language and fulfilment.
Based on the performance of these trials, we may roll out further sites in other countries.
com, our social networking and Operating margin information site for parents has proved Underlying profit before tax as a percentage a success with mothers around the world of sales on a statutory basis.
and now has 91,000 registered users.
It is fast becoming a brand in its own right 5.7% and our latest development for Gurgle 5.1% has been the launch of three parenting 4.5% advice books with Harper Collins.
07 08 09 14 Clicking with Direct We continue to grow our Direct business through Direct in Home and Direct in Store.
25.5% Progress has been rapid over the past year, with growth increasing over 25 per cent.
We increase in aim to provide the widest choice, use the best Direct in Home technology and leverage the success of online.
and Direct in Store sales 91,000 registered users on Gurgle.
com VTech my laptop Till point Shopping trolley Orange Blue 16.00 20.00 20.00 15 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business review
