Board of directors Ian Peacock Ben Gordon Neil Harrington Non-executive chairman Chief executive Finance director Appointed chairman on 1 November 2002 having Appointed in December 2002.
Formerly Senior Appointed in January 2006.
Formerly finance joined the board as chairman elect on 1 August Vice President and Managing Director, Disney director of George Clothing, a division of 2002.
Chairman of Family Mosaic plc, a London Store, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Has also held Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
Prior to joining Wal-Mart, based Housing Association and Deputy senior management positions with the WHSmith was finance director of Barclaycard International, Chairman of Lombard Risk Management plc.
Group in Europe and the USA and LOreal S. A. a division of Barclays Bank plc and group financial Consultant and Chair of audit and compliance Paris.
Non-executive director of Britvic plc.
controller of French Connection group plc.
committee of C. Hoare & Co. A City Fellow of Chartered Accountant.
Hughes Hall, Cambridge, a Trustee of the PHG Foundation and Chairman of the Financial Advisory Committee for Westminster Abbey.
Previously a Trustee of WRVS and Chairman of Galiform PLC formerly MFI Furniture Group and has also held a number of senior positions in the banking industry in London, New York and Asia with Kleinwort Benson Group and with BZW.
A special adviser to the Bank of England from 19982000, and a non-executive director of Norwich and Peterborough Building Society from 19972005.
Bernard Cragg David Williams Senior non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed in March 2003.
Chairman of Appointed in August 2004.
Chairman of Accantia Workspace Group Plc and non-executive director Limited, Sandpiper CI Limited, The Original of Astro All Asia Networks plc.
Formerly group Factory Shop Limited and chair of the operating finance director and chief financial officer of partners at Duke Street Capital LLP.
Non-executive Carlton Communications plc, chairman of I-mate director of the Royal London Group Limited.
plc and Datamonitor plc and a non-executive Formerly chairman of Wyevale Garden Centres director of Bristol & West plc and Arcadia plc.
plc, DX Services plc, Avanti Screen Media Group Chartered Accountant.
plc and Avebury Group Limited.
A Governor of the London Business School.
Has held a number of senior management roles in Diageo plc, PepsiCo Restaurants International and Whitbread plc.
Karren Brady Richard Rivers Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed in July 2003.
Managing director Appointed in July 2008.
Head of Strategy and of Birmingham City Football Club plc.
Chief of Staff of Unilever and also chairs Unilevers A non-executive director of Channel 4 Corporate Ventures Group.
Television Corporation and of Sport England.
