Directors report The directors present their report on the Going concern Acquisition of own shares affairs of the group, together with the The accounts have been prepared under The Company was given a general approval at financial statements and auditors report the going concern principle.
For full details the AGM in July 2008 to purchase up to 10 per for the 52 week period ended 28 March please see the corporate governance cent of its shares in the market.
The chairmans statement at page 5 report on page 29. expires after the AGM on 16 July 2009.
The gives further information on the work of the authority has not been used during the year.
Dividend board during the period.
The directors recommend a final dividend As at 20 May 2009, the Companys issued Business review of 9.9p per share.
An interim dividend of 4.6p share capital was 87,624,472 ordinary shares The principal companies within the was paid in February 2009 2008: 3.7p per of 50p each all carrying voting rights.
Details Mothercare group for the period under share making a total of 14.5p per share, of the change in the Companys issued review were Mothercare plc the Company, 2008: total of 12.0p per share.
share capital during the year is set out in Mothercare UK Limited and Chelsea Stores note 27.
No shares were held in Treasury.
The trustees of the Mothercare Employee Holdings Ltd which owns the Early Learning Trust, who held 3,903,732 shares at the The Company has one class of ordinary Centre brand.
The Companies Act 1985 balance sheet date, have waived their shares.
Each share carries the right to one requires the directors report to contain a entitlement to receive dividends in respect vote at general meetings of the Company.
fair review of the business and a description of 1,816,463 shares.
The remaining shares There are no specific restrictions on the size of of the principal risks and uncertainties facing held by the Trust are conditionally awarded a holding in the Company nor on the transfer the group.
A review of the business strategy to participants in certain of the groups of shares, which are both governed by the and a commentary on the performance employee share schemes where such general provisions of the Companys articles of the group is set out in the performance schemes provide for dividends to accrue on of association and legislation.
The directors highlights, our group, chairmans and chief such conditional awards.
Consequently, the are not aware of any agreements between executives statements, the business review amount of the dividends waived by the Trust shareholders that may result in restrictions and financial review on pages 1, 2 and 5 will change from year to year in accordance on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
The principal risks facing with conditional awards made.
the business are detailed in the corporate Details of the Companys employee share governance report at page 29.
These Substantial shareholdings schemes are set out in the remuneration disclosures form part of this report.
The As at 20 May 2009, the Company has been report.
The trustees of the Mothercare directors report is prepared for the advised by or is aware of the following interests Employee Trust abstain from voting its members of the Company and should not in the Companys ordinary share capital: shareholding in the Company.
be relied upon by any other party or for any Percentage Directors other purpose.
Where the directors report Number of of issued The following directors served during the Holder shares share capital including the performance highlights, 52 week period ended 28 March 2009: our group, business review, financial Aberdeen Asset Name Appointment review, corporate responsibility report Management Group 10,092,961 11.52% and corporate governance report contain Ian Peacock Chairman and independent D C Thomson forward-looking statements these are & Company Ltd 8,950,000 10.21% non-executive director, made by the directors in good faith based chairman of the nomination M&G Asset on the information available to them Management Ltd 8,559,981 9.77% committee at the time of their approval of this report.
Karren Brady Independent non-executive Aegon Asset These statements will not be updated Management 4,987,561 5.69% director or reported upon further.
Consequently Bernard Cragg Senior independent Legal & General such statements should be treated with Investment non-executive director and caution due to the inherent uncertainties, chairman of the audit Management Ltd 4,487,780 5.12% including both economic and business risk committee factors, underlying such forward-looking Ben Gordon Executive director statements or information.
Neil Harrington Executive director Richard Rivers Independent non-executive director.
David Williams Independent non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee 25 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance Directors report continued Having been appointed since the last The groups remuneration strategy is set Payment of suppliers annual general meeting, Richard Rivers out in the remuneration report.
That report Payments to merchandise suppliers are retires from the board and offers himself for includes details of the various incentive made in accordance with general conditions election.
In accordance with the Companys schemes and share plans operated by of purchase, which are communicated to Articles of Association Karren Brady and Ian the group.
suppliers at the beginning of the trading Peacock retire by rotation from the board relationship.
It is the groups policy to make The group is an equal opportunities following the conclusion of the Annual payments to non-merchandise suppliers, employer and ensures that recruitment General Meeting on 16 July 2009 and stand unless otherwise agreed, within the period and promotion decisions in all of its for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical set out in the suppliers invoice or within companies are made solely on the basis details of all of the directors, indicating their 60 days from the date of invoice.
of suitability for the job.
Disabled people experience and qualifications, are set out are given due consideration for employment The amount owed to trade creditors at the on page 24. opportunities and, if employees become end of the financial year represented nil Details of directors service arrangements are disabled, every effort is made to retain days 2008: nil days of average daily set out in the remuneration report on page 36. them by providing relevant support.
purchases during the year for the Company There are no special contractual payments and 57 days 2008: 41 days for the group.
Pensions associated with a change of control.
The group operates pension schemes Fixed assets A statement of directors interests in the for those of its employees that wish to Changes in fixed assets are shown in note 17 shares of Mothercare plc and of their participate.
Details of the pension charge to the accounts.
A valuation of the groups remuneration is set out on pages 37 and is set out in note 33.
During the year, the freehold and long leasehold properties, 76 respectively.
A statement of directors group held discussions with the trustees excluding rack rented properties, was interests in contracts and indemnity of the Mothercare staff and executive carried out by external valuers, primarily arrangements is set out on page 31. pension schemes on the long term future CBRE as at 1 March 2009.
The basis of the structure of the schemes.
These discussions valuation is Existing Use Value in respect of Employees were undertaken against the background properties primarily occupied by the group The Company is committed to the involvement of increasing regulatory, legislative as well and on the basis of Market Value in respect of all of its employees in the delivery of its as demographic impacts on the schemes, of investment properties, both bases being strategy.
Consequently it communicates, the volatility of the interest rate and in accordance with the Practice Statements and reviews with all its employees, its investment risks on the results of the contained in the RICS Appraisal and corporate objectives, performance and Company.
These discussions are now Valuation Manual.
This adjusted valuation economic activity relevant to its business.
complete and the valuation assumptions of the properties resulted in a surplus This is achieved through the Company agreed.
During the year, the Mothercare over their net book value of 7,696,204. magazine Small Talk, briefings, bulletins, staff and executive pension schemes were email and video presentations.
Significant agreements closed to new entrants and a new defined The group has entered into an agreement The Company aspires to develop a loyal contribution scheme consistent with that that is subject to change of control provisions.
and high performing team through its DNA already offered to Early Learning Centre This agreement is a Supplemental Agreement processes.
As part of this development employees opened to which all new and re-stated Agreement dated 27 April 2007 process it measures the capabilities of employees will be offered membership.
in respect of a 65,000,000 credit facility with the groups employees, ascertains their The result of the triennial valuation carried HSBC Bank plc for general business purposes, development needs and develops and out in 2008 and the changes to the schemes which reduced to 55,000,000 on 27 April 2008. implements programmes designed to effected during the year will result in This agreement expires on 31 May 2010. ensure that the critical skills required for additional contributions from the members the development of both the individual of the schemes, a cap on revaluation of and the Company are attained.
The future benefits of 2.5 per cent and additional Company is proud to have been included Company contributions of approximately in the Sunday Times 20 Best Big Companies 1.0 million per annum together with a to Work For in 2008 and 2009. one-off lump sum contribution of 3.0 million in 2009 10 to the defined benefit schemes.
26 Corporate citizenship Annual General Meeting Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend The board recognises that corporate The 2009 Annual General Meeting will be of 9.9 pence per share payable on 7 August citizenship, or social responsibility, is an held on Thursday, 16 July 2009 at 10.30am 2009 to those shareholders on the register important factor in managing the reputation in the conference suite at the Companys on 5 June 2009. of a business such as Mothercare.
Further head office at Cherry Tree Road, Watford, Resolution 3: To approve the directors details are set out on pages 19 to 23.
Auditors The notice of the meeting and a pre-paid Resolution 4: To elect Richard Rivers.
In the case of each of the persons who form of proxy for the use of shareholders Richard Rivers was appointed following were directors of the Company at the date unable to come to the AGM but who the conclusion of the AGM in 2008 and when this report was approved: may wish to vote or to put any questions consequently retires from the board and to the board of directors are enclosed so far as each of the directors is aware, offers himself for election.
The Company there is no relevant audit information wishes to encourage as many shareholders Resolutions 5 and 6: Re-appointment as defined in the Companies Act 1985 as possible to vote electronically.
The Companys articles of of which the Companys auditors are shareholders who have elected to receive association require that one third of the unaware: and electronic communications may register directors that are required to retire by each of the directors has taken all the their vote in respect of resolutions to be rotation must retire.
Separate resolutions will steps that he she ought to have taken proposed to the AGM at www.
be proposed on each of these appointments.
as a director to make himself herself Shareholders may also submit questions via Resolution 7: Re-appointment of auditors.
aware of any relevant audit information email to investorrelations@mothercare.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness as defined and to establish that the The chairman will respond in writing to to act as auditors to the Company Companys auditors are aware of questions received.
and accordingly an ordinary resolution that information.
As in previous years a copy of the chairmans to re-appoint them will be proposed.
This confirmation is given and should opening statement to the meeting, together The meeting will also be asked to consider be interpreted in accordance with the with a resum of questions and answers given the following matters of Special Business: provisions of s234ZA of the Companies at the meeting, will be prepared following Act 1985. the AGM.
This will be made available to As Ordinary Resolutions shareholders on request to the group company Resolution 8: To increase the authorised A resolution proposing the re-election secretary at the Companys head office.
This resolution proposes that of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company the authorised share capital of the Company will be put to the AGM.
The following paragraphs give explanatory be increased from 52,500,000 to 60,000,000, notes on the business to be proposed at Charitable and political donations representing a percentage increase of the meeting: The Company made a further donation approximately 14 per cent.
This increase is to the Mothercare Group Foundation during Resolution 1: To receive the Companys being sought in order to give the Company the year of 125,000.
Total charitable annual accounts together with the directors sufficient authorised share capital to take donations for the year ended 28 March 2009 report, the directors remuneration report full advantage of the ability to allot ordinary were 156,386 2008: 205,000. and the auditors report upon the accounts shares under the authorities proposed in for the 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009. resolution 9.
It is the Companys policy not to make The directors will present the report and political donations.
accounts and shareholders may raise any questions on it at the meeting.
27 Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Governance Directors report continued Resolution 9: Authority to allot relevant Resolution 12: Purchase of own shares.
The effect of this resolution is The Company was authorised at the 2008 to renew the authority of the directors, AGM to purchase up to 10 per cent of its conferred by Article 4 B of the articles shares in the market.
This authority has of association, to allot relevant securities not been used and expires at the conclusion up to an amount equal to approximately of this years AGM.
This resolution seeks one-third of the issued ordinary share to renew the authority for a further year.
capital of the Company as at 31 March 2009.
Shares purchased if any will be cancelled The authority will continue until 30 or where appropriate held in Treasury September 2010 or until the conclusion pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of of the next AGM, whichever is the sooner.
Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations The directors have no present intention 2003.
The directors have no present intention of using this authority.
of using this authority, but wish to be in a position to act quickly in the interests of the The Company currently has no shares Company and shareholders generally if held in Treasury.
As Special Resolutions By order of the board Resolution 10: The Shareholder Rights Directive is intended to be implemented in the UK in August this year.
One of the requirements of the Directive is that all general meetings must be held on at least 21 days notice unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
We are currently Clive E Revett able to call general meetings other than Group company secretary annual general meetings on 14 days 20 May 2009 notice.
We are proposing a resolution at the AGM so that we can continue to be able to do so after the Directive is implemented.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM.
It is intended that a similar resolution will then be proposed on an annual basis, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive.
Resolution 11: Authority to allot securities for cash other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders.
The effect of this resolution is to renew the power conferred on the directors by Article 4 C of the articles of association to allot equity securities for cash or sell treasury shares up to an amount representing approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2009, without the need first to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
The authority will continue until 30 September 2010 or until the conclusion of the next AGM, whichever is the sooner.
