Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Financial During the year, the Group has maintained cover for its directors Statements of Mouchel Group plc the Company and the Mouchel and officers and those of its subsidiary companies under a Group for the year ended 31 July 2009. directors and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Principal activities Mouchel is a consulting and business services group supporting Share capital and change of control clients in developing and managing their infrastructure assets.
The authorised share capital of the Company as at 31 July 2009 Services are delivered through three main businesses: Government together with details of shares issued during the financial year is Services, Regulated Industries and Highways.
shown in note 27 of the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 85.
During the year, the Companys ordinary share capital increased Business review by 281,458 as a result of the issue of shares to satisfy exercises The progress of the business during the year and anticipated future under employee share plans.
The ordinary share capital as at developments are discussed in the Chairmans Statement and 31 July 2009 consisted of 112,369,719 ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
Business Review on pages 6 to 35 and provide information about the Groups strategy, its business, its financial performance, The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary key performance indicators, the principal risks and uncertainties shares are contained in the Companys Articles of Association, facing the Group and likely developments.
a copy of which can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
The Articles of Association can only be changed by Acquisitions a special resolution passed in general meeting of the shareholders.
The Company did not make any acquisitions during the year.
There are no special control rights or restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares and no requirements Post balance sheet event for the prior approval of any transfers.
No person holds securities Please refer to Note 37 on page 96. in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Results and dividends holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Group loss for the financial year after taxation and exceptional of securities or on voting rights.
items amounted to 13.0m 2008: profit of 19.6m.
An interim dividend of 2.25p per ordinary share was paid on 30 May 2009.
Each ordinary share other than treasury shares, which have no voting rights carries the right to vote at a general meeting of the The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.85p per ordinary Company.
At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of share 2008: 4.25p, which will absorb an estimated 4.3m of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands unless a poll is shareholder funds, to be paid on 18 December 2009 to ordinary duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every member who is shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 October present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company 2009.
Total dividends relating to the year will amount to 6.10p shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in per share.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies can The Trustees of the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan be found in note u of the Accounting policies on page 62 and note Trusts ESOPs have waived their rights to dividends in respect of 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements on page 80.
1,436,844 shares and do not exercise their right to vote in respect of such shares.
The Companys employee share schemes contain Directors provisions relating to a change of control of the Company.
Under Biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board these provisions, a change of control of the Company would during the year and up to the date of signing the annual report normally be a vesting event, subject to any relevant performance and their share interests can be found on pages 36 and 51 conditions being satisfied.
The Company is not a party to any other respectively.
On 30 January 2009 Bo Lerenius was appointed to significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a the plc board as a Non-Executive Director.
Bo is the former Group change of control nor is it party to any agreement with the directors Chief Executive of Stena Line 1992 to 1998 and of Associated or employees providing for compensation or loss of office or British Ports 1999 to 2007, where he remained a Non-Executive employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
He is currently a Director of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce, a Non-Executive Director of Purchase of own shares G4S plc, Land Securities Group plc, and Thomas Cook Group plc.
The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to Bo succeeded Richard Benton as Chairman on 1 May 2009.
10% of its own ordinary shares in the market.
This authority was not used during the year nor in the period to 16 October 2009.
The Richard Benton stood down as Chairman on 1 May 2009 after Board intends to seek shareholder approval to renew the authority 11 years with the Group.
He joined Mouchel as a Non-Executive at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Director in 1998 and became Chairman in 2001, successfully steering Mouchel through its flotation in 2002 and subsequent In accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares merger with Parkman Group plc in 2003.
Richard made a huge Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, companies are permitted to contribution to the development and growth of the Group.
hold purchased shares rather than cancelling them.
The Board has no current intention to purchase shares as treasury shares, other Details of the remuneration of all Directors who served during than as required for employee share schemes.
the financial year and their service contracts are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 51.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance to the Companys business or the Group.
Directors Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 39 Mouchel Group plc Governance Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders The Group also has a policy of ensuring it offers family-friendly As at 6 October 2009, the Company had been notified of the working arrangements.
We consider requests for individuals to following voting interests in its ordinary share capital, disclosable work flexibly to meet their needs and the needs of the business.
under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Some people also have more formal arrangements in place such Transparency Rules: as part-time working and job-sharing.
Our flexible benefits scheme offers childcare vouchers and the opportunity to extend a number No.
of % of issued of healthcare benefits to employees families.
Name of holder ordinary shares share capital M&G Investment Management Ltd 12,828,418 11.42 Learning and development is critical to the success of Mouchel Schroder Investment Mgmt Ltd 11,284,834 10.04 and we have a performance management system that provides Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 7,778,148 6.92 a bi-annual opportunity for employees to discuss their progress Aegon Asset Management 7,014,058 6.24 and identify training needs.
We provide our employees with a wide Lloyds Banking Group 6,171,896 5.49 range of resources to assist with their personal development, Invesco Asset Management 4,348,061 3.87 which includes a mix of formal training and online self-learning.
Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 3,395,500 3.02 Charitable and political donations Corporate governance During the financial year 2008 09 the Group made charitable A report on corporate governance can be found on pages 42 to 45. donations of 48,761 to a range of charities, matching an equal amount raised by staff.
A further 17,105 was donated to other Corporate Responsibility charities, making total charitable donations for the year of 65,866 A summary of the Groups Corporate Responsibility activities can 2008: 80,417. be found in the Business Review on pages 30 to 33.
In addition, the Group has produced a separate Corporate Responsibility Report, We have developed a new community involvement policy, which provides more detailed information with respect to the encouraging our employees to form long-term relationships environment, health and safety and employees.
A copy of the with local charities, by focusing on volunteer work and fundraising Report is available on the Companys website.
which benefits the local community.
We believe that these efforts will now have a significant impact and will build on the benefits Employees we are already providing through the Groups contracts with As at 31 July 2009, there were 11,121 people including temporary local authorities.
The Group will match both time volunteered staff working for the Group.
The Groups policy is to provide an and funds raised and we aspire to devote time and resources environment for all employees to fully develop their individual to the community equivalent to 1% of pre-tax profits.
potential and thereby encourage their contribution to the success of Mouchel.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement It is the Groups policy not to make political donations in the UK or of its employees and has Investors in People accreditation for all its overseas and the Group has no intention of making any political UK offices and sites.
donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
However, the Political Parties, Elections and Referendum Act the PPER Act and Internal communication is a high priority within the Group and part 14 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act define political employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as parties, other political organisations or independent election employees and on the Groups financial performance.
This is candidates very widely.
The Board will therefore seek authority at achieved through informal and formal meetings and various the forthcoming AGM for the Company and any Company that is communications.
Following the announcement of the Groups final or becomes a subsidiary during the period ending on the date of and interim results, staff presentations are made in various locations the AGM 2010 to incur such political expenditure up to 100,000 across the Group by the senior management team.
The Group uses in aggregate in order to prevent an inadvertent breach of the PPER its intranet to communicate job vacancies, Group policies and other Act and the 2006 Act.
Research and development Staff opinions are sought annually via a confidential staff survey.
During the year, the Group capitalised 526,000 2008: nil relating The results of the survey are communicated to staff and action to internal software development.
plans are implemented to make improvements.
Supplier payment policy Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and Mouchel Group plc is a holding Company and has no trade this is actively promoted via the Sharesave scheme.
Group companies aim to adhere to the payment terms agreed with suppliers.
Payments are contingent on the supplier The Group has a diversity and equal opportunities policy and is providing goods or services to the required standard, and committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees and purchasing is sometimes co-ordinated between Group undertakings.
job applicants irrespective of gender, race, age, religion, disability As at 31 July 2009, the Group had an average of 40 days or sexual orientation.
purchases owed to trade creditors 2008: 42 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the The Groups policy and practice in respect of disabled persons Group by its suppliers in the year to the trade creditors at year-end.
is to encourage the recruitment and subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons and the retention and retraining of employees who become disabled, on the basis of their aptitude and abilities.
Directors Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 40 Mouchel Group plc Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern the Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a accordance with applicable law and regulations.
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to Auditors prepare the Group Financial Statements and the Parent Company Having made enquiries of fellow Directors, each of the Directors Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial who was a member of the Board at the time of approving the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Directors Report confirms that to the best of each Directors Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial knowledge, the Financial Statements have been prepared on Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: foreseeable future, there is no relevant audit information i. e. information needed by the Company and Groups Auditors in select suitable accounting policies and then apply them connection with preparing their Report of which the Company and consistently: Groups Auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to be aware of any and prudent: relevant audit information and to establish that the Company and state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union subject Groups Auditors are aware of that information.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements respectively: Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as Auditors prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue their remuneration will be put to the members at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The AGM of the Company will be held at the offices of RBS, records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 3rd Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the on 11 December 2009 at 10.00am.
The business to be put to the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them shareholders is detailed in the separate Notice of Meeting to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Remuneration accompanying this Report.
Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 16 October 2009 of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors on pages 36 and 37 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group: and the Directors Report which can be found on pages 39 to 41 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Directors Report 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 41 Mouchel Group plc
