Governance Board of Directors n Bo Lerenius Chairman 62 Bo joined the Mouchel Board in January 2009 as a Non-Executive Director and became Chairman on 1 May 2009.
He is currently a Director of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce, a Non-Executive Director of G4S plc, Land Securities Group plc and Thomas Cook Group plc.
Bo is the former Group Chief Executive of Stena Line and Associated British Ports.
Richard Cuthbert Chief Executive 56 Richard joined Parkman Group as Chief Executive in April 2002 and continued in this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He was formerly a senior Director and a member of the Group Executive at WS Atkins plc.
Richard is a Chartered Civil Engineer with extensive experience in the management of consultancy and outsourcing businesses in the UK and overseas.
Kevin Young Group Finance Director 50 Kevin joined Mouchel as Finance Director in 1998 and continued in this role following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
He was formerly Group Financial Controller and Finance Director of the Consumer Logistics Division of Transport Development Group.
Kevin is a Chartered Accountant who qualified and trained with .
n Lynton Barker Non-Executive Director 61 Lynton joined the Mouchel Board in April 2008.
He is currently a Director of St Georges Court Company Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Strategic Thought Group plc.
Lynton was formerly a Director of Hedra Limited previously Hedra plc from 2003 to 2008, and latterly Hedras Chairman before it was acquired by Mouchel in March 2008.
Prior to joining Hedra, Lynton was Head of UK Consultancy for  and a member of their UK main Board and of their European Consultancy Board.
He was a member of Public Services Productivity Panel from 2002 to 2007 and Chairman of the Scientific Services Agencies Board from 2004 to 2007. n Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director 46 Debbie joined Mouchel as an Advisor to the Board in April 2007 and was appointed a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Redrow plc, Luminar plc, NCC plc, H. R. Owen plc, the Office of Government Commerce, a Director of the Recovery Industry Support Charity and a Non-Executive Member of the Board of Communities & Local Government.
Debbie was Managing Director of the RAC Automotive Group and held various commercial and HR management positions at Marks & Spencer.
She has an MBA with distinction, is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development and a Parish Councillor.
Board of Directors 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 36 36 Mouchel Group plc Governance n Ian Knight Non-Executive Director 58 Ian joined the Mouchel Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2001. lan is a Non-Executive Chairman of QDS Environmental Limited, and Non-Executive Director of Morson Group plc.
He was formerly Non-Executive Chairman of Delta Simons Environmental Consultants Limited and Group Treasurer of the Yorkshire Water Group.
n Sir Michael Lyons Non-Executive Director 60 Sir Michael joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director following the merger of Mouchel plc and Parkman Group plc in September 2003.
Sir Michael is Chairman of the BBC Trust and the English Cities Fund.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Wragge & Co and SQW Group Limited.
He has undertaken a series of independent reviews for the Government including the Lyons Review 2004 to 2007 into the future role and funding of Local Government.
Sir Michael was formerly Acting Chairman of the Audit Commission, Non-Executive Director of Central Independent Television Ltd, Chief Executive of Birmingham City Council, Nottinghamshire County Council and Wolverhampton Metropolitan Borough Council.
n Rodney Westhead Senior Independent Director 65 Rodney joined the Board of Parkman Group in June 2001.
Rodney is the Chairman of Clean Air Power Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of AEA Technology plc and Transense Technologies plc.
He was formerly Non-Executive Chairman of Carter and Carter plc, Group Chief Executive of Ricardo plc and a partner at Grant Thornton.
Rodney is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 39 Amanda joined the Group in October 2004.
She was previously Group Company Secretary of WS Atkins plc and a member of their Group Management Board.
Prior to WS Atkins, she worked in the City as Company Secretary for a group of insurance companies.
Amanda is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Board of Directors 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 37 37 Mouchel Group plc Contents 39 Directors Report 42 Corporate Governance Report 46 Remuneration Report 52 Consolidated Income Statement 53 Group and Company Balance Sheets 54 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 55 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 56 Company Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 57 Independent Auditors Report 58 Notes to the Financial Statements 97 Five-year Financial Summary 98 Shareholder Information
