com Directors Report The Directors submit to the members their Annual Report and The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in shares Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages report on Corporate Governance and the Remuneration Report on 31 to 38. pages 28 and 31 respectively, form part of this Directors Report.
Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests in the Principal Activities shares of the Company or in any material contract or arrangement During 2009 the Groups principal activities were the provision of with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
online gaming entertainment to end customers as well as business partners.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Richard Kilsby, Gigi Levy and John Anderson will retire by rotation at statement on pages 2 to 3, the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves to 7 and the Enhanced Business Review on pages 8 to 21. for re-election.
The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 66.
Share Capital Changes in the Companys share capital during the financial year Results are given in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
As at The Groups Profit before tax for the financial year excluding share 31 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised benefit charges of US$7 million of US$35 million is reported in the 346,534,097 ordinary shares of 0.005p each.
Consolidated Income Statement on page 44.
It is the intention of the Directors to declare a final dividend in respect of the financial year in Rights Attaching to Ordinary Shares an amount of 3.0 cents per share.
The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are Directors and their Interests entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to Biographical details of the current Board of Directors are shown on appoint one or more proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The Directors who served during the year are shown below: ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled Richard Kilsby appointed 30 August 2005 and to receive the Companys Annual Report.
Subject to meeting certain reappointed 21 May 2008 thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general Gigi Levy appointed 18 June 2006 and meeting of the Company or the proposal of resolutions at general reappointed 30 May 2007 meetings.
Aviad Kobrine appointed 30 August 2005 and reappointed 21 May 2008 Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights John Anderson appointed 30 August 2005 and Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must reappointed 30 May 2007 be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours Shay Ben-Yitzhak appointed 30 August 2005 and before a general meeting.
reappointed 21 May 2008 Michael Constantine appointed 30 August 2005 and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares and reappointed 20 May 2009 Limitations on Holdings Brian Mattingley appointed 30 August 2005 and There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding reappointed 20 May 2009 of ordinary shares other than under restrictions imposed by law Amos Pickel appointed 14 March 2006 and or regulation for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the reappointed 20 May 2009 Companys share dealing code.
indd 39 30 03 2010 12:34 30 03 2010 12:34 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report continued O Shaked Shares Trust whilst they collectively hold not less than Substantial Shareholdings 7.5% of the issued share capital of 888, and in respect of the As at 31 December 2009 the Company had been notified of the Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust whilst it individually holds not less following interests in 3% or more of its share capital: than 7.5% of the issued share capital of 888.
% Issued Change of Control Number Share Other than the Groups gaming licences where change of control is Principal Shareholder Trust of Shares Capital subject to prior consent, there are no contracts to which the Group E Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.9 is a party which would allow the counterparty to terminate or alter O Shaked Shares Trust 86,283,534 24.9 those contractual arrangements in the event of a change of control of Ben-Yitzhak Family Shares Trust 37,122,358 10.7 the Group.
FIL Limited 34,208,190 9.9 Charitable Contributions Shareholder Agreements and Consent Contributions for charitable purposes were made during the year Requirements amounting to US$124,799 2008: US$107,821.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records A Relationship Agreement governing the relationship between the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial above Principal Shareholder Trusts and the Company was entered position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking into in connection with the Companys flotation.
The Relationship reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Agreement provides that all transactions between the Group and irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report which the Principal Shareholder Trusts will be on a normal business basis, complies with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999, the that the Group will be allowed to carry on business independently Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the of them and that the Principal Shareholder Trusts will not cause the Gibraltar Companies Act.
Company to contravene the Combined Code unless required by law or as contemplated in the Relationship Agreement.
It further Financial statements are published on the Groups website in provides that each of the Principal Shareholder Trusts will not solicit accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation Group employees without consent, that only Independent Directors and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from can vote on proposals to amend the Relationship Agreement, that legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the the Principal Shareholder Trusts will consult the Group prior to Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors disposing of a significant number of shares in order to maintain an responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial orderly market and shall not disclose confidential information unless statements contained therein.
required to do so or having first received the Companys consent.
The Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on the The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Principal Shareholder Trusts power to appoint Directors and includes financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial obligations on the trusts to ensure that the majority of the Board, statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The Principal Shareholder Reporting Standards IFRSs and have also chosen to prepare Trusts can nominate a Non-executive Director for appointment to the financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRSs.
In the event that this right is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being Corporate Governance Independent Directors, such appointment shall only become effective The corporate governance statement is on pages 28 to 30 and is upon the appointment to the Board of an additional Independent incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
Director acceptable to the Nominations Committee.
Such restrictions and obligations apply in respect of the E Shaked Shares Trust and 40 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
com b the Enhanced Business Review, includes a fair review of the Group and Parent Company Financial development and performance of the business and the position Statements of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal statements in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Accounts risks and uncertainties that they face.
Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of BDO LLP and BDO Limited International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the 2010 Annual statements present fairly for each financial year the Group and General Meeting.
Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, During the year ended 31 December 2009 BDO LLP were appointed other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and auditors for the purposes of the Company preparing financial recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set statements as required pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework Authority.
BDO Limited have been appointed to act as auditors for for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In the purposes of issuing an audit report pursuant to Section 10 of virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 to be filed with the compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires Gibraltar Companies Registry.
the Directors to: On behalf of the Board: l consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: l present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and l provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Gigi Levy requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable members to Chief Executive Officer understand the impact of particular transactions, other events 23 March 2010 and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
We confirm, to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 41 17555 30 03 2010 Proof 11 17555888COM.
