Directors Report The directors present their report and Dividends and reserves executive directors who have served a accounts for the 52 weeks ended 28 An interim dividend of 2.78p per share term of more than 9 years on the board February 2009.
2008, 2.65p was paid on the ordinary will be subject to annual re-election.
shares of the company on 11 January Those affected by such a provision Activities and results 2009.
The net cost of this dividend was are, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, The principal activity of the group is 7.5m 2008, 7.2m.
Nigel Alliance OBE and Mr Ivan Fallon.
retailing through direct home shopping.
Accordingly they will retire at the next The activities are more fully explained in The directors recommend a final dividend annual general meeting and, being the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 of 6.41p per share 2008, 6.41p for the eligible, offer themselves for to 17.
Group profit before taxation from 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009, the reappointment at that meeting.
continuing operations for the 52 weeks net cost of which will be 17.6m 2008, ended 28 February 2009 amounted to 17.4m.
The dividend will be paid on In addition, in accordance with the Articles 92.3m 2008, 78.0m.
No geographical 24 July 2009. of Association of the company Ms Anna segmentation is provided as, apart from Ford having been appointed since the last a small operation in the Republic of Movements in reserves are shown in note AGM and Mr Alan White rotation will retire Ireland, all activities take place in the 27 on page 65. at the next annual general meeting and United Kingdom.
being eligible, offer themselves for Acquisitions and disposals reappointment at the meeting.
Enhanced business review For the year under review there were The company is required by the Companies no acquisitions or disposals.
Details of directors interests beneficial Act 2006 to set out in this report a fair and non-beneficial in shares of the review of the business of the group during Share capital company are given in the Remuneration the 52 weeks ended 28 February 2009 and Details of the companys authorised and Report on page 42 and are deemed to the position of the group at the end of that issued share capital are shown in note 23 be incorporated into this report by this period.
The company is also required to set on page 64. cross-reference.
out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group.
The Details of outstanding employee share With regard to the appointment and information fulfilling the above requirements options and the operation of the relevant replacement of directors, the company is can be found within this report, within the schemes are shown in note 32 on page 67. governed by its Articles of Association, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief No person has any special rights over the Combined Code and the Companies Acts.
Executives Review and the Financial companys share capital and all issued The powers of directors are described in Review pages 18 to 19 and is deemed shares are fully paid.
the board terms of reference and the to be incorporated in this report by this Corporate Governance Report on page 27. cross-reference.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting is to be held Directors and officers liabilities The board has a policy of continuously on 7 July 2009.
The notice convening the The group maintains insurance for directors identifying and reviewing key business risks annual general meeting is being sent to and officers of the group, indemnifying and monitors a number of financial and members by way of separate circular them against certain liabilities incurred by non-financial Key Performance Indicators together with full explanatory notes on each them whilst acting on behalf of the group.
which are detailed on page 18 of the resolution to be proposed at the meeting.
The board oversees the Major shareholders development of processes to ensure these Directors In addition to the directors shareholdings risks are managed appropriately and The biographies of the directors, all of shown in the Remuneration Report on page executive directors and operational whom with the exception of Ms Anna Ford 42, the following notifications had been directors are tasked with implementation served throughout the year are shown on received from holders of notifiable interests and oversight of these processes and page 20.
In accordance with the provisions in the companys issued share capital at 30 reporting to the board.
of the Combined Code 2006 those nonApril 2009: Holding % of issued share capital Standard Life Investments 27,242,708 9.94 Aberforth Partners 10,520,754 3.84 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 9,188,982 3.35 Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 8,579,508 3.13 Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Ltd 7,699,068 2.81 22 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report Environmental, social and means of communication in case of ethical of total tonnage produced.
In the last year governance issues concerns regarding the way the group some 2,134 tonnes of waste was recycled operates in its day-to-day activities.
encompassing plastic, card, paper, Governance and risk management No events were reported in the year.
The board is committed to maintaining high Existing recycling contract expanded to standards of corporate governance.
The Environment include bottles glass and plastic, drinks company monitors and evaluates risk on The group recognises its environmental cans and plastic.
an ongoing basis as part of its commitment responsibilities and is committed to New group electricity contract to sustainable business.
Further details are minimising any damage which its activities commenced on 1st October 2008 via contained in the Corporate Governance may cause to the environment.
It has a 100% green energy provider.
Report on pages 27 to 29. delegated specific responsibility for New contract established regarding environmental matters to a nominated eco-friendly disposal of defective Ethics director on each of its principal subsidiary fluorescent tubes and control gear The board regards the achievement boards.
In addition, it actively pursues a consumed by the group.
and maintenance of the highest ethical number of environmental policies, including standards in business as an essential those designed to contain energy costs, The group has prospered from a reduction feature in the way in which the group the recycling of paper and packaging in energy consumption, increased recycling, conducts its business.
A code of ethical materials wherever practical and the use of and large cost avoidances and cost conduct dealing with commercial standards, information technology systems to reduce savings over the last 12 months.
These conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality the level of consumption of paper by its achievements are especially commendable has been circulated to all staff.
The Packaging Waste Directive against a backdrop of an increase in the and employees of the group are required 94 62 EC requires larger companies to volume of activity in the year.
to comply with both the letter and the spirit recover and recycle the packaging waste of the code of ethical conduct in all their that they put into the environment.
The Employees dealings on behalf of the group and group was one of the first organisations - Employee involvement.
The group firmly directors and senior staff are required to file to join the Valpak Organisation, which is believes that continuing success can only a return detailing compliance with the policy a nationwide sustainable recovery and be achieved by an enthusiastic, motivated on gifts and hospitality, online each month.
Consequently, considerable resources are devoted to staff In their dealings with each other, other The groups packaging technologists look training.
Frequent departmental team group companies and their shareholders, at every product sold within the groups briefings are held and an employee customers, suppliers, competitors with publications to ensure its compliance to engagement survey is conducted regularly.
regulatory authorities and the wider European Environmental Law with particular A Consultative Forum operates within the community, employees are required to: emphasis on the Pack Minimisation logistics division where staff from all levels Essential Requirements 1998 Regulations.
contribute and share ideas that help shape conduct all dealings with honesty, the culture of the business.
Over 500 group integrity and fairness: The group adopts a cradle to grave employees either hold shares in the comply with all relevant laws, regulations view on all packaging products used by it.
company or have options awards to acquire them through the groups various share and internal company policy: All packaging components are made from encourage and support a business culture materials and processes causing minimum option and long-term incentive schemes.
which exhibits and promotes ethical harm to the environment when either conduct at all levels within the manufactured, processed, recycled or A large proportion of the groups training and development activity is delivered by our organisation: and eventually disposed of.
All of the groups avoid any situation or action which could paper packaging is made from a minimum in-house learning and development team, which is supplemented by external training cause damage to the groups reputation.
of 70% recycled paper and all other paper is sourced from 100% recyclable papers.
in the technical and IT training arenas.
Directors of all group companies are Wherever practically possible, paper used required to disclose details of related party in the printing of our catalogues and our As well as bespoke courses, there is also a suite of workshops covering a range of transactions for review by the audit packaging materials and processes are committee and by the board.
derived from managed and renewable topics from negotiation skills to effective influencing.
All employees are free to sources accredited by the Forest A register of gifts and benefits offered by, Stewardship Council.
The following request any of these workshops, which encourage them to be proactive and take and to, suppliers and other parties whether environmental mileposts have been accepted or declined is maintained under achieved: ownership of their own skills development.
An online database simply development the control of the head of internal audit.
Summary information is presented to the A 120,000 saving in utilities charges gas has also been designed, enabling employees to access a wide range of selfgroups audit committee.
All employees, and electricity since 2007 08 directed by managers and directors are required, each a significant reduction in electricity development activities and information.
month, to declare any offer of gifts or consumption and lower energy tariffs.
hospitality with a value of 25 or more, Group Carbon footprint profile core In 2009 the company introduced a threetiered approach to the development of its offered, accepted or declined.
emissions has reduced by 135.3 tonnes since 2007 08. leadership population: this includes accredited ILM level 3 & 5 programmes.
The group has drawn up and issued a Total waste levels have reduced by 30% comprehensive whistleblowing policy from 2007 08 levels, with commensurate Executive coaching has also been introduced at a senior management level.
providing employees with an appropriate increase in recycling, now at circa 85% N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Directors Report The MBTI Myers Briggs Type Indicator, welfare at work of its employees and and the right of collective bargaining: TMS and Colours have also been used visitors.
Pre-employment questionnaires, all employees work in safe and hygienic effectively across the business to enhance physiotherapy, audiometry, an improved conditions: there is no child labour: they personal and leadership development, management referral process and receive a living wage: working hours are team building and communication.
rehabilitation programs have enabled not excessive: there are no discriminatory Following the most recent Employee occupational health issues to be better practices: no harsh and inhuman treatment Engagement Survey, the group has controlled.
In addition, all labour, safety and undertaken the roll-out of a 360-degree relevant laws local to the country of feedback process initially across the Cumulative group accidents statistics show manufacture must be observed.
that in the year under review there was a This will support personal development 33% reduction in those incidents requiring This code is mandatory and subject and enable future learning & development statutory reporting under RIDDOR with the to audits.
On average key suppliers are activity to be even more effectively targeted.
groups Reportable Accident Incidence visited approximately 6 times per annum Rate at 269, being the lowest on record by group personnel.
Constructive relationships to date, showing a significant reduction in with the trade unions which represent the major injuries per population of employees.
Community groups employees principally USDAW and As a consequence, in March 2009, the The group believes that it has a SATA are encouraged.
Elements of the group received a Gold Award in ROSPAs responsibility to invest in and support group are covered by a collective Occupational Health & Safety Awards, the communities in which it operates.
recognising its well-developed health & The family, health and well-being safety management systems and culture.
programme, now in its fifth year, is actively - Equal opportunities.
The group supports As a responsible retailer and employer supported, and continues to provide the principle of equal opportunities in we endeavour to ensure that all products additional benefits for all our employees.
employment and is opposed to all forms and services sold by us or used in the The group maintains close links with the of discrimination, including those on the workplace are designed so that they are Christie Hospital in Manchester, the Marie grounds of colour, race, nationality, ethnic safe and without risk in proper use.
Curie Foundation and the Retail Trust.
The or national origin, religion, gender, age, group encourages staff to participate in sexual orientation, marital status or disability.
Customers fundraising activities for these, and other, One of the key factors of the groups worthwhile causes and maximises the Our selection processes for recruitment, success is the quality of its relationship potential donation by matching the level of promotion, training and development are with its customers.
Regular customer money raised by employees to double the non-discriminatory.
We believe it is in the satisfaction surveys are conducted, both size of the donation.
best interests of employees and the group directly and through third parties, to to provide these opportunities to the most ensure that the group closely monitors In the last financial period, via this method, suitable candidates.
In May 2008 the the opinions and requirements of its more than 30,000 was raised for logistics division won the DWF Employers customers.
In addition, telephone noteworthy causes such as Cancer UK Award in the Innovation in Recruitment enquiry and complaint calls received from and MacMillan Nurses.
The group is category, recognising the improvements customers are analysed and appropriate supporting the Many Hands Campaign a dedicated part of Manchesters New that had been made in group recruitment action taken to improve the levels of strategy and processes.
Fund-raising activities to date include donating the Applications for employment by disabled Suppliers proceeds of a substantial toy sale, collecting corporate and staff donations persons are always fully considered, The group sources products and services bearing in mind the aptitudes of the from across the world.
A significant in lieu of sending Christmas cards, and organising a collection at the groups Head applicant concerned.
In the event of any proportion of this expenditure is with employee becoming disabled, every effort suppliers with whom the group has a longOffice Christmas Party in total, more than 5,000 was raised for the Many Hands is made to ensure that their employment term relationship, which helps to provide a with the group continues and that continually improving quality of product and Campaign in a very short period, and further fundraising activity is planned appropriate training is arranged.
It is the service to customers, whilst reducing costs.
policy of the group that the training, career throughout 2009.
In the year under review some 35 separate charitable fundraising development and promotion of disabled It is the groups policy to comply with the persons should, as far as possible, be terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
events were held by employees and sponsored, or participated in, by the group.
identical to that of other employees.
Trade creditors of the group at 28 February 2009 represented 41 days 2008, 41 days Charitable and political donations Each year the group rewards and of purchases.
recognises significant contribution from During the year, the group made charitable donations of 85,211 2008, 114,392. its customer contact centre staff by The group is aware of the potential inviting them to compete for a nomination social impact of its business dealings, No political donations have been made 2008, nil.
to receive an award for outstanding particularly in developing countries.
Our standard conditions of contract, Pension fund for the purchase of all products for - Health and safety.
The groups policy resale require that our suppliers must The group continues to ensure that the N Brown Group Pension Fund is managed is to ensure compliance with all relevant adhere to a code of conduct in respect legislation to ensure, as far as is reasonably to their labour force that includes freedom in accordance with best practice and current legislation, including the Pensions Act 1995. practicable, the health, safety and of employment: freedom of association 24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Report A trustee company, which is controlled by by the company on giving 12 months or not at their discretion in respect of any a board of directors, administers the funds notice.
There are no agreements between shares in the Company held in the relevant assets.
One of these is an independent the company and its directors or employees trust.
The trustees may, upon the professional trustee and the rest have a that provide for additional compensation for recommendation of the Company, accept vested interest in the performance of the loss of office or employment that occurs or reject any offer relating to the shares in fund, representing the interests of pension because of a takeover bid.
No events any way it sees fit, without incurring any fund members, pensioners and N Brown were reported in the year.
liability and without being required to give Group plc.
The funds investments are reasons for its decision.
In exercising their managed by Aberdeen Management Tax status trustee powers the trustees may take all Limited and Legal and General Assurance The company is not a close company within of the following matters into account: Pensions Management Limited and the the meaning of the Income and Corporation actuarial and administration services are Taxes Act 1988.
The long-term interests of beneficiaries: provided by Mercer Human Resource The interests of beneficiaries other than Consulting Limited.
Auditors financial interests: On 1 December 2008, Deloitte and Touche The interests of beneficiaries in their N Brown Group plc and some of its LLP changed its name to Deloitte LLP.
capacity as employees or former associated companies are required to A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as employees or their dependants: indemnify the trustee company and its auditors to the company and to authorise The interests of persons whether or not officers in respect of certain liabilities the directors to fix their remuneration will be identified who may become beneficiaries incurred by them in the performance of their proposed at the annual general meeting on in the future: and obligations relating to the N Brown Pension 7 July 2009.
Consideration of a local, moral, ethical, Fund or in administration of the Fund.
This amounts to a qualifying indemnity Voting rights and restrictions on transfer provision as defined in section 236 of of shares Going concern the Companies Act 2006.
None of the ordinary shares carry any The directors have adopted the going special rights with regard to control of concern basis in the financial statements The N Brown Group Pension Fund was the company.
and their opinion is explained in the closed to new entrants with effect from 31 Financial Review on page 19.
New employees joining the There are no restrictions on transfers group after 31 January 2002 and existing of shares other than: Liability employees who had not joined the N Brown All the information supplied in the Group Pension Fund as at that date, are Certain restrictions which may from time Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 5, the entitled to join a stakeholder pension to time be imposed by laws or regulations Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 17, scheme providing a defined contribution such as those relating to insider dealing: Financial Review on pages 18 to 19, pension arrangement, administered by Pursuant to the companys code for Remuneration Report and the Corporate Prudential Stakeholder Pensions.
securities transactions whereby the Governance Report on pages 27 to 29 form Directors and designated employees part of this Directors Report.
Any liability Further to the arrangement agreed with the require approval to deal in the companys for the information is restricted to the extent Pensions Regulator in January 2007 as part shares: prescribed in the Companies Act 2006. of the companys B share return of value Where a person with an interest in the scheme, the Company paid an extra 4m companys shares has been served with Directors responsibilities into the pension fund during the relevant a disclosure notice and has failed to The directors are responsible for preparing year in reduction of the funding deficit.
provide the company with information the annual report and the financial concerning interests in those shares: statements.
The directors are required to Financial risk management, objectives The company is not aware of any prepare financial statements for the group and policies arrangements between shareholders that in accordance with International Financial The group is exposed to certain financial may result in restrictions on the transfer Reporting Standards IFRS and have risks, namely interest rate risk, currency of securities or voting rights: chosen to prepare company financial risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Information statements in accordance with United regarding such financial risks is detailed The rights and obligations attaching to the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
Company law requires in note 20 on page 61.
The groups risk companys ordinary shares are set out in management policies and procedures are the articles.
the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, UK also discussed in the Financial Review on page 18.
Employee share schemes rights GAAP, the Companies Acts and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of control Change of control The trustees of the N Brown Group plc In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the There are a number of agreements that take Employee Share Ownership Trust and the effect, alter or terminate upon a change of trustees of the N Brown Group plc No.
2 directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which control of the company such as commercial Employee Share Ownership Trust hold contracts, bank loan agreements, property shares on trust for the benefit of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit lease arrangements and employee share executive directors and employees of the plans.
None of these are considered to be group, which are used in connection with or loss of the company for that year.
In preparing these financial statements, significant in terms of their likely impact on the Companys various share incentive the business of the group as a whole.
The trustees currently abstain from the directors are required to: Directors service contracts are terminable voting the shares but have power to vote N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 Directors Report select suitable accounting policies So far as the director is aware, there and then apply them consistently: is no relevant audit information of which make judgements and estimates that the companys auditors are unaware: and are reasonable and prudent: and The directors have taken all the steps state whether applicable accounting they ought to have taken as directors to standards have been followed.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that In the case of IFRS accounts, International the companys auditors are aware of Accounting Standard 1 requires that that information.
financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial This confirmation is given and should be position, financial performance and cash interpreted in accordance with the flows.
This requires the faithful provisions of section 418 of the Companies representation of the effects of transactions, Act 2006. other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria By order of the board for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Philip F Harland LL.
B Hons Solicitor Standards Boards Framework for the Secretary preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, 12 May 2009 a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Responsibility statement Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors We confirm that to the best of our are also required to: knowledge: properly select and apply accounting a The groups financial statements policies: prepared in accordance with International present information, including accounting Financial Reporting Standards as policies, in a manner that provides adopted for use in the European Union, relevant, reliable, comparable and and the companys financial statements, understandable information: and prepared in accordance with UK provide additional disclosures when Accounting Standards, give a true and compliance with the specific requirements fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to position and profit of the company understand the impact of particular and group: transactions, other events and conditions b The management report incorporated on the entitys financial position and into the directors report includes a financial performance.
fair review of the development and performance of the business and the The directors are responsible for keeping position of the company and the proper accounting records which disclose group, together with a description with reasonable accuracy at any time of the principal risk and uncertainties the financial position of the company, that they face.
for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and By order of the board detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report Alan White and directors remuneration report which Chief Executive comply with the requirements of the Companies Acts.
Dean Moore Finance Director The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company 12 May 2009 website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
