Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review U K Bus and Coach Revenue for UK Coach was 242.9 million 2008: 244.7m and normalised operating profit was 34.3 million 2008: 27.0m.
Revenue for UK Bus was 293.9 million 2008: 341.0m and normalised operating profit was 20.8 million 2008: 40.0m.
UK Coach Revenue 242.9m Normalised operating profit 34.3m UK Bus Revenue 293.9m Normalised operating profit 20.8m 18 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Partnerships in UK Bus help develop new services Partnerships involve a joint approach to planning bus services.
Our commercial needs are placed alongside the communitys As a major bus operator, National Express West Midlands social needs.
Open sharing of customer travel patterns helps believes that partnerships with local stakeholders are vital the company achieve change on specific routes and introduce to create the right environment to operate our business new routes to fit changing customer needs for example, to successfully.
In the West Midlands, we work with the local serve new hospitals.
Services are tailored to areas of passenger integrated transport authority, Centro, and seven local authorities growth and to minimise the impact of reducing underutilised to promote public transport across the region.
Since the services in a coordinated way.
Decisions can be difficult but first partnership was launched in 2007 in Walsall and North partnerships make decision making smoother and more open, Birmingham, more formal partnerships have helped develop and allow for coordination of service improvements this has how services are provided including in Dudley, Solihull and included the introduction of new routes, real time information to South Birmingham.
In the dynamic public transport market, working in partnership is key.
UK Bus UK Coach In Coach, the benefits of a strong national network, flexible coach In UK Bus, rising unemployment nearly 10% in the West Midlands supply model and value for money brand positioning were clearly led to a 3% reduction in passenger journeys.
Despite this difficult demonstrated in challenging market conditions as we delivered backdrop, underlying revenue rose 2%, benefiting from stronger a record profit from the business.
The recession cut back on passenger yields.
Total UK Bus revenue of 293.9 million was lower discretionary journeys, and we also saw increased competition than 2008 341.0m due to the sale of London bus operations, from rail, due to new high speed capacity to the North West.
In response, the Coach business delivered strong customer service As forecast, cost pressures during the year were significant.
consistent with its brand values, and used effective and innovative Fuel costs rose by 4.5 million and pensions costs by 3.5 marketing to promote our superior frequency and network coverage million.
Increased labour costs reflected a previous three-year through our multi-channel sales distribution.
Whilst web sales pay deal, agreed during a better economic climate.
The Travel continue to grow, our ability to service traditional ticket office custom London disposal accounted for a 2.3 million reduction in UK Bus remains a key advantage.
normalised operating profit, to 20.8 million 2008: 40.0m.
Following a reduction in demand for air travel, new investment Nevertheless, the business retains its key strengths.
As market in customer facilities at Stansted Airport has radically altered our leader in the West Midlands, we have a strong network, offering presence, actively managing passenger recruitment on services to a high frequency, value for money service to our customers.
Our London and securing a return to revenue growth.
At the same time, strong branded ticketing encourages customer loyalty, whilst multiwith new competition on South Coast routes to London, National operator ticketing supports a competitive market place.
We recently Express services have been expanded, driving over 18% growth renewed our three-year concessionary fares scheme on similar in revenue on these routes.
In Dundee, a new management team has consolidated our position, improving reliability and operational efficiency, although As a result of these successes, Coach passenger volumes declined revenue has been impacted by the economic downturn.
by just 2% in 2009, while underlying passenger revenue increased Cost control programmes have made initial progress.
Improved by 1% on 2008. staffing should drive better productivity.
Alongside this, we Our coach supply model, where 80% of services are run by third have reduced mileage operated by 3%, more readily matching party operators, proved very flexible in meeting changing demand.
consumer demand for services which has been affected by higher The Coach cost saving programme delivered a substantial unemployment.
A review is underway to assess our operational improvement: savings were achieved in scheduled coach hire, footprint.
Fares have been held unchanged to support incremental with fewer duplicate coaches operated, and operating mileage passenger growth and fuel hedges for 2010 are at a lower cost.
We are targeting a further 9 million reduction in operating costs.
Alongside the National Express brand, our other coach businesses We continue to work closely with our regional partners to deliver also achieved success.
Airlinks secured a new five-year contract Safer Travel for customers in urban areas.
Eurolines, our partnership with ALSA and other We are also supporting the review of the bus industry by the European operators, benefited from increased patronage, with Competition Commission, following the referral by the Office of Fair the progressive opening up of European markets likely to benefit Trading in January 2010.
We believe that our markets are effective and in the future.
Our Events business saw increased demand competitive, with over 30 operators overlapping with our West Midlands to Wembley and festivals.
However, reduced private hire and network and over 60% of our passengers travelling on routes served engineering work impacted the Kings Ferry and rail replacement by other operators.
We expect the Commission to report in 2011. businesses respectively.
As a result of a resilient revenue performance and strong cost management, the UK Coach business delivered a 27% increase in normalised operating profit to 34.3 million 2008: 27.0m on continuing revenue of 242.9 million 2008: 244.7m.
