Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review UK Rail Revenue 1,190.5m Normalised operating profit 12.0m UK Rail The c2c franchise provides services between London and south Essex.
Its moving annual average performance PPM reached Revenue for the UK Rail division was 1,190.5 million 96.3% the highest ever for any mainland UK TOC and above the 2008: 1,332.5m and normalised operating profit benchmark Swiss Federal Railways.
This reflected high levels of was 12.0 million 2008: 81.3m.
reliability and the commitment of our staff.
During severe weather in The operation of our UK Rail business in 2009 was dominated by December 2009 and January 2010, we ran a full, scheduled service the return of the East Coast mainline franchise to the Department every day, at 94.6% punctuality.
for Transport DfT in November.
The losses on this franchise had Underlying revenue in c2c grew nearly 4% in 2009, with less a major impact on the financial performance of the rail division, impact than feared from job losses in Londons financial services with revenue 11% lower and normalised operating profit down 85%.
industry, and aggressive marketing of off-peak leisure travel, up East Coast 12% year-on-year.
Under National Expresss management, the East Coast franchise NXEA also delivered its best ever operating performance.
Growth in moved from the bottom to the top of Network Rails long distance underlying revenue slowed to 1%.
However, the franchise benefits operational performance league.
However, the franchise premia from 80% revenue support from the DfT and saw growth from which we had bid to operate the franchise became unsustainable Olympic Park construction.
Cost savings helped improve profitability.
as 2009 unfolded and the recession impacted passenger travel.
The franchise continues to invest through a DfT-funded programme Discussions with the DfT during 2009 to enable us to continue to to ease congestion during rush-hour periods.
But, despite delivering operate the franchise were unsuccessful.
Consequently, the Group all 52 operational criteria, the DfT has decided not to extend the handed it back to the DfT on 13 November 2009, meeting all NXEA franchise.
commitments to that point and ensuring an orderly handover to the government-operated successor.
Our rail future We will operate NXEA and c2c to their normal termination in 2011, East Anglia and c2c after which the Group will cease to have any active rail franchise.
The The headlines for the Rail division do not tell the whole story.
Our Group will focus its future growth on its bus and coach operations.
two remaining rail franchises c2c and National Express East Anglia However, at a time when some rail franchisees are struggling to NXEA delivered a strong operational and financial performance, deliver good customer service, the Group has demonstrated its demonstrating that the Group remains an accomplished railway superior operational capability in rail and we would not discount operator.
The rail division also benefited from claims from previous train future selective and carefully risk-assessed involvement in rail.
operating companies TOCs, albeit at a reduced level from 2008.
