Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities National Express Group PLC is the holding company of the National Express Group of companies.
Its subsidiary companies provide mass passenger transport services in the UK and overseas.
Business review Reviews of the business, likely future developments and details of principal risks and uncertainties as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and paragraph 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority the DTRs can be found in the following pages and are incorporated into this report by reference: Chairmans Review on page 6.
Performance and Financial Review on page 21.
Results and dividends The loss on ordinary activities before tax from continuing operations for the year ended 31 December 2009 was 83.5 million 2008: profit of 109.9m and a loss attributable to equity shareholders of 53.5 million 2008: profit of 118.8m was transferred to reserves.
No final dividend will be paid for the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: 10 pence.
No interim dividend was paid during the year 2008: 12.72 pence.
Directors The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: John Devaney appointed 2 April 2009 Richard Bowker resigned 10 July 2009 Miranda Curtis Jorge Cosmen Roger Devlin Sir Andrew Foster Jez Maiden Ray OToole Tim Score Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must be put up for appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
One-third of the Directors, or the number nearest to but not exceeding one-third, must retire from office at each Annual General Meeting.
A retiring Director is eligible to stand for re-appointment.
Any Director who has held office for three years or more since their last appointment must retire and offer themselves for re-appointment.
In accordance with the above provisions Sir Andrew Foster and Tim Score will retire by rotation at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Bowker resigned as a Director of the Company on 10 July 2009.
Dean Finch will stand for election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting following his appointment to the Board on 15 February 2010.
The names and biographies of the current Directors appear on page 28.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 42.
Directors interests in contracts Except as stated in note 36 on page 119, no contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys business in which any Director was materially interested.
Directors Liability Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought against its Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association the Company has indemnified its Directors and Officers in accordance with the provisions of Section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
30 National Express Group PLC Employment policies The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers and continually improve operational performance.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to employees and potential employees.
This applies to appropriate training, career development and promotion for all employees, regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
All UK businesses report diversity data.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment received from disabled persons, according to their skills and capabilities.
The services of any existing employee disabled during their period of employment are retained wherever possible.
Employee involvement The Group encourages employee involvement in its affairs.
Subsidiary companies produce a range of internal newsletters and circulars which keep employees abreast of developments.
Senior management within the Group meet regularly to review strategic developments.
Dialogue takes place regularly with Trade Unions and other employee representatives on a wide range of issues.
Employees are able to share in the Groups results through various employee share schemes.
Employee satisfaction is tracked through employee surveys.
Following each survey the results are shared with all employees and comprehensive action plans are put in place in response to these.
The last survey was held in 2008 and it is expected that a further survey will be undertaken in 2010.
Environmental policy Information on the Groups environmental initiatives can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 26 and in the separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is published later in the year on the Companys website, www.
Charitable and political contributions Charitable donations made during the year totalled 187,000 2008: 366,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly none were made in the year.
However the Company did attend and sponsor various political events during the year for which total expenditure was 11,000 2008: 13,000.
Creditors payment policy and practice It is the Companys policy to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with any supplier and to abide by those terms based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
Trade creditor days of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 20 days 2008: 21 days based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Financial instruments Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of financial instruments can be found in the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts on pages 104 to 107.
Major shareholdings As at 25 February 2010 the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company: Percentage of Ordinary shares share capital Nature of holding BlackRock Inc 24,089,268 4.72% Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 27,210,272 5.34% Direct UBS Investment Bank 27,897,072 5.47% Direct Elliott International LP Liverpool Ltd Partnership 56,070,110 10.99% Direct Prudential PLC 69,388,351 13.60% Direct European Express Enterprises Ltd 87,836,348 17.22% Direct Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 15 December 2009 of 510,057,338.
The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown on page 51 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
National Express Group PLC 31 Directors Report continued Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
During the year the Company announced a Rights Issue on the basis of seven new shares for every three shares held on 24 November 2009, at a subscription price of 105 pence per share.
Further details of the Rights Issue are set out in note 32 to the Financial Statements on page 108.
At 31 December 2009, the Companys issued share capital consisted of a single class of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 5 pence.
At a general meeting of the Company every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company and details of shares issued during the year can be found in note 32.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or she or any person with an interest in his or her shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or she or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant Section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in shares of that class from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise all powers to allot shares and approve a limited disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
Details are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this document.
The Company was granted authority at the AGM in 2009 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
The authority was not used during the year.
The authority is renewed annually and approval will be sought at the AGM in 2010 for its renewal.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this document.
As at 25 February 2010 the Company held a total of 1,668,688 ordinary 5 pence shares nominal value 83,434 in treasury equal to 0.33% of the issued share capital.
Share schemes The IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the National Express Group Employee Benefit Trust, as at 25 February 2010 held 0.22% of the share capital of the Company for employee share schemes.
Further details of the Companys employee share schemes can be found in note 7 on page 76.
The Trustee may vote the shares held by the Trust at its discretion.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 5 May 2010 at the Glaziers Hall in London.
At the meeting special resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Directors to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights and to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Following the implementation of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, special resolutions are also proposed to authorise the calling of general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice and to make certain amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to bring them in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Full details are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
If you would like to register any question you may have in advance of the AGM you can do so at info@nationalexpress.
com or you can write to the Company Secretary at National Express Group PLC, 7 Triton Square, London NW1 3HG.
32 National Express Group PLC Powers of the Directors Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to any direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Material contracts and change of control agreements The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which allow for notification of change of control within five days of becoming aware of the event following which repayment of outstanding commitments is to be made within 30 days.
Under the terms of the 1,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which the Company issued Medium Term Notes MTNs to various institutions on 7 January 2010 there is a change of control put option such that, upon a change of control event, any holder of any MTN may require the Company to redeem or purchase that MTN.
The Groups UK rail portfolio currently comprises two DfT franchises: National Express East Anglia and c2c.
Each rail franchise agreement with DfT contains termination rights for the benefit of DfT which would be triggered by a change of control in National Express Group PLC.
The Groups rail franchisees lease their rolling stock.
All of National Express East Anglias rolling stock leases with HSBC Rail UK Limited and its more significant leases with Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited contain termination rights for the benefit of the lessor which would be triggered by a change of control in National Express Group PLC.
The Groups North American business operates school bus services under contracts with school boards.
Those contracts invariably contain a change of control clause for the benefit of the board which would be triggered by a change of control in National Express Group PLC.
While no one single school bus contract could be considered significant in the context of the Group turnover, the impact on that turnover in the event that each school board exercised its termination right on a change of control would be significant.
Directors and employees service contracts Ray OToole has a provision in his service contract which provides that, where the Company initiates a termination other than for cause, within six months of a change of control taking place, the Company will exercise its option to make a payment in lieu of notice of an amount equal to salary and benefits that the Director would have received during the notice period.
Dean Finch has a provision in his service contract which provides that if there is a change of control within 24 months of his commencement date and directly or indirectly in connection with it the Company initiates a termination other than for cause, or Dean Finch serves notice of termination on the Company on account of provable constructive dismissal, then the period of notice required from the Company will increase from 12 months to 24 months.
There are no other agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditors Resolutions to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Details of borrowings, liquidity risks and committed facilities can be found in notes 29 and 30 to the Group financial statements and in the OFR.
National Express Group PLC 33 Directors Report continued Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union or, in the case of the Companys accounts, UK GAAP.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information and accounting policies in a manner that provides relevant, reliable and comparable information: provide additional disclosures where necessary to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company and the Group have complied with applicable accounting standards, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The Directors confirm that these accounts comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR 4 The Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: a the financial statements set out in pages 56 to 134, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union or, in the case of the Companys accounts, UK GAAP, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and b the OFR on page 6 contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Tony McDonald Secretary 25 February 2010 34 National Express Group PLC
