Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board of Directors 01 06 02 07 03 08 04 09 05 10 28 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements 01 John Devaney 06 Tim Score Chairman Senior Independent Director # John Devaney was appointed Chairman in April 2009.
He has Tim Score was appointed to the Board in February 2005 and acted managed businesses across Europe, the UK, Canada, USA and as Interim Chairman between December 2008 and April 2009.
His previous roles include Chairman of Kelsey Hayes part is Chief Financial Officer at ARM Holdings plc.
Before joining ARM of Varity Corporation, Eastern Group, Exel and Telent and Nonhe worked as Finance Director of Rebus Group Limited which he Executive Director of HSBC Bank plc, Ocean Group and British joined in 1999.
Between 1997 and 1999, he was Group Finance Steel.
He has recently been appointed as a Non-Executive Director Director of William Baird plc, which he joined from LucasVarity plc.
of Cobham Plc and is currently Chairman of National Air Traffic He is a chartered accountant.
Services Ltd and Tersus Energy Plc.
07 Roger Devlin 02 Dean Finch Non-Executive Director # Group Chief Executive Roger Devlin was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007.
Dean Finch joined National Express as Group Chief Executive on Roger spent 13 years as a Director of Hill Samuel where he was 15 February 2010.
Prior to joining National Express, Dean was head of Mergers and Acquisitions and Chief Executive of their US Group Chief Executive of Tube Lines from June 2009.
Before that investment banking operations.
He then moved to Ladbrokes, later Dean worked for over ten years in senior roles within FirstGroup plc.
Hilton PLC, as Group Corporate Development Director.
He now He joined FirstGroup plc in 1999 having qualified as a Chartered chairs three private equity businesses on behalf of Permira and Accountant with KPMG, where he worked for 12 years specialising Isis, all active in the leisure and hospitality fields.
He is also Chairman in Corporate Transaction Support Services, including working for of Satellite Information Systems and Senior Independent Director the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on the privatisation of train of RPS Group Plc, Europes leading environmental consultancy.
At FirstGroup, he was Managing Director of Aged 52. the Rail Division from 2000-2004 and then was appointed to the 08 Sir Andrew Foster main board as Group Commercial Director in 2004, before being made Group Finance Director.
With the completion of the Laidlaw Non-Executive Director acquisition he became Chief Operating Officer in North America Sir Andrew was appointed to the Board in August 2004.
He has before returning to the UK as Group Chief Operating Officer.
had an extensive career in the public sector, having served as Aged 43.
Chief Executive of the Audit Commission for England and Wales between 1992 and 2003.
Before this, he was Deputy Chief 03 Ray OToole Executive of the NHS and Regional CEO for Yorkshire.
He is Chief Operating Officer currently Deputy Chairman of the Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ray OToole joined the Board in November 1999 as Chief Limited, Chairman of Commonwealth Games England and Operating Officer.
From January 2008, Ray became Chief Chairman of the Commission on 2020 Public Services.
He also Executive of all our UK operations.
He has 30 years operational holds several Non-Executive Directorships, including Nestor Health experience in transport.
He spent the early part of his career in Care and PruHealth.
Sir Andrew was recently appointed to lead various engineering management positions at Greater Manchester an independent review into the governments Building Colleges for Passenger Transport Executive.
Ray joined National Express from the Future programme, having led two previous reviews into further FirstGroup plc, where he was responsible for its operations in education and the future of athletics.
Yorkshire and the North West as both Divisional Director and 09 Miranda Curtis Group Engineering Director.
Non-Executive Director # 04 Jez Maiden Miranda Curtis was appointed to the Board in June 2008.
She Group Finance Director is an Executive Officer of Liberty Global Inc Denver, Colorado, Jez Maiden joined the Board in November 2008.
He was formerly President of Liberty Global Japan and a director of Jupiter Chief Finance Officer at Northern Foods plc.
Prior to that, he was Telecommunications Limited J:COM in Tokyo.
She has also served Group Finance Director of British Vita plc, Director of Finance of on the boards of Liberty subsidiaries in Singapore, Ireland, France Britannia Building Society and Group Finance Director of Hickson and Spain.
She is a Trustee and member of the Board of Governors International plc.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of of the Institute for Government.
Between 1998 and 2002 she was Yule Catto & Co plc and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute a Non-Executive Director of Telewest Communications plc and of Management Accountants.
Aged 48. between 1998 and 2000 a Non-Executive Director of Flextech plc.
05 Jorge Cosmen 10 Tony McDonald Deputy Chairman Jorge Cosmen was appointed to the Board in December 2005 Company Secretary at the time of the ALSA transaction.
He was appointed Deputy Tony McDonald was appointed Company Secretary in May 2000.
He was Corporate Manager for the Prior to joining the Group, he held senior legal positions with the ALSA Group from 1995, becoming Chairman in 1999.
Between in-house legal teams at Guardian Royal Exchange and BP and in 1986 and 1995, he worked in sales, distribution and banking.
He is private practice with Slaughter and May.
a Business Administration graduate and has an International MBA Aged 49. from the Instituto fide Empresa in Madrid.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee # Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Safety and Environment Committee 29 National Express Group PLC
