Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review N orth America Revenue for North America was 444.5 million 2008: 372.5m and normalised operating profit was 25.3 million 2008: 32.5m.
In local currency, revenue was US$695.0 million 2008: US$690.5m and normalised operating profit was US$39.6 million 2008: US$60.3m.
Revenue 444.5m Normalised operating profit 25.3m 16 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Transforming our North American operations efficiency in a competitive market place.
Several elements have already yielded benefits duplication and activity has been Our transformation programme in North America has three removed from the 165 field locations: driver recruitment has core elements: been centralised, improving recruitment costs and retention centralisation consolidating activities previously carried out in rates: customer billing and payroll has been moved onto a single local field offices in order to harness efficiency and reduce cost: IT platform, driving improved reliability and cash collection: and standardisation adopting a single approach and process maintenance depots have been consolidated.
across North America to the way we do things, to share But programmes of this nature have a degree of trial.
And best practice and deliver a single solution to customers and some of our pilot activities have shown that not all the hoped employees alike: and for benefits will be realisable.
For example, the on-bus system optimisation improving the way we utilise our fleet and to centralise despatch has proved too complex and has been reducing cost and investment needs.
And too much cost was being added at the centre to deliver the benefits.
Refining our programme in this way The programme recognised that the decentralised approach will deliver a better result operationally and help achieve of the business, which had been built up through many our goal of US$40 million of cost savings by 2011. acquisitions, needed to change to drive better service and cost 2009 profitability was also negatively impacted by higher fuel costs, North America delivered modest revenue growth in the reflecting global market conditions at the time of hedging in 2008. year, with underlying revenue up nearly 2%, and once again This added US$9 million on a constant volume basis.
Investment achieved good contract retention at over 90%.
However, in depreciation and leasing added US$5 million, reflecting recent overall, this was not a strong year, with operating profit investments.
However, we have made some significant cost declining from 32.5 million in 2008 to 25.3 million in 2009. improvements, such as in the management of driver wages, our We won 19 new contracts in 2009, worth US$30 million annually, largest single cost area.
2009 saw a US$7 million improvement gaining over 500 additional routes.
But we also lost, or resigned due in costs on a constant volume basis.
to poor margin levels, 24 contracts, reducing our overall network by over 500 routes.
Competition was strong and we had to balance We remain convinced of the attractions of this market, with achieving sensible contract margins with retaining market share.
pressures on education budgets promoting outsourcing: currently The 2009 bid season was also characterised by increased interest only one third of buses are outsourced.
Children continue to go in outsourcing of contracts by school boards who currently operate to school, despite the recession.
Medium-term contracts provide in-house however, there was very little actual conversion.
suppliers with protection from revenue risk.
As school boards convert to outsourcing, the market can grow, offsetting margin Profit in local currency terms was significantly lower than 2008, pressures in the existing market.
primarily due to higher fuel costs and continued double running costs and infrastructure investment associated with having parallel During 2010, our performance will improve as a result of the actions centralised and distributed field service costs, as part of our we have taken and further initiatives currently being assessed.
our recovery programme has been targeted on the most effective delivery areas.
Secondly, we have made senior management A thorough review of the project has identified changes to its scope changes, driving a greater operational focus.
We are in the process which will allow greater focus on cost efficiency and value-adding of consolidating all centralised operations and management in aspects going forward.
This recovery programme will allow us to Chicago, closing two existing centres.
We are committed to restoring remove some short-term cost increases where non-driver wage margins, while further improving services for our customers.
costs, together with facility and infrastructure costs, rose by US$13 million in 2009.
The programme will help us to deliver greater efficiency, and the changes in scope will allow double running costs to be eliminated from 2010.
We are targeting a US$40 million reduction in the overall cost base by 2011, compared to 2009 performance.
For more information on the Group visit www.
com 17 National Express Group PLC
