Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Divisional review Spain Revenue for Spain was 546.8 million 2008: 483.1m and normalised operating profit was 76.5 million 2008: 83.3m.
In local currency, revenue was 612.9 million 2008: 608.5m and normalised operating profit was 85.7 million 2008: 105.0m.
Revenue 546.8m Normalised operating profit 76.5m 14 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Spanish concessions provide long-term stability ALSA has 26 national, 137 regional and 24 urban concessions.
During 2009, 61 of ALSAs regional concessions were extended For many customers in Spain, the bus and coach market is by agreement, representing 92 million of annual revenue.
With an essential public service, even though many of its operators, a strong track record of customer service and performance, like ALSA, are privately run.
Bus and coach have a greater ALSA routinely wins and renews concessions.
Pressure on city market share in Spain than in many countries, with rail travel less council budgets may see future outsourcing to private operators, developed.
ALSA leads the way, with the largest share of the whilst deregulation in Europe drives greater interest in the privately operated coach market.
The concession system in Spain provides for long-term investment.
Each concession is granted for a given route or area, on an exclusive basis, typically for up to 15 years.
Prices are regulated and the stability of operation allows us to invest in improved services and fleet.
Selective organic growth continues despite the recession.
Non- 2009 saw an 8% reduction in Sterling profitability in our ALSA regulated business, such as school and company transport, grew, business in Spain.
In a challenging economic environment, as did the event business.
2009 also benefited from the first full year this was a creditable performance by a robust business.
of the Bilbao urban business acquisition.
After many years of rapid economic growth, Spain has been impacted by the global recession.
Spain is not expected to emerge ALSA operations in Morocco continued to grow and now account from recession until the end of 2010 and unemployment is close to for 5% of the divisions profitability.
ALSA has provided urban bus 20%.
The recession has impacted our ALSA business, particularly services in Marrakech since 1999 and in December won a similar in discretionary and leisure travel, with underlying revenue 5% lower.
contract for the city of Agadir, expected to add 16 million of revenue from 2011.
Morocco is a stable and attractive market with Nevertheless, as the largest private bus and coach operator in significant growth potential, as a result of an increasing population Spain, ALSA has the resources, scale and management expertise and improving economic outlook.
to continue to prosper in a more challenging economic environment.
In line with Group strategy, the Spanish business was successful at ALSAs experience both within and outside Spain is also proving maximising cash generation in 2009, delivering greater cost savings attractive to potential partners and customers.
Over time, more urban and both protecting and selectively growing revenue.
bus services in Spain are expected to be outsourced.
New business opportunities for example, growth in urban tramways will provide ALSAs strength across long distance, regional and urban travel was new tendering opportunities.
ALSA Rail already manages a tramway key to protecting performance in 2009.
Long distance was hardest in Mlaga and helps manage the Madrid Light Railway.
Transport hit, with underlying revenue 8% lower than 2008.
By contrast, urban development in the Middle East and changes to regulation across operations saw underlying revenue remain flat.
Revenue on regional much of Europe are also expected to create new opportunities.
concessions was mixed, dependant on local economic conditions, with Asturias and Andalucia hardest hit.
While 2010 promises to provide another difficult economic backdrop, ALSA will continue to adapt to its markets, drive cost Operating in a stable regulatory framework allows ALSA to plan efficiency while benefiting from cheaper fuel hedges, and explore for the long term, whilst retaining short-term flexibility in service new growth opportunities.
During 2009, 80% of the countrys regional concessions were extended to periods between 2019 and 2034, benefiting the majority of ALSAs routes and allowing plans to be made for further long-term investment in services and fleet.
None of the Groups Spanish concessions is due for renewal until 2012 2013.
Competition from high speed rail continued on the Barcelona and Len corridors to Madrid.
However, these represent only 5% of ALSAs revenues.
The next high speed development is on corridors where ALSA has less exposure and the implementation of new EU rules from July 2010 will see rail ticket prices set without subsidy.
ALSA has continued to invest in service improvements with a 25% increase in its premium class services which provide higher margins.
By contrast, for value-seeking customers, a Friendly Fare offer was launched to mitigate the effects of the recession.
Buying tickets was made much easier web sales grew rapidly, three million passenger journeys were made using reservations sent by text message and we started selling tickets through 8,000 bank cash machines: all supported by ALSAs first TV advertising campaign.
ALSA was very successful at managing down costs in 2009.
20 million of annualised cost savings were delivered in total, including people, procurement and fleet savings.
During the year, a 5% reduction in kilometres operated was achieved, as ALSA adapted to reduced demand.
All of this has been achieved while improving safety there was a 15% reduction in the total number of accidents and increasing customer satisfaction scores.
