About regulatory accounting statements About regulatory accounting statements Relationship of regulatory accounting statements with statutory National Grid Gas plc is the holder of two gas transporter licences: one in respect of its gas accounts transmission NTS business and one in respect of its gas distribution network DN The financial information contained in these regulatory accounting statements does not businesses.
Under Standard Special Condition A30 of each of these licences, NGG is required constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985. to prepare and publish annual regulatory accounting statements setting out the financial Statutory accounts for National Grid Gas plc for the year ended 31 March 2009, to which the position and performance of each of the regulatory businesses covered by that licence.
financial information relates, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
These NTS regulatory accounting statements are in respect of NGGs NTS business, including The Auditors have made a report under Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 on those its LNG storage business.
NGG also prepares and publishes regulatory accounting statements statutory accounts which was unqualified and did not contain a statement under Section 237 2 in respect of its DN businesses, including its metering businesses.
Together, these two sets of or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors opinion on the National Grid Gas plc statutory regulatory accounting statements must comprise all the businesses and activities of NGG.
accounts is addressed to, and for the benefit of, the members of National Grid Gas plc and not for any other person or purpose.
The auditors have clarified, in giving their opinion on those Reconciliations between certain financial information included in these NTS regulatory statutory accounts, that it has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a accounting statements and the equivalent financial information for NGG as a whole, are body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
In provided in note 1 to these NTS regulatory accounting statements.
giving their opinion, they do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Scope of the NTS regulatory accounting statements other person to whom their audit report on the statutory accounts is shown or into whose hands These NTS regulatory accounting statements are in respect of the following regulatory it may come save where expressly agreed by their prior consent in writing.
businesses of National Grid Gas plc: The statutory accounts of National Grid Gas plc can be obtained from the Company Secretarys Office, National Grid plc, 1-3 The Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
the NTS business: the LNG storage business: and Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting statements fide-minimis and other activities associated with these businesses These regulatory accounting statements contain arbitrary apportionments of certain revenues, These regulatory businesses are collectively the gas transmission business.
costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity which are not specifically attributable to the businesses and activities reported in these regulatory accounting statements, but which, Further information about these businesses can be found in the Operating and Financial nevertheless, are required by the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory Review on page 2. accounting statements are prepared, to be reported against those businesses and activities.
The regulatory businesses reported on in regulatory accounting statements are defined in Further details of these items are provided in the Basis of preparation on page 34. accordance with the gas transporter licence under which the regulatory accounting statements The bases used to allocate the revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and shareholders equity of are prepared and differ in some respects from the business definitions used in NGGs annual NGG to the businesses reported on in these regulatory accounting statements have been report and accounts.
determined in accordance with the requirements of the gas transporter licence under which these regulatory accounting statements have been prepared.
These bases may differ from those used to determine the segmental analysis provided in the annual report and accounts of National Grid Gas plc.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09 1
