Directors Report The information in this Directors Report does not comprise a Directors Report within the Research and development meaning of the Companies Acts, UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Expenditure on research and development was 3.9 million during the year 2008: 2.1 million.
Such a report for National Grid Gas plc is included within that companys annual report and accounts.
Financial instruments Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk management are included on As the transmission businesses reported on within these regulatory accounting statements do pages 19 to 21 in the Operating and Financial Review.
not comprise a legal entity, the following information is provided for National Grid Gas as a whole.
Future developments Details on future developments are contained in the Operating and Financial Review.
Further details of matters required to be included in a Directors Report are incorporated by reference into this report, as detailed below.
Disability Through National Grids inclusion and diversity programme, NGG remains committed to fair Directors of National Grid Gas plc treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career The Directors serving as at the date of this report were: development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 to continue in their existing job due to disability.
Mark Fairbairn Appointed June 2003 Employee involvement Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2008 NGG, as a part of National Grid, has well established and effective arrangements through Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 electronic mail, intranet and in-house publications and briefing meetings, at each business Adam Wiltshire Appointed June 2006 location and company wide, for communication and consultation with both employees and trade Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 union representatives, and for communication of performance, strategy and operating model, The following also served as a Director during the period: Andy Chapman who resigned on 7 together with significant business issues.
NGG recognises the importance of aligning employee and shareholder interests, and is Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and qualifying third party committed to employee share ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Plan indemnities are in place for each Director.
and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
Principal activities and business review Policy and practice on payment of creditors The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year were the It is NGGs policy to include in contracts or other agreements, terms of payment with suppliers.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services.
A full Once agreed, the NGG aims to abide by these terms of payment.
description of the gas transmission business and its principal risks and uncertainties, is The average creditor payment period at 31 March 2009 was 16 days 2008: 22 days contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 25, and are incorporated by reference into this report.
Audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in office at the date of the signing Material interests in shares this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of National Grid Gas Holdings and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant Limited.
The ultimate parent company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Dividends On behalf of the Board During the year, an interim dividends totalling 300 million was paid 2008: 500 million interim dividends.
The Directors have not proposed a final dividend.
Donations During 2008 09, some 2.7 million 2008: 3.0 million million was invested in support of S Humphreys Director, 29 July 2009 community initiatives and relationships in the UK, including direct charitable donations of 0.4 million 2008: 0.4 million.
No donations were made in the UK and EU for the purposes of the National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Registered in England and Wales No.
2006000 30 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09
