Directors Report The information in this Directors Report does not comprise a Directors Report within the Research and Development meaning of the Companies Acts, UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Expenditure on research and development was 3.9 million during the year 2008: 2.1 million.
Such a report for National Grid Gas plc is included within that companys annual report Financial instruments and accounts.
Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk management are included on As the gas distribution and metering businesses reported on within these regulatory accounting pages 21 to 24 in the Operating and Financial Review.
statements do not comprise a legal entity, the following information is provided for National Grid Post balance sheet events Gas plc as a whole.
On 29 April 2009, the Competition Appeal Tribunal announced its decision not to uphold in full Further details of matters required to be included in a Directors Report are incorporated by Ofgems 2008 decision in relation to metering contracts.
Further information is provided in the Operating and Financial Review on page 24. reference into this report, as detailed below.
Directors of National Grid Gas plc Disability The Directors serving as at the date of this report were: Through National Grids inclusion and diversity programme, NGG remains committed to fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career Malcolm Cooper Appointed June 2007 development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable Mark Fairbairn Appointed June 2003 to continue in their existing job due to disability.
Stuart Humphreys Appointed July 2008 Paul Whittaker Appointed June 2007 Employee involvement Adam Wiltshire Appointed June 2006 NGG, as a part of National Grid, has well established and effective arrangements through Nick Winser Appointed July 2003 electronic mail, intranet and in-house publications and briefing meetings, at each business location and company wide, for communication and consultation with both employees and trade The following also served as a Director during the period: Andy Chapman who resigned on 7 union representatives, and for communication of performance, strategy and operating model, July 2008. together with significant business issues.
Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is arranged and qualifying third party NGG recognises the importance of aligning employee and shareholder interests, and is indemnities are in place for each Director.
committed to employee share ownership through the National Grid plc Share Incentive Plan Principal activities and business review and Sharesave scheme, which are open to all employees.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the year were the Policy and practice on payment of creditors transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services.
A full It is NGGs policy to include in contracts or other agreements, terms of payment with suppliers.
description of the gas distribution and metering businesses, and their principal risks and Once agreed, the NGG aims to abide by these terms of payment.
uncertainties, is contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 27 and are incorporated by reference into this report.
The average creditor payment period at 31 March 2009 was 16 days 2008: 22 days.
Material interests in shares Audit information National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of National Grid Gas Holdings Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in office at the date of signing of Limited.
The ultimate parent company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant Dividends audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
During the year, an interim dividend of 300 million was paid 2008: two interim dividends totalling 500m.
The Directors have not proposed a final dividend.
On behalf of the Board Donations During 2008 09, some 2.7 million 2008: 3.0 million was invested in support of community S Humphreys Director, 29 July 2009 initiatives and relationships in the UK, including direct charitable donations of 0.5 million 2008: 0.4 million.
No donations were made in the UK and EU for the purposes of the National Grid Gas plc, 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Registered in England and Wales No.
2006000 32 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2008 09
