Directors and Officers CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Barton Jonathan Dawson, Senior Independent Non-executive Director Aged 64 Aged 57 Became a member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed Deputy Became a member of the Board in 2004.
He is also a non-executive Chairman in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
He is also Chairman of Brit director of National Australia Group Europe Ltd and a partner in Insurance Holdings plc and a non-executive director of WH Smith plc Penfida Partners LLP.
Previous experience includes eight years in the and Cable and Wireless plc.
Formerly Chief Executive of JIB Group plc Ministry of Defence and over twenty years in investment banking and Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Wellington with Lazard.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Steve Barber Aged 57 Simon Wolfson, Chief Executive Became a member of the Board in June 2007.
He is also a nonAged 41 executive director of Palladian Group the owner of Whitehead Joined the Group in 1991.
Appointed Retail Sales Director in 1993, Mann and was formerly finance director of Mirror Group.
Previous became responsible for Next Directory in 1995 and was appointed to experience includes almost thirty years in the accountancy profession, the Board in 1997 with additional responsibilities for systems.
principally with Price Waterhouse where he was a senior partner.
Appointed Managing Director of the Next Brand in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2001.
Nick Brookes Christos Angelides, Group Product Director Aged 58 Aged 45 Became a member of the Board in 2003.
He is also a non-executive Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed General Manager of director of business law firm Bond Pearce LLP.
He has held a number Nexts sourcing office in Hong Kong in 1989, Menswear Product of directorships within the British American Tobacco Plc group, was Director in 1994 and Womenswear Product Director in 1998.
Company Secretary and most recently Regional Director, America Appointed to the Board in 2000.
Previous experience includes a career in the legal profession and operational roles in Africa and the USA.
David Keens, Group Finance Director Aged 55 Joined the Group in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1991.
Previous experience includes seven years in the accountancy Christine Cross profession and nine years in the UK and overseas operations of multiAged 57 national manufacturers of consumer goods.
Became a member of the Board in 2005.
She is also a non-executive director of Premier Foods plc and Empire Co. Ltd Canada, a member Andrew Varley, Group Property Director of the Advisory Panel of  and a retail advisor Aged 58 to Apax Partners.
Previous experience includes fourteen years at Joined the Group in 1985 and was appointed to the Board in 1990.
Tesco plc and fifteen years lecturing and consulting at Edinburgh and Previous experience includes twelve years in retail and commercial Bath Universities.
BOARD COMMITTEES Company Secretary A J R McKinlay Audit Committee S D Barber Committee Chairman N G Brookes Registered Office C Cross Desford Road, Enderby, J D S Dawson Leicester, LE19 4AT This committee reviews the Groups internal control, risk Registered in England, no.
Remuneration Committee Registrars J D S Dawson Committee Chairman Equiniti, S D Barber Aspect House, Spencer Road, R J O Barton Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA N G Brookes C Cross This committee sets the remuneration of the Groups executive Auditors directors.
Ernst & Young LLP Nomination Committee R J O Barton Committee Chairman Investment Bankers S D Barber Goldman Sachs International N G Brookes C Cross J D S Dawson Stockbrokers This committee considers the appointment of the Groups directors.
