Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 53 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Other statutory and regulatory information Principal activity Indemnity of directors and officers The principal activity of Northern Foods remains unchanged as The Companys Articles include provisions for the indemnity one of the UKs leading food producers, manufacturing a mix of of directors, the company secretary and other officers of own label and branded products for retailers.
Reporting under the Company to the extent permitted by law.
This permits the three divisions: Chilled, Frozen and Bakery, the Group operates Company to provide indemnities to cover defence costs in civil in five businesses primarily producing chilled Ready Meals, chilled and criminal proceedings.
The director, employee or officer would Sandwiches & Salads, Biscuits, Puddings, Pizza, Pastry, Meat and still be liable to pay damages and to repay defence costs to the Meat-free Grills.
Company if his her defence was unsuccessful.
The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Dividends Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their An interim dividend of 1.55 pence per share was paid to capacity as directors of the Company or associated companies.
shareholders on 30 January 2009 and the directors recommend These provisions are qualifying third party indemnity provisions a final dividend of 2.95 pence per share, subject to shareholders for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in approval, which will be paid on 28 August 2009 to shareholders force at the date of approval of this report.
Copies of the deeds on the register on 31 July 2009.
The total dividend in respect of indemnity are available to shareholders at the Companys of the year amounts to 4.50 pence per share 2007 08: 4.50p.
In accordance with IFRS the final dividend has not been accrued in the results to 28 March 2009.
Structure of share capital As at 28 March 2009, the Companys authorised share capital Directors comprises ordinary shares of 25 pence each nominal value.
The following were directors of the Company during the year: All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up S Barden and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to them, R J S Bell in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out A M Booker appointed 17 November 2008 in the Articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from A J Hobson the company secretary.
A K Illsley J K Maiden resigned 14 November 2008 Details of the issued, ordinary share capital of the Company O G Ni-Chionna and movements during the year are set out in note 28 to the D T Nish Consolidated financial statements.
During both the current and non-executive directors prior period, the Company did not issue any shares.
Directors biographical details are set out on page 32.
Rights and obligations of ordinary shares On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of ordinary Appointment and replacement of directors shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary and on page 34 of the Corporate governance section of this share held.
Subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the report.
Under the Articles, and the provisions of the Combined Articles, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where Code on Corporate Governance, any director appointed to the declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Board must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting following their appointment and directors are required to Treasury shares stand for re-election in the third calendar year following the year of As at the date of this report 45,461,961 ordinary shares were held their appointment.
Under these provisions A M Booker is required in treasury.
The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance to stand for election and S Barden and R J S Bell for re-election with Companies Acts and, in particular, the voting rights attaching at this years Annual general meeting.
to these shares are automatically suspended.
The executive directors service contracts are referred to in Restrictions on transfer of securities the Remuneration report set out on pages 41 to 52.
The executive There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on directors service contracts are terminable by the Company the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where giving one years notice.
the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder Other than service contracts, no director has a material beneficial or any person interested in them to provide the Company with interest in any contract to which the Company, or any of its information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the subsidiaries, was a party during the year.
Companies Act 2006: or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Details of the remuneration of individual directors, and their Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
interests in the share capital of the Company, are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 52.
54 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Other statutory and regulatory information continued Powers of the directors Restrictions on voting deadlines The directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys The Notice of general meeting will specify the deadline for shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution of shareholders and exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote is renewed annually at the Companys Annual general meeting.
in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting.
At the Annual general meeting in 2007, shareholders authorised The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect the Company to purchase up to 49,220,947 of its own shares.
This of each resolution are announced via an RNS and published authority concluded at the Annual general meeting in 2008.
A total on the Companys website after the meeting.
of 23,546,961 shares were purchased between 19 December 2007 and 22 July 2008 for an average share price of 69.09 pence Change of control significant agreements per share and representing 5.02% of the Companys issued The Company is party to significant agreements, including share capital as at 28 March 2009.
The repurchased shares commercial contracts, financial and property agreements, and were placed in treasury.
At the date of this report, no shares employees share plans, which contain certain termination and have been purchased under the authority granted at the other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control Annual general meeting in 2008, to make market purchases of the Company.
Should the counterparties choose to exercise up to a further 10% of the Companys shares.
their rights under the arrangements on a change of control, such arrangements would need to be renegotiated.
None of these are At the forthcoming Annual general meeting, the Company will considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the be seeking authority again to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary business of the Group as a whole.
There are no agreements shares, although at present the directors have no plans to buy back between any Group company and any of its employees or any any further shares.
It is, however, considered prudent to have director of the Company which provide for compensation to be the authority in place in order that the Company is able to act paid to the employee or director for termination of employment at short notice if circumstances warrant.
or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the Company, other than provisions that would apply on any At the Annual general meeting held in July 2008, the directors termination of employment.
were given the power to issue new shares up to an amount of 40,416,885.
This power will expire at the conclusion of the Annual Employees and employee involvement general meeting on 15 July 2009.
Accordingly, a resolution will be Northern Foods takes its responsibilities to its employees seriously proposed to renew the Companys authority to issue further new and places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made shares.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by employees at all levels.
The Company recognises the value by the Association of British Insurers ABI, the proposed new of its employees and seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and authority will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares equal responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable to an amount of up to one third of the Companys existing issued importance on communications with employees, which occur ordinary share capital plus, in the case of a fully pre-emptive rights throughout the organisation on both a formal and informal issue only, a further amount of up to an additional one third of the basis.
The Groups policy is to provide opportunities for active Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
participation and personal development, with the goals of motivating individuals and helping them to enhance their skills The powers of the directors are conferred on them by UK and maximise their potential.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution at a The Group is committed to: general meeting.
providing equality of opportunity for all existing and potential employees.
It aims to treat all of its employees fairly in every Northern Foods employee share ownership trust the ESOT aspect of employment: The ESOT holds ordinary shares in the Company acquired in the ensuring that employees have access to information that market in order to meet obligations under the Northern Foods plc enables them to contribute and participate fully in the Groups Performance share plan or to provide similar employee benefits.
achievement of its objectives: A further one million shares were purchased on 10 March 2009. providing employees with clear and fair terms of employment The trustees have waived their right to receive dividends in respect and competitive remuneration packages.
of the ordinary shares held by the trust.
The Company encourages involvement in the Companys At the end of the year, 7,682,843 shares were held in the ESOT, performance in a variety of ways, including senior management representing 1.64% of the issued ordinary share capital of the briefings and via the Companys intranet.
The trustees of the ESOT may vote or abstain from encouraging employees to contribute to the performance voting shares held in the trust in any way they see fit.
of the Group is reinforced by a number of incentive schemes.
A new savings-related share option scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual general meeting in 2007.
The first invitation, aimed at maximising employees involvement and interest in the success of the Company as a whole through share ownership, was successfully launched in November 2007.
Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Further information about our employment practices and our Auditors commitment to learning and development can be found in In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the the Corporate social responsibility review on pages 26 to 31.
Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit Disabled persons information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully Companys auditors are unaware: and considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any every effort is made to ensure their employment with the Group relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 continues and appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that the Group that training, career development and promotion of information.
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234A of the Companies Act 1985.
Significant direct and indirect holders of securities At the date of this report the Company had been notified, in Deloitte LLP acted as auditors for the 52 weeks ended accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency 28 March 2009 and have expressed their willingness to continue Rules, of the following interests in 3% or more of the total voting in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing rights in the issued share capital of the Company: their re-appointment will be submitted at the Companys Annual general meeting.
% of total voting rights Annual general meeting Standard Life Investments Limited 11.26% The notice convening the Companys Annual general meeting GAM International Investment Management Limited 7.32% to be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 15 July 2009 at the Odey Asset Management 6.56% Thorpe Park Hotel, 1150 Century Way, Leeds LS15 8ZB, is contained Barclays plc and group companies 5.47% in the circular sent to shareholders who requested a hard copy, UBS AG 4.78% together with this report and is also available on the Companys Legal & General Group plc 4.60% website at www.
Grantham Mayo Van Otterloo & Co LLC 4.01% Allianz SE 4.00% By order of the Board Carol Williams Supplier payment policy Company Secretary It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made 27 May 2009 in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met.
Suppliers were paid on average 52 days from receipt of invoice, in line with the Groups standard payment terms 2007 08: 49 days.
Research and development Throughout the year the Company invested across the business in product development and research, further details are set out in the Performance review.
These costs comprise all directly attributable costs necessary to create and produce new products which are both brand new in design and those being modified.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading Risks and uncertainties on pages 12 and 13 of the Performance review and in note 25 of the financial statements.
