Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 13 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Environment the Company maintains Basis of preparation Going concern environmental policies and relationships This financial information has been In determining whether the Groups annual with relevant regulators to manage prepared in accordance with International consolidated financial statements can be the impact its activities have on the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
prepared on a going concern basis, the environment.
In addition, the Company directors considered the Groups business has an active programme described in Forward looking statements activities, together with the factors likely to the Northern Way to reduce this impact Forward looking statements are made affect its future development, performance over time.
Nevertheless, changes in throughout this review.
The review also includes environmental legislation or unplanned looking statements are based on a number the financial position of the Group, its incidents could impact the Companys of assumptions concerning future events cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing operations adversely: and information currently available.
The key factors considered user of this Performance review should by the directors were as follows: Financial risks the Company has not rely unduly on these forward looking the implications of the challenging committed nancing in place, which statements, which are not a guarantee economic environment and future can only be withdrawn in the event of a of performance and which are subject uncertainties on the Groups revenues breach of nancing agreement, such as to a number of uncertainties and other and pro ts.
The Group undertakes covenants, when the Company might be facts, many of which are outside of the forecasts and projections of trading and restricted in its ability to operate normally Companys control and could cause cash ows on a regular basis.
This allows and could be required to dispose of actual events to differ materially from the Group to target performance and assets to pay down debt and incur those in these statements.
identify areas of focus for management: additional costs.
The principal banking the impact of the competitive facility is now in place until July 2012 and Although Northern Foods believes environment within which the Groups funding availability for that renewal may that the expectations re ected in those businesses operate: be more constrained in light of recent forward looking statements are reasonable, the potential actions which could be taken credit market conditions.
Board policy it cannot assure users that those in the event that revenues are worse is to operate with xed rate borrowings expectations will prove to be ful lled.
than expected, to ensure that operating within a range of 20% to 50% of net In addition to those factors described pro t and cash ows are protected: borrowings over the medium term, to under Risks and Uncertainties, other the Group has access to overdraft manage interest rate risk although the factors could cause actual results to differ facilities and a committed bank facility Group may operate outside this range materially from our expectation, including to meet day-to-day working capital from time to time.
Pension schemes economic and political conditions, requirements.
Following the re nancing of could require increases in future Company changes in laws, regulation and accounting the bank facility in March 2009, the Group funding and pension regulation could standards, customer relationships and has committed bank facilities to July 2012. restrict the freedom of the Company actions, effectiveness of spending and In April 2009 the existing facility was to undertake certain corporate activities marketing programmes and unusual reduced from 460m at March 2009 to including disposals and return of capital weather patterns.
The facility will reduce to 250m to shareholders.
The Company has given of future results, levels of activity, in July 2010. certain tax exposures in addition to performance or achievements.
These As at the date of this report, the directors exposures total 23.8m which are provided Comparative statements have a reasonable expectation that the for but which, in the event of an adverse In this report, Northern Foods makes Company and Group have adequate nding by taxation authorities, could result certain statements with respect to its resources to continue in business for the in a substantial payment of cash.
The market position or its products or its foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Annual Irish business is exposed to foreign brands market positions by comparisons report and financial statements for the exchange risk and transaction exposure with third parties or their products or 52 weeks ended 28 March 2009 have been is hedged on a rolling 12 month basis.
These statements are based on prepared on the going concern basis.
both internal sources and independent sources and are accurate to the best of the knowledge and belief of Northern Foods.
14 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Chilled The Chilled division delivered improved performance, growing revenue, operating margin and pro t We are responding to the current retail environment with our range of competitively priced sandwiches: Tesco Chicken & Sweetcorn, 1.00 RSP Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009 15 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Our premium sandwiches are lled with delicious ingredients: M&S Cray sh & Rocket, 3.00 RSP 16 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Ready Meals Chilled Sales growth outperformed the market, with underlying sales increasing by 6.6% The focus for the Chilled division is on in a market which fell by 2.0% TNS data 52 w e 22 03 09.
This emphasised the making fresh, short shelf life products which importance we place on repeat purchase rates as a key success driver across meet consumers desires for convenient, all of our businesses.
We are committed to driving improvements in pro tability high quality food that re ects the demands across Ready Meals and we saw a good performance.
Three speci c products of busy, healthier lifestyles Melt in the Middle Fishcakes, Sweet & Sour Battered Balls and Prawn Primavera performed strongly during the period and were featured in TV advertising by Marks & Spencer.
Our Accompaniments The division delivered a robust range for M&S also saw strong growth, performance over the year.
Revenue helping provide products for the time increased by 1.1% to 486.8m 2007 08: poor consumer.
In the run up to Christmas, 481.5m.
Ready Meals growth offset slightly we saw over one million Ultimate Mash lower volume growth in Sandwiches and products supplied to M&S, a great example Salads due to the poor summer weather.
7 of the high volume we can deliver from Underlying revenue increased by 5.6% our modern, automated sites.
We are as a result of average selling prices being continuing to ensure that we utilise capacity 2.9% ahead, as we increased prices to at our sites in the best way possible.
recover commodity in ation, and volumes were 2.7% ahead.
In May 2008 we announced the mothballing of our Fenland Foods facility We worked closely with our customers to in Grantham, which produced Italian based develop new value and discount products cuisine for M&S.
We were unable to reach in Pizza, Sandwiches and Salads, alongside agreement to return Fenland to pro tability, our premium ranges.
Improvements in consistent with our stated strategy to underlying performance were offset by continue with business only where terms start-up costs of 1.2m in commissioning generate an adequate return for the our chilled soup plant at Grimsby.
The Fenland pro t from operations increased to 22.9m mothballing has resulted in restructuring 2007 08: 22.1m and operating margin items of 22.9m which includes impairment increased slightly to 4.7% 2007 08: 4.6%.
of xed assets of 18.1m and other costs of 4.8m, net of a retirement bene t obligation With constrained capacity in the industry curtailment gain of 0.4m.
Cash costs for producing ready meals, sandwiches associated with the Fenland mothballing and salads pro tably and with the high were 5.2m and non-cash costs were quality that consumers demand, we are 17.7m.
We continue to discuss the potential well positioned in markets which offer re-opening of Fenland in the future with good long term growth prospects.
Sainsburys Taste the Difference Moroccan Sandwich llers for retailers including Morrisons Cous-Cous Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 17 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Sandwiches and Salads 2008 09 2007 08 52 weeks 52 weeks In Sandwiches and Salads, revenue growth was ahead by 6.0% against market growth Revenue 486.8m 481.5m of 0.7% in Sandwiches ACN 52 w e 18 04 09 Operating margin 4.7% 4.6% and 1.1% in Salads ACN 52 w e 18 04 09, Pro t from operations 22.9m 22.1m but slower than anticipated due to the poor summer weather.
The business performed creditably despite the dif cult market conditions.
We successfully introduced sandwiches for our major customers, including Wiltshire Ham & West Country Following the conclusion of negotiations to Cheddar for the Tesco Finest range, seek mutually acceptable and commercially and a range of sandwiches for M&S 6.6% viable terms for business supplied from in its Best of British range.
Northern Foods Hull ready meals facility, Ready Meals sales growth Northern Foods and its main customer outperformed the market, Our prepared Salads business delivered served by the site have agreed to terminate a commendable performance.
Investment with underlying sales increasing the existing supply contracts.
As a result, to expand capacity at our Corby salads site we will be commencing consultation by 6.6% in a market which fell was successfully completed during the first with employees on a proposal to cease by 2.0% half, providing us with additional capacity production and close the site, in in this market.
accordance with our strategy to continue with business only where terms generate One million Chilled pizza continues to operate in an adequate return.
The proposal includes a challenging and promotionally driven consultation to move a proportion of In the run up to Christmas, competitive environment, although we production to other facilities.
The net we supplied over one million have been able to secure new business to pro t impact in 2009 10 will be minimal Ultimate Mash products to M&S capitalise on the downturn and consumers and the Company will incur a one-off cash looking for healthy yet convenient products.
restructuring cost in the 2009 10 financial Our chilled pizza sales remained stable year which is expected to be less than during the year, supported by premium 5m.
Our 2008 09 accounts include a and value ranges for several of our main non-cash impairment of 5.9m.
In line with other areas of our business, we launched products under Promotional activity increased during two new tertiary brands for Tesco, Pizza the period as retailers sought to deliver Americano and Trattoria Verdi, focused better value for hard-pressed consumers.
Whilst we worked closely with all of our major customers, we are less reliant on promotions to drive sales.
Melt in Middle Fishcakes were one of three products The Chicken Fajita forms part of the American range featured in M&S adverts during the year launched exclusively in Sainsburys 18 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Frozen Frozen operates in attractive and growing markets.
The divisions pro tability was impacted by a strong currency exchange this year In both branded and own label pizza, we are targeting the cash conscious consumer: San Marco Deep Pan Margherita, 1.99 RSP Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009 19 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Our premium pizzas address the eating-in culture: Goodfellas La Bottega Pepperoni Classic, 2.79 RSP 20 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Frozen The focus for our Frozen division is to meet the needs of the cash conscious consumers desire for healthy yet convenient food Further strengthening of the Euro our Pizza manufacturing operations are based in We are adjusting our business model Ireland and increased promotional activity to the current economic conditions with impacted the Frozen division this year.
a continuous drive to lower cost in our Total revenue was 11.0% ahead at 272.4m manufacturing base.
We consolidated 7 2007 08: 245.4m with underlying revenue pizza production into two well invested 3.7% higher.
The impact of price increases lean manufacturing sites, with the move of 8.6%, as we successfully recovered of operations and employees as we closed commodity in ation, saw Frozen volumes the smaller Poldys site in Ireland to the decline by 4.9%.
Despite volume decline, larger scale facilities at Naas and Longford.
frozen food, as evidenced by most market data, remains a popular choice for time We re-launched our San Marco pizza range poor families and cash conscious during the second half, pro tably targeting consumers.
a speci c price point for the constrained consumer.
We expect further promotional The impact from the continued strength activity to also drive sales in this segment.
of the Euro impacted overall pro tability In retailer own brand, we continued to by 5.0m in the full year.
As a result, develop new products for several of our pro t from operations reduced to 9.3m customers, re ecting market data showing 2007 08: 11.4m, with operating margin supermarkets own label ranges to be at 3.4% 2007 08: 4.6%.
The division has increasingly popular.
undertaken a number of cost reduction programmes to lower its cost base.
Fish & Vegetables Donegal Catch, our branded sh business predominantly retailed in Ireland, continues to experience good growth in the sector and remains number one in Ireland, along with our Green Isle vegetable brand.
With over half of the Irish market, Donegal Catch was introduced into the UK during the second half of the year and we continue to work hard to secure business through our major customers.
Our McDougalls frozen pies are a value choice for We produce over two million frozen and chilled pizzas all the family every week Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 21 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 2008 09 2007 08 52 weeks 52 weeks Revenue 272.4m 245.4m Operating margin 3.4% 4.6% Pro t from operations 9.3m 11.4m Pastry, Meat & Meat-Free Grills Our prior year acquisition of the No.
1 McDougalls brands in Pastry has been successful, with good progress made.
The McDougalls frozen pies Our challenge to improve the performance range was successfully of the Pastry and Meat Grills businesses re-launched during the year, was set out last year and remains a key priority.
The McDougalls acquisition was establishing itself as the fully integrated into our centre of excellence number one frozen pie brand at Portumna in Ireland.
Consolidating capacity is helping to improve the ef ciency of our operation, enabling us to provide Pizza a better service for customers and drive We re-launched our San Marco superior product innovation and margin improvement.
The McDougalls frozen pies pizza range during the second range was successfully re-launched during half, pro tably targeting a speci c the year, establishing itself as the number price point for the constrained one frozen pie brand in the 52 weeks consumer to 21 March 2009 ACN Scantrack 52 w e 21 03 09.
Hollands continued its recovery plan, through product improvement and effective press promotion.
Hollands, which remains a strong brand in the North West of England, has re-focused on its core chip shop outlets and is looking to increase distribution in foodservice and at sporting venues.
Whilst Meat Grills were again impacted adversely by the poor summer weather in the important barbeque season, the Dalepak business bene ted from a number of performance improvements and the launch of the exciting Gardein Meat-Free brand.
The growth in the healthier cooking market continues to provide attractive opportunities.
Donegal Catch, the number one Irish sh and vegetable Our modern sites help us to deliver high volumes for brand, was launched in the UK during the year our customers, day in, day out 22 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Bakery The progress made in our Bakery performance has been particularly pleasing Oatland Oaties is just one of the own label brands we helped to develop: Tesco Oatland Oaties, 45p RSP Prices correct at time of going to press, 27 May 2009 23 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Our Foxs brand continues to focus on premium indulgence: Foxs half coated Chunkie, 1.59 RSP 24 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 Biscuits Bakery Biscuits represents a signi cant growth opportunity for Northern Foods, with our The focus in the Bakery division is to sell commitment to invest in the Foxs brand showing real bene ts.
Our increased premium indulgent Foxs biscuits and spend, by 1.8m, in the new Vinnie TV advertising campaign helped increase Christmas puddings which meet consumer the number of households buying Foxs biscuits during the period.
As with all our desires for quality, taste and enjoyment businesses, Foxs has focused on its Power 5 its top five best selling products, with our top five products driving incremental sales and margins.
Our most popular product, Rocky, is set for re-launch in the autumn.
The Bakery division delivered a strong Reducing complexity has helped our performance over the year, building on overall performance and, whilst our exit the improvement from the prior year.
from a number of low pro t own label We further increased our investment in the contracts has helped us to focus on Foxs brand through the Vinnie campaign, higher value business, we continue to work driving improved national awareness and with our retail customers to develop new distribution.
Examples include the Oatland to 216.0m 2007 08: 205.0m.
Selling prices Oaties range, which is targeted at cash increased by 1.5% as we successfully conscious consumers.
We have seen recovered commodity in ation and further growth with our ability to adapt volumes increased by 3.9%, despite exiting products for customers such as Aldi and some unpro table or low margin retailer Netto helping us to increase orders for own brand contracts.
The premium nature retailer own brand business.
of the Foxs brand and increased focus on higher margin retailer own brand business We announced in July that we would helped drive operating margin improvement, evaluate a project to streamline our with pro t from operations increasing biscuit manufacturing operations and by 37.6% to 20.5m 2007 08: 14.9m, reduce costs by transitioning from three and operating margin improving to production sites to two world class facilities, 9.5% 2007 08: 7.3%.
building on recent investments in greater automation.
We are continuing the feasibility Competitive pressure in the puddings phase of this project to ensure that we market will bring challenges to improve rigorously assess all the options in view pro tability, yet we are focused on retaining of the extremely volatile and recessionary our market leadership.
This project offers the market, there is potential to continue pro t potential to improve ef ciency.
Whilst improvement over the medium term.
we recognise the uncertainty for our The sweet biscuit market grew by 8.0% employees, we have to evaluate all the in 2008 09 ACN Scantrack 52 w e 21 03 09, options comprehensively.
We are working with the Foxs brand share increasing to 9.3%.
towards concluding the feasibility at the end of 2009.
In the meantime, we remain committed to open communication with our employees throughout this process.
Foxs premium indulgence sales grew during the year We made over 18 million Christmas puddings for our customers during the year Highlights Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 25 Northern Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09 2008 09 2007 08 52 weeks 52 weeks Revenue 216.0m 205.0m Operating margin 9.5% 7.3% Pro t from operations 20.5m 14.9m Puddings In Puddings, a market where we have Vinnie leadership, our Christmas trading period was successfully delivered.
All of the Our increased spend in the new Christmas pudding stock we made at Vinnie TV advertising campaign our Matthew Walker site was sold and helped to increase the number once again we received excellent feedback on the quality and taste of our products, of households buying Foxs which derives from a unique steaming biscuits during the period process, built on 110 years of experience.
Our unique pressurised steam cook process and range of different recipes, Unique from extra-matured to nut-free, saw our Our unique pressurised steam products featured across all of the major retailers, from the traditional discount cook process and range supermarkets to the premium end of different recipes saw our of the market.
puddings featured across all of the major retailers, A new competitor to target mainstream retailers in the puddings market for from the traditional discount Christmas 2009 emerged during the year.
supermarkets to the premium The necessary investment to maintain our end of the market leadership in this market will reduce short term pro tability.
However, we believe that the quality required by consumers in this market will keep us well placed across our customer base.
We also continue to manage the complexity within this business, whilst ensuring that our quality is undiminished.
Elsewhere in our Puddings business, we launched a range of sponge puddings, including a new brand, Scrummie, to help support our all year round business.
In four exciting avours, Scrummie evokes memories of childhood with its innovative sticky ngers packaging design.
Our belief is that our main retailer own brand and branded ranges continue to offer attractive opportunities for further development.
Our proposal to integrate our biscuits manufacturing The delicious Scrummie sponge pudding was and develop a new world class facility would improve launched to develop our all year round Puddings ef ciency business
