Directors report and business review 5.
Risks and resources Kevin McNeill, NWL contractor, on site for the mains cleaning programme on Tyneside.
The NWG Board requires all subsidiaries The current pressures within the financial within the Group to identify and markets have been well documented assess the impact of risks to their and the credit crunch has resulted in business.
For each risk, the likelihood reduced availability of certain types of and consequences are identied, finance such as index linked bonds management controls and frequency and a significant increase in the cost of monitoring are reported and the of corporate debt.
It is not clear how scale of the risk is assessed.
Apart from long current difficult market conditions NWL, none of the subsidiaries has risks will persist.
However, as the Group has considered to be significant to the sufficient funding in place to 2011, the Groups short and long term value.
effects on the Group are minimal.
For NWL, the management team reviews The current economic climate is the approach to risk management also having an impact on revenues, in detail every year and the Audit particularly those from industrial Committee considers the outcome.
and commercial customers and The NWL management team review those associated with the housing the significant risks every month and market.
We continue to monitor the summary reports on these reviews uncertain situation very carefully.
are submitted to the NWL board.
As a consequence, the directors believe Going concern and treasury risk that the Group is well placed to manage The financial ratios, financial results, its business risks successfully despite the liquidity position and credit ratings are current uncertain economic outlook.
described in the financial performance Accordingly, they continue to adopt the section on pages 19 to 22.
In addition, going concern basis in preparing the note 20 to the financial statements annual report and financial statements.
includes details on the Groups strategy and treasury operations for Regulatory risk managing its capital: its exposures to The key risk for the business is the liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign outcome of the PR09 periodic review currency risk and counterparty risk: and of prices, the process by which details of its financial instruments.
Ofwat sets limits on the prices which 40 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources NWL can charge customers for the the transfer process are expected later five years from 1 April 2010.
Ofwat in the year but this will be too late for will publish its draft determination the costs to be included in the PR09 in July 2009 and will consider price review.
It is, therefore, likely that representations before issuing its final all sewerage companies will see an determination in November 2009. adjustment to price limits post 2010.
The Government published a Another item of new legislation that consultation paper on the draft Flood will have a significant impact on the and Water Management Bill in April business, as and when the provisions 2009.
The Bill includes measures to are implemented by local authorities, implement the recommendations of is the Trafc Management Act which the Pitt Review on ooding as well as came into effect in April 2008. a range of other measures to tidy up aspects of water related legislation.
The Environmental, social and ooding measures primarily relate to governance risks local authorities and the Environment There are two environmental, social Agency but also have implications or governance risks considered to be for water companies, particularly significant to the value of the Group.
with regard to how they interact and cooperate with these bodies.
The first relates to the use of sewage sludge as a soil conditioner on It is intended that the Bill will ultimately agricultural land.
If this disposal route incorporate measures in response to was lost, the sector would need to nd the Cave Review published in April or develop alternative ways to re-use or 2009 and the Walker Report on dispose of its sewage sludge.
This could charging and metering published mean higher capital and revenue costs in June 2009.
These measures will to provide additional sludge processing be added at a later date and will be facilities.
The development of the subject to separate consultation.
Safe Sludge Matrix and the proposed revision of the Sludge Use in Agriculture The Cave Review proposes a Regulations have reduced the immediate cautious step-by-step approach to risk in this area.
NWL is introducing the introduction of competition and advanced digestion to both reduce envisages the main benets arising sludge volumes and the carbon impact from greater innovation.
It proposes a of its activities.
NWL will retain a facility number of regulatory changes including to dry sludge and produce pellets as a providing Ofwat with a duty to promote fuel replacement, as a viable alternative innovation and the incorporation way of using sludge in the medium term.
of negotiated agreements involving customer representatives eg CCWater The second is the potential for sewer as part of future price reviews.
As rainfall patterns become more variable and intense storms more The most significant competition frequent, localised heavy rainfall can proposal, at least in the short term, is result in sewers becoming overloaded.
the legal separation of retail businesses.
We welcome the focus on integrated This will need to be considered in ood management in Defras strategic greater detail as part of a separate document Future Water and in the consultation.
We remain to be convinced Pitt Review on recent ooding.
of the benets of this proposal.
Affordability and customer debt The Government has confirmed that it Although our average household intends to proceed with the transfer of bills are relatively low, affordability certain private drains and sewers into is an issue for NWL with income water company ownership by 2011, deprivation levels in the northern area which would increase the sewerage the highest of all water and sewerage network owned and maintained by companies and in the southern area, NWL by about 60%.
Further details on close to the national average.
41 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report and business review 5.
Risks and resources continued Providing our customers with a range reliable supply of water well into the of payment facilities and frequencies future.
In spring 2008, we published our that suit their individual circumstances draft Water Resources Management is a critical element of successful Plan for consultation and, in January income collection and debt prevention.
2009, we produced a Statement of We ensure that customers are Response to the consultation and aware of options which help reduce provided an updated draft of the plan charges and ease the establishment to Defra.
A final plan will be published of payment arrangements.
once approval has been received.
Customers who deliberately avoid In April 2009, Colchester Borough paying charges are actively pursued Council formally approved our and we continue to work with application for planning permission for Ofwat and Defra to seek changes raising Abberton reservoir which will to legislation to assist the industry increase its capacity by 58%.
The one to impose and collect charges.
remaining part of the overall Abberton Scheme that requires permissions is Water resources the variation of abstraction licences at The way we retain, recycle and distribute Denver and Blackdyke, in Norfolk.
Once our water resources is a central part this Scheme is in operation in 2014, it is of our business.
While NWL has unlikely we will need to develop major sufficient water resources in the north resources in Essex for the next 25 years.
east, we believe it is still important to manage the demand for water so We will continue to play a leading role that it does not exceed levels that can in the industry on water efficiency be supplied in a sustainable way.
measures and to encourage customers to use water wisely.
We will work In our Essex and Suffolk areas, however, with other stakeholders to develop water resource availability is a key issue.
a coordinated strategy for reducing We have been successful over many water use to sustainable levels.
years in encouraging our customers to use less water and in keeping leakage In areas where water is scarce, water at or below the economic level.
meters have a key role to play in Nonetheless, we need to continue to reducing demand.
We aim to achieve as invest to achieve our aim of ensuring near to universal metering as possible our customers have a safe, secure and in Essex by 2020 and in Suffolk by The Right Honourable David Miliband MP, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs with residents of Newlands Court, an area where work is underway to protect homes from ooding.
42 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources 2023.
On current policies it will take indemnification of directors considerably longer to achieve full The Company has in place directors metering in the north east as there and ofcers insurance and, on 28 is no economic, environmental or November 2005, entered into a deed social driver to move more quickly.
of indemnity to grant the directors further protection against liability to third Changing weather patterns parties, subject to the conditions set out The water cycle and the changing in the Companies Acts.
Such qualifying British weather has a direct influence third party indemnity provision remains on the provision of water and waste in force as at the date of approving the water services.
NWLs employees are directors report and business review.
experienced in managing the effects The deed, together with directors of too much or too little rainfall, but service contracts, will be available for changing weather patterns will present inspection by shareholders at the AGM, a growing challenge for the business.
or from the Company Secretary.
We have carried out research into the Annual general meeting likely impact of climate change on all The notice convening the AGM, to our assets and water resources and this be held on 30 July 2009, was sent has been incorporated in our Climate to shareholders with this report, Change Policy as part of our corporate together with an explanation of the responsibility work.
We will continue business to be conducted at the to do work in this area using the latest meeting and a form of proxy.
projections of the impacts of climate change soon to be published by the Auditors UK Climate Impacts Programme.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce Employees and a resolution proposing their People are our key asset and if we are re-appointment as auditors will be to continue to meet the needs of our put to shareholders at the AGM.
customers, and to achieve our regulatory obligations, we need to continue to Directors declaration recruit and retain talented and skilled As required under section 234ZA of people as a leading employer in our the Companies Act 1985, so far as regions.
We will continue to offer all each current director is aware, there our employees terms and conditions is no relevant audit information of at least commensurate with other which the Companys auditors are major employers as well as appropriate unaware and each director has taken training and development to support all the steps that he or she ought to their career progression.
This includes have taken as a director in order to the comprehensive management make himself or herself aware of any development framework, graduate relevant audit information and to and apprentice programmes, as well as establish that the Companys auditors initiatives such as the NVQ programme are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Directors remuneration and interests Martin Parker Information about directors General Counsel and Company remuneration and their interests in the Secretary shares of the Company is contained 2 June 2009 in the directors remuneration Registered ofce: Northumbria House, report on pages 54 to 63.
Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4760441 43 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
