Sir Patrick Brown 1 Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Sir Derek Wanless was appointed to Director the Board as an independent nonSir Patrick Brown was appointed to executive director in December 2003. the Board in May 2003 and to the He was appointed to the board of board of NWL in January 2006.
Sir NWL in January 2006 and, in July Patrick chairs the Audit Committee and 2006, became Chairman of NWG and is a member of the Nomination and NWL.
Sir Derek chairs the Nomination Remuneration Committees.
He held Committee and is a member of the various positions in the Department Remuneration Committee.
He became of Transport and the Department of a director of National Westminster Bank the Environment, becoming Second 2 in 1991 and its Group Chief Executive Permanent Secretary and Chief Executive in 1992.
He retired from this position in of the Property Services Agency in 1990.
Sir Derek is currently Chairman He was Permanent Secretary for the of Legal and General plcs Longevity Department of Transport from 1991 to Science Advisory Panel and a member 1997.
Sir Patrick became a non-executive of the Board for Actuarial Standards director of the Go-Ahead Group plc at the Financial Reporting Council.
Claude Lamoureux Managing Director Non-executive Director John Cuthbert was appointed to Claude Lamoureux was appointed to 3 the Board in May 2003.
John joined the boards of NWG and NWL on 1 the water industry in 1991 and was December 2006.
Claude was, until 1 appointed Managing Director of North December 2007, President and CEO of East Water plc in 1993.
Following the the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board acquisition of the former Northumbrian OTPP.
Previously, he spent 25 years as Water Group plc by Lyonnaise des a financial executive with Metropolitan Eaux in 1995, he transferred within the Life in Canada and the US.
He is Group to become Managing Director Chairman of Cordiant Capital and is also of Essex and Suffolk Water plc.
John a director of Xstrata plc, The Foundation took over as Managing Director of the for Investor Rights, Glass Lewis, Maple former Northumbrian Water Group Leaf Foods Inc, Atrium Innovations Inc, plc, and also of NWL, in 2001 and is a the Canadian Institute for Advanced 4 member of the Nomination Committee.
Research, The Learning Partnership John is Chairman of Castle View and the York University Foundation.
Enterprise Academy, in Sunderland, OTPP holds 27% of the issued share of which NWL is lead sponsor.
John capital of Northumbrian Water Group will retire on 31 March 2010 and plc and Claude is, therefore, not the Nomination Committee has regarded as an independent director.
initiated a process to seek a successor, which is described in the corporate governance report on page 50.
Chris Green 5 Finance Director Chris Green was appointed to the Board in May 2003.
Chris joined the former Northumbrian Water Group plc in January 1990 and was initially involved in its diversi ed business activities before being appointed as Group Finance Director in 1997.
Chris was appointed as Finance Director of NWL in April 2000 following the merger of that company with Essex and Suffolk Water plc.
46 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 6.
Jenny Williams 6 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Martin Ngre was appointed to the Jenny Williams joined the Board in May Board in May 2003 and to the board 2004, and the board of NWL in January of NWL in January 2006.
Martin 2006, and is a member of the Audit chairs the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committees.
She is and is a member of the Nomination a Commissioner and Chief Executive Committee.
He was, between April of the Gambling Commission and a 2000 and April 2001, the CEO of the Trustee of the charity, Connections at former Northumbrian Water Group plc St Martins.
In addition to being Head and the chief corporate representative of Water Finance and Flotation at the of its parent company, Suez, in the UK.
time of water privatisation, Jenny has 7 He is currently the Chairman of Eco n held a variety of directorships in a range Global Utilities Hedge Fund Limited, of Government departments, including an Irish Stock Exchange listed fund, the Home Of ce, the Department of Chairman of Eco n Special Situations the Environment, Transport and the Utilities Fund and of Eco n North Regions and the Inland Revenue.
She American Hedge Fund, a director of was previously a Director-General of Eco n Water & Power Opportunities the Lord Chancellors Department plc, a London listed investment trust now the Department for Justice.
of which he was Chairman for three years, as well as a director of Bolux 9.
Martin Parker Utilities Sicav Luxembourg, Mercurius General Counsel and Company 8 Utilities Liechtenstein, EFMI Global Secretary Utilities and Infrastructure Funds Martin Parker was appointed as plc and EFMI UBAM Global Utilities Company Secretary of NWG in May 130 130 Fund.
Martin joined the former focused on utilities.
In 2005, he was Northumbrian Water Group plc in 1990, appointed a director of Promethean plc, concentrating on acquisitions, overseas an AIM-listed investment company.
projects and contracts with industrial customers, before being appointed 7.
Alex Scott-Barrett Head of Group Legal Services in 1998 Independent Non-executive Director and General Counsel and Company Alex Scott-Barrett was appointed to Secretary of NWL in 2000.
Martin is the Board of NWG in September 2006, Secretary of all the Board committees.
9 having previously joined the board of NWL in November 2005 and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Alex quali ed as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand in 1981 and joined Cazenove, a city corporate stockbroker, in 1982.
He worked initially as an analyst and transferred to the corporate finance department in 1986, becoming a partner of the rm in 1988.
In 1996 he became a director of the rms fund management division and from 2000 to 2003 was the Chief Operating Of cer of that division.
He is a non-executive director of General Capital Group plc and Lighthouse Group plc and is a Trustee of LArche and Help for Heroes.
47 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
