Directors report and business review 1. Business strategy John Cuthbert, Managing Director, presenting at a partnership conference.
Strategic direction A clear framework Our strategy is to focus on the Groups Our core business, NWL, has identied core competences of water and waste five key strategic themes.
Four of these, water management and, through that People, Customer, Competitiveness and focus, to deliver value to all of our Environment, are important individually stakeholders.
Our activities and priorities and also contribute to the fifth, continue to be directed to achieving our Reputation.
These themes underpin our mission to be the national leader in the drive for performance and delivery of provision of sustainable water and waste our corporate objectives.
Our three priorities are: are mutually supportive and achieving the right balance between them is N to maintain our strong reputation an essential part of our success.
and relationships by: delivering excellent service People to customers: We believe strongly that our people delivering regulatory outputs: are the key to business success.
creating shareholder value: and involving our main Customer stakeholder groups.
Customers are central to our thinking and our overriding N to ensure a stable financial prole by: objective is to properly understand maximising revenue: and meet their needs.
delivering operational Mission efficiency: and Competitiveness securing low cost long term funds.
To grow our business and meet Corporate the challenges of a developing objectives N to develop a culture of continuous market we strive to be competitive improvement by: in everything we do.
Reputation ensuring a focus on safety and rigorous risk management: Environment encouraging employees to Our business is founded on water and full their potential: environmental engineering and a great promoting a exible and deal of what we do inuences the proactive attitude: and environment.
We seek to understand embracing a sustainable and our impact on the environment responsible approach.
and, also taking into account our 10 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 People Customer Competitiveness Environment Business Operating Financial Operational Risks and strategy environment performance performance resources impact on, and contribution to, the In our strategy, we set out our economy and communities in which long term aims for NWL alongside we operate, aim always to deliver intermediate targets for the period sustainable outputs from our activities.
to 2015 for the key areas of: N customer satisfaction: Reputation N water quality: Our ability to develop our business will N availability of water: be influenced by our reputation.
A good N waste water services: reputation is often the starting point N sustainability, the environment for good stakeholder relationships on and climate change: which business growth can be achieved.
By staying focused, motivated and innovative we are confident we will be Our long term operational strategy was able to continue to supply our customers produced to help inform our plans for with an excellent service at the right the period 2010-15.
The strategy builds price and, by satisfying our customers, on our achievements of the past 20 we provide a platform on which we will years and re-afrms our commitment build, expand and develop our business.
to long term planning and investment to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
NWLs corporate objectives are: N to deliver industry leading We identied three key challenges customer service: for the future: N N to be the most efficient sustaining and, where appropriate, water company: improving services while N to be recognised as a great keeping bills affordable: N company to work for: maintaining healthy and stable N to be the company of choice nances to ensure we can continue to for investors: and borrow money to meet the investment N to protect and enhance the needed in the business: and N natural environment.
responding to climate change by further reducing greenhouse Looking to the future gas emissions and futureNWL consulted key stakeholders before proong our operations.
publishing Looking to the future, our long term operational strategy for the Last year, we developed our plans next 25 years.
We published different for the period 2010-15 in support of versions for each of our operational our long term strategy and submitted areas and they have been well received initially a Draft and then, in April by a range of stakeholders.
They are this year, our Final Business Plan to available on our websites at www.
Part A of the Final Business nwl.
co. uk Plan is available on our websites.
11 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
