REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Neil Gaydon Neil was appointed Chief Executive officer in April 2006.
He was appointed to the Board in June 2002 as Worldwide Sales and Marketing Director.
He has been with the Company since 1995 and as President, Pace Americas spearheaded the development of the Companys US business between 1999 and December 2003.
Prior to this he was Regional Sales Director EMEA and head of New Business Development and Product Marketing for the Company.
Pat Chapman-Pincher Pat was appointed a Non-executive Director in February 2005 and became Senior Independent Director in May 2006.
She has over 30 years experience in the communications industry from senior roles in multinational Internet and telecoms companies to participating in technology company start-ups.
A founding partner of the Cavell Group, which specialises in operational consultancy IP and wireless technologies, she is a non-executive director of Stepstone ASA, Omniplug Ltd. a non-executive director of Friends of the Earth, and of Groundwork East London.
Pat is also a member of the Advisory Board of Bradford School of Management.
John Grant John was appointed a Non-executive Director on 1 August 2008.
John spent his executive career in a variety of senior international roles within the automotive industry and other engineering businesses.
He was Chief Executive of Ascot Plc between 1997 and 2000.
Prior to that, he was Group Finance Director of Lucas Industries Plc subsequently Lucas Varity Plc between 1992 and 1996.
He previously held a number of senior positions within Ford Motor Company in Europe and the USA.
John is Non-Executive Chairman of Torotrak Plc, Gas Turbine efficiency Plc and Surion Energy Ltd, and Non-Executive Director of Melrose Plc, MHP S. A. and Royal Automobile Club Ltd. Stuart Hall Stuart was appointed Chief Financial officer and joined the Board in April 2007.
Before joining the Company he was Group Finance Director of IQE plc and prior to that Finance Director of Energis Squared Limited and Director of Performance Management for Energis Group plc.
He has also been Finance Director at WBF Ltd, part of the Adare Printing Group plc, Carnography plc and Race Electronics.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Mike Inglis Mike was appointed a Non-executive Director in July 2008.
He is currently EVP and General Manager of the Processor Division of ARM Holdings having previously been EVP, Sales and Marketing.
Before joining ARM, he worked in management consultancy with A. T. Kearney and held a number of senior operational and marketing positions at Motorola.
He previously worked in semiconductor sales, marketing, design and consultancy with Texas Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
David McKinney David was appointed Chief Operating officer in April 2006 and joined the Board on 24 October 2006.
He has been with the Company since November 2005, joining as Director of Engineering and Operations with responsibility for operations, engineering, test and quality strategy.
Previously David spent ten years in the semiconductor industry including NEC Semiconductors and Digital Equipment Corporation, before moving to and spending over ten years in the telecommunications sector including Motorola and Royal Philips Electronics, where he held senior executive and operational management roles.
David is a Graduate of the Royal Society of Chemistry and holds an MBA.
Neil Gaydon and Pat Chapman-Pincher will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are disclosed on page 25.
13 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT PAYMENT TO SUPPLIERS It is the policy of the Group to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers, which are varied from time to time.
Payment is made in accordance with those terms, subject to the other terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
The Group does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
Creditor days at the end of the period for the Group were 71 days 31 December 2008: 63 days and for the Company were 71 days 31 December 2008: 63 days.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The directors regard it as fundamental to the future success of the Group to engage in a substantial ongoing programme of research and development of new products, spending 71.7 million in the year year ended 31 December 2008: 59.6m and charging 68.8 million year ended 31 December 2008: 60.5m to the income statement during the year following the treatment under IAS38.
DONATIONS During the period the Group donated 45,000 year ended 31 December 2008: 40,000 to charitable causes.
No political donations were made.
Further details of the charitable and community-related activities of the Group are given on page 18.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The directors believe that the Company has complied throughout the period with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as revised and adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board confirms that it has established the necessary procedures designed to maintain a sound system of internal control and that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors, which comprises three executive and four non-executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the Board.
Biographical details of all directors are to be found on pages 12 and 13.
The Chairman, Mike McTighe, is mainly responsible for the running of the Board ensuring, together with the Company Secretary, that it receives timely and clear information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The responsibilities of the Chief Executive officer, Neil Gaydon, focus on running the Groups business and implementing Group strategy.
The Chief Executive officer is assisted in managing the business on a day-to-day basis by the Executive Committee as further described below.
All the non-executive directors are deemed by the Board to be independent.
In addition, the Board has designated Pat ChapmanPincher as the Senior Independent Director.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and are able to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
All directors, in accordance with the Combined Code, submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
New directors receive a programme of tailored induction on joining the Board and all directors are offered the opportunity to continually update their skills and knowledge by attending external training events.
The Company has in place procedures to deal with directors conicts of interest and the Board is satisfied that these procedures operate effectively.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and normally meets at least nine times each year.
It is responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and consideration of significant nancing matters.
It reviews the strategic direction of the Group and conducts formal strategy reviews together with other senior executives within the Group at least once a year.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present at least twice during the year.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a formal review and evaluation of its performance including the performance of its committees, the Chairman and individual directors on an annual basis.
During the year the Board agreed that it would benefit from its first external board effectiveness review.
Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review was appointed to act as an independent facilitator for the Board evaluation process.
The evaluation process included one-to-one interviews with each director and the Company Secretary, Board and Committee meeting observation and review of relevant papers.
Feedback from the review was provided in the form of a written report and presentation to the Board, which then discussed its findings.
PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established the following committees, each of which has written terms of reference specifying its authority and duties and copies of which are publicly available on the Companys website: www.
The Audit Committee is comprised of independent designated non-executive directors, Pat Chapman-Pincher, Mike Inglis and John Grant, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
Mike Inglis joined the Committee in November 2009.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the auditors and reviewing their independence.
It receives and reviews reports from management and from the auditors including internal auditors relating to the interim and annual accounts and the control systems in use throughout the Group.
Meetings are held by the Committee with the auditors without executive management being present at least once a year and the Committee reviews arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties, including review of the Group whistleblowing policy.
The Executive Committee is chaired by Neil Gaydon as Chief Executive officer.
The Committee generally meets once a month and ensures that the strategy, plans and policies previously agreed or delegated by the Board are implemented.
The Executive Committee comprises the three executive directors together with the following senior executives: Anthony Dixon General Counsel Jill Ezard Director of Human Resources Mathias Hautefort President, Pace France Helen Kettleborough Director of Communications Michael Pulli President, Pace Americas Scott Sheldon Chief Strategy officer Richard Slee President, Pace UK The Remuneration Committee is comprised of Mike McTighe and independent designated non-executive directors John Grant and Pat Chapman-Pincher, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee including making recommendations regarding the grant of share options.
The members of the Committee have no personal interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no potential conicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
The Nominations Committee is comprised of non-executive directors Pat Chapman-Pincher, John Grant, Mike Inglis and is chaired by Mike McTighe.
Its purpose is to consider and make recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of new directors.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee Total Meetings 9 4 4 1 Pat Chapman-Pincher 9 4 4 1 Neil Gaydon 8 John Grant 9 4 4 1 Stuart Hall 8 Mike Inglis 9 1 David McKinney 9 Mike McTighe 9 4 1 director appointed to Committee in November 2009 15 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee as a prelude to recommending their annual remuneration, bonus awards and award of share options to the Board.
The final determinations are made by the Board as a whole but no director plays a part in any discussions concerning their own remuneration.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Remuneration Report of the Directors to shareholders is set out on pages 21 to 28 and includes the remuneration policy of the Company and details of directors incentive payments and the related performance criteria.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES At the Annual General Meeting in 2009 the Company was authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 44,860,000 of its own ordinary shares, representing 14.99 per cent of its issued share capital as at March 2009.
The Company did not utilise this authority during the year.
The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A detailed review of the performance of the Groups business is contained in the Chief Executive Ofcers Review and the Chief Financial Ofcers Review.
These statements, together with the Letter from the Chairman and the Report of the Directors, are intended to present a balanced assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 29 and the responsibilities of the auditors are described on page 30.
INTERNAL CONTROLS Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control rests with the Board.
The Board has delegated certain of its powers to the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the systems of control and to receive reports from the auditors internal and external and from the management relating to the interim and annual accounts and the control systems in use throughout the Group.
During the year and up to the date of this report, the Board carried out reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The reviews were undertaken in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance under the following headings and were aimed at clearly identifying the systems already in place and the action plans necessary to improve areas of control weakness.
THE CONTROL ENVIRONMENT Subject to those powers and limits of authority reserved by the Board, and to the Group policies and guidelines they have established, the conduct of the business of the Group is delegated within a clearly dened organisational structure and approved level of authority.
The Board has also adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which has been incorporated into the Employee Handbook issued to all employees.
RISK ASSESSMENT The directors and senior managers are responsible for identifying and monitoring sources of potential business risk and financial risk, and for taking such preventative and protective actions as they consider necessary to manage such risks effectively.
During the year a risk assessment review of the Groups business has been conducted in conjunction with the Executive Committee.
The Board has received and considered this review as part of an annual risk and control assessment.
PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Groups systems are designed to identify and manage rather than eliminate significant business risks, including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business risks are identied, evaluated and managed through functional line management reporting to divisional meetings, Executive Committee meetings and Board meetings as appropriate.
Each member of the Executive Committee is required to highlight and report on any significant business risks identied within their sphere of responsibility.
The key business risks associated with the timely completion of long-term development projects and ongoing business risks, including alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights, are managed by cross-functional teams of senior employees.
Business continuity plans addressing physical risks to the Groups development sites are reviewed and updated at least annually.
The Group has adopted Customer Account Teams grouped within Strategic Business Units SBUs so as to focus the business on customer needs.
The senior managers within the Customer Account Teams also monitor the financial and business risks, including competitor risks, associated with the delivery of agreed plans, reviewing such matters at Business Review Meetings held on a regular basis and attended by members of the Executive Committee.
FINANCIAL CONTROL AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS The Groups strategic direction is reviewed regularly by the Board and plans, budgets and performance targets are reviewed and approved at least annually.
Directors receive monthly summaries of financial results which compare actual performance with targets, together with detailed management reports that identify the reasons for variances and the progress achieved.
Business planning documents are revised on a regular basis in line with actual and expected performance.
CONTROL PROCEDURES Financial control procedures have been developed for all of the main business functions and have been documented in a procedures manual.
Authorisation limits for purchases and capital expenditure are specified and procedures are in place for minimising exposure to potential weaknesses in the receipt, handling and despatch of goods.
The Groups main premises have received accreditation for BSI ISO 9001: 2000.
MONITORING SYSTEMS Monitoring of the internal control systems is carried out by the centralised Group Finance Function.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need to appoint a dedicated internal auditor and during the year the Committee appointed BDO Stoy Hayward to act as internal auditors, performing an agreed programme of internal audits in collaboration with the Companys Head of Risk Assurance and management.
BDO Stoy Hayward attended and presented their reports to each of the Committee meetings during the year.
The Audit Committee also reviews external auditor objectivity and independence and has adopted a formal policy regarding the basis on which the auditors may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
Although no system of internal financial control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that transactions are authorised and completely and accurately recorded, that assets are safeguarded and that material errors, irregularities and actions contrary to Group policies and directions are either prevented or promptly discovered.
GOING CONCERN The directors, having taken account of the Groups available bank facilities and cash resources and having reviewed the Groups budget and forecasts for the period to 31 March 2011, consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
17 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPLOYMENT POLICIES The directors recognise the importance of the Groups employees to its success and future development and are committed to providing an environment that will attract, motivate and reward high quality employees.
The Group continues to invest in a range of internal and external initiatives to promote employee development.
This commitment has been acknowledged by Investors in People IIP recognition.
Employees are kept informed of matters affecting them as employees and factors affecting the performance of the Group through monthly employee meetings briengs and a Company newsletter, Pacesetter.
In the UK, meetings of the Employee Partnership, an elected forum for the discussion of work related issues, are held with members of the Executive Committee at least four times per year.
The Group welcomes applications for employment from all sectors of the community and is striving to promote equality of opportunity in employment regardless of age, sex, sexual orientation, disability or ethnic origin.
It is the Groups policy that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all employees.
In the event that an employee becomes disabled, the Group makes reasonable adjustments where any aspect of premises or working practices puts such a disabled employee at a substantial disadvantage compared with a nondisabled employee.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group has an established Health and Safety Committee made up of health and safety representatives, the health and safety officer and other persons with expert knowledge who review health and safety issues relevant to the Groups business.
Other safety-related committees also conduct periodic reviews of specic work practices.
These actions complement the Health and Safety Executives Working Well Together initiatives adopted and implemented by the Company.
In the UK the health and safety adviser continues to carry on ergonomic risk assessments and developing ergonomic strategies whilst safety representatives and re wardens conduct site inspections.
These activities along with others contribute to the further advancement of local workplace health and safety awareness and improvement.
Generic and detailed risk assessments, chemical assessments and safe systems of work guidance are maintained for the benefit of employees on the Companys Intranet site.
The importance of ongoing health and safety awareness training for managers and safety representatives is recognised.
As part of this process a number of health and safety tool-box talks have been designed to replace the IOSH Managing Safely courses previously provided.
The number of UK workplace accidents during the year was 13 and, as in previous years, none of these was reportable under RIDDOR.
A report concerning health and safety aspects of the Groups business and copies of specic Group safety policy documents can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
CHARITABLE AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT The Group has an established Charitable Donations Committee comprising employees based at the Groups premises in the UK, the USA and France.
The committee, which meets once a month, considers all requests for charitable and community project assistance within a financial budget and criteria approved by the Board on an annual basis.
The Groups support through the committee is focused on the local geographical area of Paces premises in Saltaire, Paris, Bangalore and Boca Raton in Florida, as well as the charitable and community initiatives of Group employees.
The corporate charity policy focus is to support local charities of benefit to the local area and people living close to each Group site.
During the year requests for support were considered by the committee, 129 of these satisfying the criteria and receiving financial support amounting to 45,000.
The participation of employees of the Group in community and charitable activities outside work hours has been encouraged by the provision of funds to match individual sponsorship raised.
PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 18 P REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT During the year the Company set environmental targets and achieved the following outcomes in respect of its chosen measures of environmental impact: Activity ImpactObjective Target Status Comment Supply Chain Improve Supply As part of the partner & supplier Target achieved Conference held in Mar Chain involvement conference include environmental impact 09.
Trial supply chain of supply chain March 2009.
Develop impact assessment and implement a mechanism to measure complete.
and improve supplier environmental performance by Dec 2009.
Product Reduce the Power consumption the hardware Target achieved 100% of applicable environmental design of every Pace product will comply projects are compliant impact of our with or exceed the EU Code of Conduct, with this target.
STBs Energy Star or MEPS guidelines.
In regions where no guidelines exist, Pace will apply the closest guidelines to these areas.
Pace will work with its key partners to drive compliance across all aspects of the final product, including software.
Product Reduce the Packaging all materials used in Ongoing 50% target exceeded.
environmental the packaging of Pace products will impact of our be 100% recyclable.
Pace is setting STBs a minimum standard of 50% of all materials used in packaging to be sourced from recycled materials.
Product Reduce the Hazardous substances Pace is going Ongoing YTD 68% of suppliers environmental beyond current legislation with its own are confirmed compliant impact of our extensive Restricted Substances list.
others expected to be STBs Pace will phase out these additional confirmed by end Q2 Restricted Substances from all future 2010. products going forwards.
Site Operations Reduce CO2 Achieve a measurable reduction in CO2 Not Achieved Scope of footprint emissions from 2008 levels by Jan 2010. has increased due to inclusion of Pace France.
Site Operations Global certication Achieve ISO14001 certication in Pace Ongoing Pace India certication to ISO 14001 India Dec 2009 and Pace France July achieved.
Community Improve local Conduct one volunteer activity per site Ongoing Activity complete in Pace environment by Aug 2009.
Others will be complete in 2010.
Awareness Increase employee Implement an awareness programme Target achieved Programme rolled out environmental focusing on individual employee energy in June by the internal awareness consumption by July 2009. communications team.
The Company has maintained certication to the international management standard ISO 14001 at its Saltaire and Florida sites and for the first time achieved certication at the Bangalore site.
Group Environmental Policy has been applied to all Pace sites worldwide.
The Company is a signatory to the European Code of Conduct on Energy efficiency of Digital TV Service Systems EU Code of Conduct, ENERGY STAR Program Requirements for Set-top Boxes and MEPS Minimum Energy Performance Standard.
Pace is committed to ensure that all products are designed to minimise energy consumption through its design for Environment programme.
The Company continues to monitor the environmental impacts of all its activities, details of which are available from the Company Secretary or the Companys website.
19 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT AUDITORS KPMG Audit Plc held ofce as auditors during the year.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering whether, taken as a whole, the various relationships if any between the Group and the auditors impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement or independence.
Each of the directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirms that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the directors have each taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board has continued to establish and maintain relationships with institutional shareholders and communicates with investors through the Groups web site www.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders is in place at which institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with non-executive directors and analyst presentations are made following announcement of the interim and annual results.
Shareholders are welcome to participate at the Annual General Meeting at which the Board will be available for questions.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 19 April 2010 at the ofces of the Company at Salts Mill, Victoria Road, Saltaire, West Yorkshire, BD18 3LF.
Full details of the business to be transacted at the meeting will be set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS A statement of the responsibilities of the directors is contained on page 29.
The directors whose names appear on pages 12 and 13 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: s THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE SET OF ACCOUNTING STANDARDS GIVE A TRUE and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and s THE 2EPORT OF THE $IRECTORS INCLUDES A FAIR REVIEW OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS AND THE position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Anthony J Dixon Company Secretary 2 March 2010 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 20 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The directors present their report to shareholders on pages 21 to 28 regarding remuneration matters in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for setting the individual remuneration of the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee within the framework of the remuneration policy described below, which is set by the Board.
The Directors who were members of the Committee during the year ending 31 December 2009 were Pat Chapman-Pincher Chairman of the Committee, Mike McTighe and John Grant.
For guidance, the Committee makes use of surveys of executive pay and knowledge of market rates.
The CEO and Director of HR also attended Remuneration Committee meetings during the year by invitation and provided advice to the Committee to enable it to reach informed decisions.
No director was present when their remuneration was being discussed.
The Committee was assisted in its consideration of remuneration matters by Kepler Associates, who were appointed as sole remuneration advisers in September 2008.
Kepler Associates provided no other services to the Group in the year.
Pinsent Masons, legal advisers to the Company, also advised the Committee regarding certain share option related issues.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Board believes that it is necessary to ensure that the remuneration packages of the executive directors remain competitive in order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and senior managers of a high calibre and to reward them for performance.
The policy is for a significant proportion of executive directors total remuneration to be capable of being earned from variable, performance-based incentives, through annual bonuses and share based incentives.
The objective of this policy is to provide rewards and incentives that reect corporate and individual performance and align managements objectives directly with those of the Shareholders.
More than half of an executive directors remuneration is variable and is linked to corporate performance.
The Boards policy in relation to non-executive directors continues to be to pay fees that are competitive with the fees paid by comparable quoted companies.
Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Board as a whole within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Non-executive directors are not eligible for performance bonuses or pension contributions and do not participate in the share option plans.
Non-executive remuneration is generally reviewed annually.
SALARY Basic salary for each executive director is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and information from independent sources on external market salary levels for comparable jobs with a view to salaries being set around the median level for comparable companies.
In setting senior executives salaries, the Committee also takes into account pay and employment conditions in the Group as a whole.
Salary is generally reviewed around the time of commencement of each financial year.
Such a review took place in January 2009 and as a result 2009 salaries of members of the Executive Committee including executive directors were frozen at 2008 levels.
The Committee sought advice from remuneration consultants with regard to the salary review which took place in January 2010 and took into account the signicantly increased turnover and international scale of the Group.
As a result of this review the annual salaries of the executive directors for 2010 were revised as follows: Neil Gaydon 460,000: Stuart Hall 300,000: David McKinney 290,000.
PERFORMANCE BONUS The Company established a non-pensionable performance-related bonus plan for the executive directors and other key members of management for the year ended 31 December 2009, which was based on the successful achievement of corporate and individual objectives.
The corporate objectives were linked to the key drivers of 21 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT value creation for shareholders and the key measure therefore was the profitability of the Group for the full financial year.
Achievement of the 2009 bonus was dependent on the Groups pre-tax profits before certain exceptional items exceeding 25 million with the capacity to earn additional bonus increments upon achievement of higher profit targets up to a ceiling of 38 million.
In addition, a number of individual personal objectives were set for each director and manager, which were aligned with the objectives of the Group for the year.
The maximum bonus achievable by the executive directors in the event that all corporate and individual targets were met was 150% of basic annual salary with one third of any bonus earned being deferred into shares in the Company for a period of two years under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The Committee retained a discretion to reduce the bonus otherwise payable by up to 20% based on their assessment of the management of the Companys cash position during the year.
The Committee, having regard to the performance during the period, determined to award maximum bonus to each of the executive directors under the 2009 annual performance bonus.
In addition, whilst the normal ceiling for such bonus payments remains at 150% of annual salary, as announced in the 2008 Remuneration Report, the Committee offered members of the Executive Committee including executive directors the opportunity to earn an exceptional bonus of up to 100% of annual salary, at the discretion of the Committee, payable only in the event of exceptional Group and individual performance which has secured the delivery of very significant benefit to shareholders.
The Committee intended that such exceptional bonus would be earned only for performance signicantly in excess of that already rewarded through the annual bonus.
The Committee determined to award such an exceptional bonus to each member of the Executive Committee as reward to reect the financial performance of the Company during 2009 which was signicantly in excess of the maximum annual bonus target referred to above.
In the case of the executive directors, each will receive an exceptional bonus equivalent to 100% of annual salary.
This exceptional bonus will be paid in its entirety in shares deferred for 2 years under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan and normally be subject to forfeiture if the executive leaves the Group during this period.
In respect of the 2010 financial year the Committee has reviewed the executive bonus structure with its remuneration advisers and whilst it proposes that the annual bonus will continue to be based primarily on the achievement of Group PBT, the Committee will retain discretion to reduce the bonus otherwise payable to executive directors by up to 20% based on their assessment of the executive directors management of the Companys cash position during 2010.
One third of any earned bonus will continue to be deferred into Pace shares under the Group Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
BENEFITS IN KIND Each executive director is entitled to benets such as the provision of a fully expensed company car plus fuel or cash alternative, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance and where applicable relocation assistance.
PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS In the year ending 31 December 2009, contributions were paid into the executive directors pension schemes at rates determined by the Board.
Contributions have continued to be paid during the current year at the rate of 15% of each directors basic salary.
The Group does not operate any dened benefit schemes.
PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN Following the approval of shareholders at the 2009 AGM, a new Performance Share Plan PSP was introduced, with all Group employees including executive directors eligible to participate.
Under the PSP, employees receive a conditional right to receive shares for no cost, which will normally vest after 3 years subject to continued employment and the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
