58 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Report on directors remuneration continued Main elements of remuneration Total remuneration is made up of fixed and performance-linked elements, with each element supporting different objectives.
Element Objective Performance period Performance conditions Base salary Reflects competitive market Not applicable Normally reviewed annually taking into see page 59 level, role and individual account the remuneration of directors contribution and executives in similar positions in comparable companies, individual performance and the approach to pay across the company as a whole Annual incentives Motivates achievement of One year Subject to achievement of targets for sales, see page 59 annual strategic goals earnings per share or profit, working capital and cash Bonus share Encourages executive directors Three years Subject to achievement of target for earnings matching and other senior executives to per share growth see page 61 acquire and hold Pearson shares.
Aligns executives and shareholders interests Long-term Drives long-term earnings Three years Subject to achievement of targets for relative incentives and share price growth total shareholder return, return on invested see page 62 and value creation.
capital and earnings per share growth Aligns executives and shareholders interests Consistent with its policy, the committee places Benchmarking considerable emphasis on the performance-linked The committee wants our executive directors elements i. e. annual incentives, bonus share matching remuneration to be competitive with those of directors and long-term incentives.
Our assessment of the and executives in similar positions in comparable relative importance of fixed and performance-related companies.
remuneration for each of the directors based on our The policy is that target total direct compensation base policy and the data set out in this report is as follows: salary plus annual and long-term incentives should be set by reference to the UK and US mid-market depending Proportion of total compensation on the relevant market or markets for particular jobs.
Marjorie Scardino 39.3% 32.7% 28.0% We use a range of UK companies in different sectors Will Ethridge 43.4% 35.4% 21.2% including the media sector.
Some are of a similar size to Robin Freestone Pearson, while others are larger, but the method which 40.6% 33.8% 25.6% our independent advisers use to make comparisons on Rona Fairhead remuneration takes this into account.
All have very 43.0% 34.1% 22.9% John Makinson substantial overseas operations.
We also use selected 49.5% 30.7% 19.8% media companies in North America.
Base salary and other xed remuneration including retirement benets We use these companies because they represent Annual incentive and bonus share matching the wider executive talent pool from which we might Long term incentives expect to recruit externally and the pay market to which we might be vulnerable if our remuneration Note The method for valuing the different elements of remuneration is summarised in the table on page 59. was not competitive.
We will continue to review the mix of fixed and Market assessments against the two groups take performance-linked remuneration on an annual basis, account of those factors which Towers Perrins research consistent with our overall philosophy.
shows differentiate remuneration for jobs of a similar nature, such as sales, board membership, reporting relationships and international activities.
