Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy 11 Our world in 2010 That may seem obvious, but dont take it as a business as usual approach.
Were making it ambitious and Last year we faced down tougher markets in some aggressive at every level.
And we expect many to remain tough through this year.
Some of our markets have Our goal is unchanged: To help people make progress cyclical challenges, and all our industries are going in their lives and to thrive in a brain-based economy through a period of significant structural change.
Were reaching for a wide definition of learning, though: one not constrained by age or So naturally, the question weve asked ourselves circumstance or confined to a classroom.
We think is: Can we continue our record of performance in learning never stops: its happening all the time, unpredictable markets and contracting economies?
And were setting out to prove it.
To answer, weve had to stop and review our assumptions and revisit our plans.
But our conclusion Our basic strategy to achieve that grand goal is is a simple truth about demand: No matter what, pursued by all Pearsons businesses in some shape people will still go to school: still need information or form and has four fundamental parts: about markets: still want to escape from their present 1.
To develop high-quality, compelling, trustworthy into someone elses story.
Those are the things we do.
content that customers deem worth paying for: And there is still much to do to further them.
To serve it up not just naked, but with services, are still 72 million children who dont go to school at mostly delivered by technology, to make it more all: still 30 million people who will enter university useful, more valuable, more personal: this year and not ever graduate: still a complex world of business, finance and politics to illuminate and 3.
To work in selected geographic markets that are explain: still buyers for some $70bn worth of books growing and have strong demand for our services: this year and less than 2% of those are eBooks.
To reap cost savings and competitive advantages So much to do.
from Pearsons global scale and the similarities of its Our approach to the task and our business is to stick businesses and processes through efficiencies in our with our strategy and to take a long-term view.
Our strategy Our strategy 3 4 International expansion: Efficiency: Pearson has market-leading positions in major developed Our investments in content, services and new geographic economies particularly the US, UK and Western Europe.
markets are fuelled by steady efficiency gains, often We are already present in more than 60 countries and we generated through Pearsons overall scale.
Since 2005, are investing to become a much larger global education our operating profit margins have increased from 12.8% company, with particular emphasis on fast-growing to 15.3% and our ratio of average working capital to markets in China, India, Africa and Latin America.
Over the sales has improved from 27.4% to 25.1%.
In 2009 our last five years, our international education business has margins fell slightly compared to 2008 due to a decline grown headline sales at an average annual rate of 17%, in advertising, restructuring charges at Penguin and becoming a 1bn business in 2009. transactional exchange losses.
