48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Board governance continued This process reinforced the view that strategy remained The company has purchased and maintains directors a key focus for the board in 2009.
As a direct result of and officers insurance cover against certain legal these discussions, strategic reviews of International liabilities and costs for claims in connection with any Education and Education Technology were held in June act or omission by such directors and officers in the and October respectively and the Pearson strategic plan execution of their duties.
was reviewed and updated in December.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The evaluation of 2009 is currently underway.
There is an extensive programme for the chairman, CEO, The chairman is conducting detailed interviews with executive directors and senior managers to meet with all directors to ensure the board is effectively focused institutional shareholders.
The non-executive directors on its agreed priorities: governance: strategy: business meet informally with shareholders both before and performance and people.
The outcome of this review will after the AGM, and respond to shareholder queries and be discussed at the April 2010 board meeting.
The chairman and senior independent director anticipates using an external advisor for its 2010 review.
make themselves available to meet any significant shareholder as required.
Makinson Cowell and the In addition, during the course of the year the executive companys investor relations department report to the directors were evaluated by the chief executive on board on the results of a comprehensive survey on major their performance against personal objectives under shareholders views.
the companys standard appraisal mechanism.
The chairman leads the assessment of the chief Furthermore, reports on changes in shareholder executive and the senior independent director conducts positions and views are given to the directors at every a review of the chairmans performance.
Directors training Board committees Directors receive a significant bespoke induction The board has established three committees: programme and a range of information about Pearson the audit committee, the personnel committee and the when they join the board.
Chairmen and members of This includes background information on Pearson and these committees are appointed by the board on the details of board procedures, directors responsibilities recommendation where appropriate of the nomination and various governance-related issues, including committee and in consultation with each requisite procedures for dealing in Pearson shares and their legal committee chairman.
The induction also includes a series of meetings with members of the board, Audit committee report presentations regarding the business from senior executives and a briefing on Pearsons investor relations Ken Hydon audit committee chairman programme.
We supplement the existing directors training programme through continuing presentations Members Ken Hydon, David Arculus, Patrick Cescau at board meetings about the companys operations, and Susan Fuhrman by holding board meetings at overseas locations and by encouraging the directors to visit operating companies All of the audit committee members are independent and local management as and when their schedule non-executive directors and have financial and or allows.
Externally run courses are also made available related business experience due to the senior positions should directors wish to make use of them.
they hold or held in other listed or publicly traded companies and or similar public organisations.
Directors indemnities Ken Hydon, chairman of the committee, is the In accordance with section 232 of the Companies Act companys designated financial expert.
He is a fellow 2006 the Act, the company grants an indemnity to all of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, of its directors.
The indemnity relates to costs incurred the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants by them in defending any civil or criminal proceedings and the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He also and in connection with an application for relief under serves as audit committee chairman for Tesco plc, sections 661 3 and 4 or sections 1157 1 - 3 of the Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Royal Berkshire NHS Act, so long as it is repaid not later than when the Foundation Trust.
outcome becomes final if: i they are convicted in the proceedings: ii judgment is given against them: or The qualifications and experience of the other committee iii the court refuses to grant the relief sought.
members are detailed on pages 44 and 45.
Section 5 Governance 49 The committee has written terms of reference which At every meeting, the committee considered reports on clearly set out its authority and duties.
These are the activities of the internal audit function, including reviewed annually and can be found on the company the results of internal audits, risk reviews, project website at i www.
com investors assurance reviews, and fraud and whistleblowing  governance reports.
The committee also monitored the companys financial reporting, internal controls and risk The committee has been established by the board management procedures and considered any significant primarily for the purpose of overseeing the accounting, legal claims and regulatory issues in the context of their financial reporting, internal control and risk management impact on financial reporting.
processes of the company and the audits of the financial statements of the company.
Specifically, the committee considered the following matters during the course of the year: The committee is responsible for assisting the boards oversight of the quality and integrity of the companys The annual report and accounts: preliminary external financial reporting and statements and announcement and trading update: the companys accounting policies and practices.
The Group accounting policies: The Groups internal and external auditors have direct Compliance with the Combined Code: access to the committee to raise any matter of concern and to report on the results of work directed by the The Form 20-F and related disclosures including the committee.
The committee reports to the full board on a annual Sarbanes-Oxley Act 404 attestation of financial regular basis but no less frequently than at every board reporting internal controls: meeting immediately following a committee meeting.
Receipt of external auditor report on Form 20-F and on It also reviews the independence of the external the year end audit: auditors, including services supplied, and ensures that there is an appropriate audit relationship.
Based on Assessment of the effectiveness of the companys managements recommendations, the committee internal control environment: reviews the proposal to reappoint the external auditors.
Reappointment of external auditor: The committee evaluated the performance of the Appointment of new head of Group internal audit external auditors during the year and remains satisfied function: with their effectiveness.
The committee will continue to review the performance of the external auditors on an Review of the interim management statement: annual basis and will consider their independence and Review of the effectiveness of the audit committee and a objectivity, taking account of all appropriate guidelines.
review of both the internal and external auditors: There are no contractual obligations restricting the committees choice of external auditors.
In any event, the Annual approval of the internal audit mandate: external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner Compliance with SEC & NYSE requirements including responsible for the Group audit every five years.
Sarbanes Oxley: The current lead audit partner has been in place Review of interim financial statements and for two years.
announcement: The committee receives regular technical updates as Approval of external audit engagement, scope and fees: well as specific or personal training as required.
Approval of external audit policy: The committee met four times during the year with the chief financial officer, head of Group internal audit, Review of committees terms of reference: members of the senior management team and the Review of link between Pearson and IDCs audit external auditors in attendance.
The committee also met committees: regularly in private with the external auditors and the Annual internal audit plan including resourcing of the head of Group internal audit.
Some members of the internal audit function: committee attended site visits to a number of overseas locations in order to better understand how Group Review of company risk returns including Social, Ethical policies are embedded in operations.
and Environmental SEE risks: and Annual review of treasury policy.
