Financial reporting The head of Group internal audit is jointly responsible There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting with the Group legal counsel for monitoring compliance and forecasting system with an annual operating plan with our Code of Conduct, and investigating any reported approved by the board of directors.
Monthly financial incidents including fraud allegations.
information, including trading results, balance sheets, vi.
Treasury management cash flow statements and indebtedness, is reported The treasury department operates within policies against the corresponding figures for the plan and prior approved by the board and its procedures are reviewed years, with corrective action outlined by operating regularly by the audit committee.
Major transactions company executives as appropriate.
Group senior are authorised outside the department at the requisite management meet, on a quarterly basis, with operating level, and there is an appropriate segregation of duties.
company management to review their business and Frequent reports are made to the chief financial officer financial performance against plan and forecast.
and regular reports are prepared for the audit committee Major business risks relevant to each operating and the board.
company as well as performance against the stated strategic objectives are reviewed in these meetings.
Insurance Insurance is provided through Pearsons insurance In addition, the chief executive prepares a report subsidiary or externally, depending on the scale of the for the board, 11 times a year, on key developments, risk and the availability of cover in the external market, performance and issues in the business.
with the objective of achieving the most cost-effective iv.
Risk management balance between insured and uninsured risks.
Operating companies undertake formal, semi-annual risk reviews to identify new or potentially underGoing concern managed risks.
Throughout the year, risk sessions Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources and facilitated by the head of Group internal audit are held borrowing facilities and the Groups 2010 and 2011 cash with operating company management to identify key flow forecasts, the directors believe that the Group has risks, assess the probability and impact of those risks adequate resources to continue as a going concern.
and document the actions being taken to manage those For this reason, the financial statements have, as usual, risks.
The Pearson Management Committee reviews the been prepared on that basis.
output of these sessions, focusing on the significant risks facing the business.
Management has the Shareholder communication responsibility to consider and execute appropriate action Pearson has an extensive programme of communication to mitigate these risks whenever possible.
The results of with all of its shareholders large and small, these reviews are summarised by Group internal audit institutional and private.
We also make a particular effort for evaluation and onward reporting to the board, in to communicate regularly with our employees, a large summary, and in more detail via the audit committee.
majority of whom are shareholders in the company.
v. Group internal audit We post all company announcements on our website, The Group internal audit function is responsible for i www.
com, as soon as they are released, and providing independent assurance to management on the major shareholder presentations are made accessible effectiveness of internal controls.
The annual internal via webcast or conference call.
Our website contains a audit plan, derived from a risk model, is approved by dedicated investor relations section with an extensive the audit committee.
Recommendations to improve archive of past announcements and presentations, internal controls and to mitigate risks, or both, are historical financial performance, share price data and a agreed with operating company management after each calendar of events.
It also includes information about all audit.
Formal follow-up procedures allow Group internal of our businesses, links to their websites and details of audit to monitor operating companies progress in our corporate responsibility policies and activities.
implementing its recommendations and to resolve any We have an established programme of educational control deficiencies.
The Group internal audit function seminars for our institutional shareholders focusing on also has a remit to monitor significant Group projects, individual parts of Pearson.
These seminars are available in conjunction with the central project management to all shareholders via webcast on i www.
com office, to provide assurance that appropriate project governance and risk management strategies are in place.
Regular reports on the work of Group internal audit are provided to executive management and, via the audit committee, to the board.
