12 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Pearsons strategy: Marjorie Scardino, chief executive continued Who are we now?
Were still proud to have strong roots in the UK, our historic home market, and in North America, home Based on that goal and strategy, you should look to our largest concentration of business and people.
out for many things that will continue to change in But Pearson is becoming an ever more international Pearson: our focus on consumers: our participation company in our mix of business and maybe more in more links of the chain of formal learning: our importantly in our attitude.
Even though weve interest in training not only the minds of citizens, but been growing well in the US, over the past five years also the skills of 21st-Century workers: our take-up of Pearsons sales outside America have grown 11% per opportunities all over the world.
year on average and our profits outside America The 2009 results written up in this report are already now amount to more than 250m, one-third of our just footnotes to history.
Perhaps more important to operating profit.
you as you think about Pearsons future should be those things that are changing, because I believe Growth in services businesses Pearson worldwide testing revenues $m Pearson today may not be quite the company that you think we are.
09 $1,641m Were still a publishing company and convinced 08 $1,578m that quality content is valuable.
But today were 07 $1,247m also a digital services company, and that change 06 $1,039m is responsible for our market share and efficiency 05 $837m as well as our growth opportunities.
In 2009, about a third of our sales came from digital products and services.
Over the past five years, our For some years now, our strategy has been yielding digital revenues have grown at an average annual a virtuous circle of competitive advantage, strong rate of 19%.
Seven years ago, our testing and financial results and heavy investment in new qualifications businesses a good example of our products.
For now we believe that circle is spinning, providing education services, rather than products but we cant count on its continuing.
Thats why we had sales of less than 200m.
This past year, they have to keep making changes of emphasis.
Rapid growth in emerging markets Pearson revenues $m 09 Middle East $648m 08 Central Latin America $513m 07 Africa $471m 06 India $348m China Hong Kong 05 $304m
