Always learning Principal offices worldwide Pearson UK Financial Times Group Pearson is a world-leading education company, in the broadest 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, UK Number One Southwark Bridge, sense of that word.
We have a very simple goal: to help people T 44 0 20 7010 2000 London SE1 9HL, UK get on in their lives through education.
We aim to serve the citizens F 44 0 20 7010 6060 T 44 0 20 7873 3000 of our brain-based global economy wherever and whenever they firstname.
com F 44 0 20 7873 3076 are learning old or young, at home or school or work, in any www.
com Pearson plc Registered number 53723 England Have you tried learning about Pearson online?
com 1 Browse, download or print our interactive online annual report at 2 www.
com investor ar2009 Take a virtual tour at www.
com pearsonville 3 Notes Reliance on this document trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall Our Business Review on pages 8 to 43 has been prepared market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, in accordance with the Directors Report Business Review the availability of financing, anticipated costs savings Requirements of section 417 of the Companies Act 2006. and synergies and the execution of Pearsons strategy, are It also incorporates much of the guidance set out in the forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement on statements involve risks and uncertainties because they the Operating and Financial Review.
relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of factors which could The intention of this document is to provide information to Design and Production: Radley Yeldar London ry.
com cause actual results and developments to differ materially shareholders and is not designed to be relied upon by any Print: Beacon Press from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking other party or for any other purpose.
statements, including a number of factors outside Pearsons 2 Pearson has supported the planting of 1,750m of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping to capture and store control.
Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the Forward-looking statements 70 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions generated by the production of this report.
date they are made, and Pearson gives no undertaking to This document contains forward-looking statements which update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes The cover of this report has been printed on Cocoon Silk 100 which is FSC certified and contains 100% recycled fide-inked waste are made by the directors in good faith based on information in its expectations with regard thereto or any changes to paper.
The text pages are printed on Cocoon Offset which is also made from 100% recycled fibres.
This report was printed using available to them at the time of approval of this report.
In events, conditions or circumstances on which any such vegetable oil based inks and 100% renewable energy by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations statement is based.
management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme.
and projections with respect to future matters, including
