Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 27 Interactive Data continued to invest in expanding Interactive Datas full year earnings announcement the breadth and depth of the data covered and and outlook for 2010 is available at: products offered.
Pricing and Reference Data added www.
com new information resources, transparency tools, and On 15 January 2010, Pearson and Interactive Data broader coverage of hard-to-value instruments.
announced that Interactive Datas Board of Directors It also introduced new services such as the Business is conducting a preliminary review of strategic Entity Service and Options Volatility Service aimed alternatives for the Company.
As previously stated, at helping firms address risk management and there can be no assurance on the potential outcome compliance challenges.
In Real-Time Services, or timing of this review process.
investments were aimed at expanding market coverage to include a broader range of emerging markets, level 2 data for a variety of global exchanges, and multi-lateral trading facilities.
New product launches in this business included PlusBook, a new consolidated order book service for the European financial industry, and enhancements to the PrimePortal product, which are used to create customised Web solutions for wealth management and infomedia applications.
eSignal introduced new services and enhanced existing offerings such as its Market-Q browser-based workstation, which has been well received in the North American wealth management market.
Interactive Data made a number of bolt-on acquisitions in late 2009 and into early 2010 including: the data and tools assets of Dow Jones and Companys OFS business, which expands the growing web-based solutions business in North America: Dubai-based Telerate Systems Limited completed on 14 January 2010, a long-time eSignal sales agent: and 7ticks completed on 15 January 2010, an innovative provider of very fast electronic trading networks and managed services.
