Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 23 Professional Education Our Professional Education business is Professional Education: Key performance indicators focused on testing and certifying adults to become professionals: and on publishing 2009 2008 Headline CER Underlying millions growth growth growth and other learning programmes for Sales 275 244 13% 1 % 1 % professionals in business and technology.
Adjusted Over the past five years, we have increased 43 36 19% 8% 8% operating profit sales in this division at a compound annual rate of 8% and operating profit from a profit of 2m in 2005 to a profit of 43m in 2009.
Over that period, we significantly Professional publishing Highlights in 2009 include: re-oriented our professional publishing Our Professional education business experienced businesses towards digital products and tough trading conditions in the retail market but sales channels and built professional benefited from the increased breadth of its publishing testing into a profitable industry leader.
and range of revenue streams, from online retail through digital subscriptions.
We expect these businesses to benefit from rising demand for work-related skills A best-selling product in 2009 was CCNA Network and qualifications in both developed Simulator, which are digital networking labs designed, developed and published by Pearson, and developing markets: and from close to help candidates successfully pass the Cisco CCNA connections with professional content certification exam.
and customers in other parts of Pearson.
Pearson launched new learning solutions for IT Professionals preparing for certification accreditation.
Professional testing and certification Cert Flash Card applications were launched for students Highlights in 2009 include: studying for Cisco CCNA, CompTIA and Microsoft In the UK, we extended our contract with the Driving certification exams and are accessible through web Standards Agency to deliver the UK drivers theory browsers and iPhone and iPod Touch devices.
With the Graduate Management FT Press launched a new e-publishing imprint, FT Press Admissions Test and the recent contract extension Delivers, providing essential insights from some of for the NCLEX nursing examination, our three largest its leading business authors including Jim Champy, professional testing contracts now run to 2013 or Brian Solis, Mark Zandi, Jon M. Huntsman, John Kao, after.
More than seven million secure online tests Michael Abrashoff, and Seth Goldman.
were delivered in more than 4,000 test centres worldwide in 2009, an increase of 9% over 2008.
Registration volumes for the Graduate Management Admissions Council test rose 8% worldwide in 2009, including a 16% increase outside the US.
In the US, Pearson VUE won a number of new contracts with organisations including Oracle, Citrix, Novell, VMWare, and Adobe, the National Registry of Food Safety Professionals and the National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies.
Pearson VUE extended its international reach, signing an agreement with the Dubai Road and Transport Authority to deliver a new, high-tech Driver Testing System and launching the Law School Admission Test in India.
