16 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 North American Education North American Education is Pearsons North American Education: Key performance indicators largest business, with 2009 sales of 2.5bn and operating profit of 403m.
Over the 2009 2008 Headline CER Underlying millions growth growth growth past five years, it has increased both sales Sales 2,470 2,002 23% 5% 5% and profits at a compound annual growth Adjusted rate of 8%.
Building on our roots as a 403 303 33% 13% 13% operating profit leading publisher of educational materials and provider of assessment services, we have made significant investments and US combined school and college sales growth vs industry change to transform Pearson into a worldleading provider of learning technologies Pearson % for students and enterprise technologies 09 4.9% for educational institutions.
08 1.8% Industry % These technology services including eCollege 09 0.2 % 3.5m student users in 2009, PowerSchool 8.5m, 08 0.2 % the MyLabs 6m and Edustructures 8.1m are the backbone of our strategy to help educators raise Pearsons total year-on-year sales growth in school and college products in the US versus the year on year sales growth of the total US industry.
student performance and institutions to become more effective.
We are currently developing a new generation of powerful technologies to integrate Adoption cycle win rates student information, assessment, instruction and performance data into connected learning Win rate % environments, for students and institutions at all 09 37% levels of education.
08 31% In 2009, our combined US school curriculum Pearsons market share by value of new business in the US adoption states.
Market share is quoted as a percentage of the total value of adoptions that and higher education businesses grew 5% on an we participated in.
underlying basis, once again outperforming the industry which was flat, according to the Association of American Publishers.
We also achieved good State and national testing contract win rates margin improvement, benefiting from the growth of our higher education business and the successful Win rate % integration of the Harcourt Assessment business 09 60% acquired in 2008.
08 47% The lifetime value of US school testing contracts won by Pearson this year as a percentage of the total lifetime value of contracts bid for this year.
Online learning users Registrations no.
09 5,551,215 08 4,040,370 The number of registrations by students to access one of our US online learning programmes.
Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 17 The education publishing industry is going through Our sustained investment in content and technology a period of significant structural change driven by continues to grow existing franchises and build the demand for high educational standards and new ones.
In Engineering Mechanics, our market accountability, the shift from print to digital products leading textbook Hibbelers Statics and Dynamics and a rapidly changing competitive environment.
12th Edition gained an additional four percentage points of market share with the addition of our newly Though the current economic climate has placed launched MasteringEngineering digital learning and considerable pressure on state and local tax receipts assessment platform.
Pearson became market leader and therefore education funding raising student in psychology supported by the recently launched achievement remains a key priority across the textbook Psychology 2nd Edition by Cicarelli with political spectrum in the US.
In particular, the federal MyPsychLab.
governments education reform proposals contain a range of measures designed to raise standards: use Custom Solutions grew strongly across both bespoke student data to improve classroom instruction: boost books and customised services including content the quality of teachers and school leaders: and turn creation, technology, curriculum, assessments and around the lowest-performing schools.
We partnered with the Kentucky Virtual Learning Initiative, for example, to deliver personalised mathematics instruction mapped to state college entry Higher Education Highlights in 2009 include: standards and have begun to extend this programme The US Higher Education publishing market grew into transitional English and Reading.
11.5% in 2009, according to the Association of American Publishers.
The industry benefited from eCollege strong enrolment growth and federal government action to support student funding.
eCollege, our platform for fully-online distance learning in higher education, increased online Pearson grew faster than the industry and outperformed the market for the eleventh straight year, continuing to enrolments by 36% to 3.5m and benefited from continued strong renewal rates of approximately see strong demand for instructional materials enhanced by technology and customisation.
95% by value, new contract wins and strong growth in the usage of the platform, particularly by US forprofit colleges.
The MyLabs Pearsons MyLab digital learning, homework and assessment programmes again grew strongly.
Our MyLab products saw more than 6m student registrations globally, 39% higher than in 2008.
In North America, student registrations grew 37% to more than 5.6m.
Evaluation studies show that the use of the MyLab programmes can significantly improve student test scores and institutional productivity.
Thirteen Pearson higher education and school products in ten categories were nominated as America's best educational software products in the Software & Information Industry Associations 25th Annual CODiE Awards.
They include MyMathLab, Miller & Levine Biology, PowerSchool, Prentice Hall Literature, myWorld Geography, MyWritingLab, CourseConnect and eCollege.
com 18 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 North American Education continued Assessment and Information Our Student Information Systems SIS business Highlights in 2009 include: continued to grow strongly, benefiting from strong demand for its services that help teachers automate Significant profit increase in Assessment and and manage student attendance records, gradebooks, Information, benefiting from the successful timetables and the like.
It supports more than integration of the Harcourt Assessment business 12 million students 8 million of them through its acquired in 2008. flagship PowerSchool product which is now available Our National Services assessment business renewed in more than 50 countries.
In 2009 it won contracts its contract with the College Board, worth $210m over for new school districts including Nova Scotia 10 years, to process and score the SAT and contracts Department of Education 133,000 students, Newark, to support the College Boards new Readi-Step and NJ 45,000 students, and the Hamilton County DOE, ACCUPLACER diagnostics programmes.
Our State Services business won a number of significant new contracts including new programmes School Curriculum Highlights in 2009 include: in Florida and Arizona.
We continue to gain share, The US School publishing market declined 13.8% winning 60% of the contracts bid for by value, and in 2009, according to the Association of American to be a leader in online testing, delivering 9 million Publishers.
State budget pressures and a slower new secure online assessments in 2009, up more than adoption year caused particular weakness in the 100% on 2008. basal publishing market.
Our Evaluation Systems teacher certification business secured contract extensions in California, Illinois, US School publishing Arizona and Washington: won re-bids in Michigan and New York, each for five years: and added new Though Pearsons US School publishing sales contracts in California and Minnesota.
declined, we significantly outperformed the industry and took an estimated 37% of new In Clinical Assessments, our AIMSWeb  data management and progress adoptions competed for our highest market share for a decade and 32% of the total new monitoring service for children who are having difficulty learning, continued to grow and now has adoption market.
more than 3 million students on the system.
Pearsons enVisionMATH, an integrated printOur Edustructures business, which provides and-digital programme, was the top-selling basal interoperable systems to support data collection programme in the US in 2009.
It helped Pearson to and reporting between school districts and state a market-leading 46% share of all maths adoptions governments, doubled the number of students and sold strongly across the open territories.
com Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 19 We successfully launched new blended digital Poptropica curriculum programmes for the 2010 adoption campaign: Poptropica became one of the largest virtual worlds for young children in the US, with unique visitors i Interactive Science www.
com growing by more than 100%, to almost 70 million, Prentice Hall Mathematics www.
com and the numbers of characters they have created www.
com live customer central microsite connectedsampling overview nat lit player.
html Successnet, our online learning platform for teachers and students which supports Pearsons digital instruction, assessment and remedial programmes, grew strongly, achieving more than 4 million registrations in 2009. i See more at www.
