28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Penguin Penguin is one of the most famous Penguin Group: Key performance indicators brands in book publishing, known around the world for the quality of its publishing 2009 2008 Headline CER Underlying millions growth growth growth and its consistent record of innovation.
Sales 1,002 903 11% 1 % 2 % Over the past five years, Penguins sales Adjusted have increased at an average rate of 2% 84 93 10 % 17 % 19 % operating profit and profits at 5% the result of a plan to generate significant margin improvement.
US bestsellers That plan has four major parts: 1.
Investing consistently and in a disciplined way in Bestsellers no.
Developing a globally co-ordinated publishing organisation, benefiting from worldwide scale and The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the US New York Times.
rapid rates of growth in literacy, education and demand for books in emerging markets: UK bestsellers 3.
Innovating with digital technologies to provide new reading experiences, new ways to market, new sales Bestsellers no.
channels, and more efficient means of production, 09 46 storage and distribution of content: 08 67 4.
Becoming a more efficient organisation, focusing The number of Penguin books entering the Top Ten bestseller lists in the on margin progression, working capital discipline UK Neilson BookScan Top Ten.
In 2009, Penguin successfully implemented a series of organisational changes eBook sales in the UK designed to strengthen its publishing, reduce costs and accelerate the transition to digital Sales % production, sales channels and formats, and to lower 09 2.3% cost markets for design and production.
Penguins 08 0.5% 2009 results include approximately 9m of charges relating to these organisational changes.
Penguin global eBook sales as a percentage of Penguin Group net sales.
Penguin operates in 15 countries across the globe and has significant exposure to a wide range of currencies including the US and Australian dollars.
In 2009, currency translation boosted revenues by 109m and adjusted operating profits by 13m compared to 2008.
Adjusted operating profits were reduced by a transaction exchange loss of 6m.
Looking ahead, Penguins strategy involves further investment in publishing in both established and emerging markets, in continued digital innovation and in efficiency improvements, as it seeks to build on its strong competitive position and accelerate sales growth.
Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 29 Penguin Highlights in 2009 include: In Australia, Penguin was named Publisher of the Year for the second year running at the Australian Book Industry Awards.
#1 bestselling authors included ebooks Bryce Courtenay, Tom Winton, Clive Cussler and Richelle Mead.
eBook sales grew fourfold In Canada, top-selling local authors included Joseph on the previous year.
Boyden and Alice Munro, who was awarded the 14,000 eBook titles are now International Man Booker prize, and our international available.
eBook sales are authors Greg Mortenson and Elizabeth Gilbert led the expected to grow rapidly in paperback non-fiction category.
2010, benefiting from the popularity of e-readers such In India, Penguin is the largest English language trade as Amazons Kindle, the publisher, with bestselling authors in 2009 including Sony Reader and Barnes Narayana Murthy and Nandan Nilekani.
and Nobles nook as well In South Africa, top-selling Penguin authors included as new devices such as John van fide Ruit and Justin Bonello.
2010 highlights In 2010, Penguin will publish major books including 2009 bestsellers Our Kind of Traitor by John le Carre, two books from chef Jamie Oliver Jamie Does and 20 Minute In the US, Penguin had 30 #1 New York Times Meals, A Passion for Design by Barbra Streisand, bestsellers, Penguins most ever, and placed 243 The Weekend That Changed Wall Street by CNBCs bestsellers on New York Times lists.
Bestsellers Maria Bartiromo, and a new series of paperbacks included debut novels such as Kathryn Stocketts entitled Penguin Decades as part of Penguins The Help and Janice Y. K. Lees The Piano Teacher, 75th birthday celebration.
Penguin Chinas English along with books by established authors such as language publishing programme will launch in Charlaine Harris and Nora Roberts.
2010, with books including Shanghai: A History in Photographs 1842 Today.
In the UK, top-selling titles included Marian Keyes This Charming Man, Malcolm Gladwells Outliers, Ant and Decs Ooh!
What a Lovely Pair and Antony Beevors D-Day.
Penguin Childrens list had a very strong year with standout performances from brands such as The Very Hungry Caterpillar which celebrated its 40th anniversary and Peppa Pig.
Through an iPhone app, consumers were offered a try-before-youbuy model of Paul Hoffmans The Left Hand of God, providing free downloads of the first three chapters.
