36 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Our impact on society At the end of 2009, Sir David Bell retired Our strategy: Four key areas as Pearsons director for people and also as the board director with oversight of 1 Product quality and impact corporate responsibility.
In his 39 years at 2 Valuing our people the company David did a huge amount to define what corporate responsibility means 3 Sustainable business practice for Pearson and I am very pleased to take on 4 Active citizenship the role and to try to continue Davids work in this field.
It has always struck me that the We report each year in conjunction with our annual idea of being a responsible business one financial results, so that our people and our other that makes a positive contribution to society stakeholders can review our activity across the through effective learning, great books and company and all over the world.
Youll find a table powerful journalism is in many ways the of last years targets and the new ones for 2010 at essence of Pearson.
the end of this section and a fuller overview of our work over last year in our Always learning: Our impact on society 2009 report.
Our corporate website will also be updated throughout the year if youd like to read more about our work and projects in detail, and our Facebook page is regularly refreshed with examples of our CR and sustainability work from our businesses all over the world.
Please feel free to share any comments and suggestions with me at robin.
com Robin Freestone Robin Freestone Chief financial officer It starts with being a values-based organisation Board member responsible in our words, one that is brave, imaginative and for corporate responsibility decent.
It is not about what we say but about how we behave across our large, complex and diverse organisation.
The kinds of businesses that were Our strategy in and the products that we make depend on our earning and constantly re-earning the trust of our 1 Product quality and impact readers, teachers and students for quality, accuracy and independence.
We are proud of Pearsons long Across Pearson, our brands have a hard-won history as a responsible business, but we always reputation for quality: whether that is the FT for feel that there is much more for us to do.
accurate, insightful and independent business Pearson will continue to be that values-led company, journalism: Penguin for high-quality books of fiction placing enormous importance on the impact and non-fiction: or our education company for we have on the world through our products and effective learning materials.
We are as determined to enhance the We are a major investor in new content, new learning experiences of our students of all ages and services, new technologies: in 2009, we invested walks of life as we are to reduce our impact on the approximately $800m in product development.
Our goal remains simple: to be a socially We adhere to external codes like those upheld by responsible company that has a positive impact on the Press Complaints Commission, supplemented society.
We focus on our impact in four key areas: by our own internal standards, and our editors and Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 4 Our impact on society 37 journalists have freedom to make their own content results of 7,000 students from an average score choices within those frameworks.
We partner with of 35% in the first semester to 65% in the second.
independent research agencies to measure the Pearson Southern Africas Maskew Miller Longman effectiveness of our educational products in raising Foundation is also working with the Ministry of student performance and institutional productivity, Education in four provinces, identifying ten of the and we have a range of processes for engaging with poorest schools in the country to support intensively our customers and other stakeholders to gain their over the next three years with textbook provision insights into how we can serve them better.
At the same time, we want to ensure that people Business information: The Financial Times newspaper can access our books, newspapers and services in and FT. com continue to adhere to high standards of whatever way suits them best and we work hard to ethical and professional journalism.
The FTs code make that happen.
For example, we have become of practice for financial and business journalism goes a major provider of technology services, with digital beyond the standards set by Britains Press Complaint revenues of 1.7bn in 2009.
That transformation has Commission, and compliance with the code is an made our content and technology much more widely obligation for all FT staff.
This year, the FT has sought available and accessible for example through to further embrace the shift to digital rather than the 1.8m registered users of FT. com: the millions of paper-based media, now used by many of our readers buyers of Penguin eBooks: the 8.5m college students across the globe.
In 2000, around two-thirds of the FT using our online homework programmes.
In 2009, digital businesses represented over 73%.
Since launching 2009 highlights include: on Amazons Kindle, the FT has seen steady growth Education: in subscriptions and remains one of the top selling newspapers on the mobile device.
The FT Facebook We have been working to connect our products and page has also gone from strength to strength, with services to provide integrated learning platforms, Fans of the page numbering well over 21,000 across systems that make teaching more efficient and all continents.
In the US, our recentlylaunched Project Tapestry is allowing teachers Consumer publishing: Penguins long and proud to connect the dots between student data, history of championing free speech runs from our analytics, content and curriculum.
Educators can 1960s publication of Lady Chatterleys Lover right view up-to-the-minute snapshots and in-depth through to our more recent publication of Professor analysis of each students progress.
This is the first Deborah Lipstadts Denying the Holocaust.
In 2009, connected learning environment built specifically continuing this tradition, Penguin became a Silver for the US school market, the product of Pearsons PEN partner in the UK and was the proud sponsor collaboration with over 500 key education partners.
of the 2009 PEN World Voices festival in New York, the worlds oldest international literary and human In response to the alarming school drop-out rights organisation.
We adhere to high standards of problem in the US, we also launched Prevent, a publishing around the world, taking care to protect software programme which aggregates the most the efforts of our authors and our copyright and relevant and predictive student information data trademarks.
Penguin Group continues to support to pinpoint which students are most likely to drop authors and publish books that raise awareness out of school.
This early warning system helps of environmental themes and global crises.
One teachers determine where best to prioritise their important book this year was Rough Guides Clean time to prevent students leaving school without Breaks: 500 new ways to see the world by Richard a qualification.
co. uk and We are continuing to take highly effective learning Jeremy Smith former editor of The Ecologist, winner programmes and apply them around the world.
coms Book of the Year award 2009.
Our online homework and assessment services for This book is the result of over a decade of travel, college students, the MyLabs, are now used by 6 researching holidays that have less of an impact million college students in America and close to on the environment and genuinely give something 500,000 in more than 60 countries.
In South Africa, back to the destination, through conservation and or for example, our longitudinal study to determine supporting local economies.
the impact of MyMathLab at the University of Witwatersrand showed that the Lab has improved 38 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Our impact on society continued We will always seek the best candidates for a role 2 Valuing our people without regard for race, gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual orientation, and have targets We work hard to attract and retain the most talented, for tracking our progress on specific elements of diverse workforce we can in all parts of Pearson.
We will make reasonable adjustment to Our people are the source of many of our best ideas premises or employment arrangements if these and were getting better at enabling the crosssubstantially disadvantage a disabled current or fertilisation of ideas across our business groups prospective member of staff, and make every effort and departments via social media and other means.
to locate a suitable alternative role and or training Our People departments have focused particularly on for people unable to continue in their existing role the professional development, health and wellbeing due to disability.
Our diversity and inclusion teams of Pearson people this year, with several businesses on both sides of the Atlantic continue to develop highlighting Pearson-subsidised promotions and our internship programmes for minority groups, opportunities available to staff.
We have a Group level winning the Gold Standard in the 2009 Race for health and safety policy, with numerous awareness Opportunity Benchmarking survey on race equality days and other good practice examples at work across in UK organisations.
We continue to improve on our offices.
We have also paid particular attention our recruitment and promotion of executives to developing emerging leaders in our developing from minority backgrounds to middle and senior markets, running more training and leadership events management levels, and feel that we still have much and courses in Asia and India in 2009, including our to achieve in this area.
new Emerging Leaders Programme this year.
We are further developing our communications programme Health and wellbeing: Our company can only be as to include greater interactivity and collaboration healthy as our people, and we encourage our people between our global staff through online meetings to stay fit, eat well and balance their professional and webinars, to add to the suite of large-scale and personal lives.
Pearson Benefits in the US presentations from senior managers to staff around sponsored National Employee Health and Fitness the world and informal talks and seminars from Day in May 2009.
All US facilities with 50 or more colleagues around the business.
people participated in on-site biometric screenings.
The results were available immediately and over The following table shows for 2009 and 2008 the 2,300 staff had an opportunity to participate and average number of people employed in each of our discuss their numbers with onsite nurse educators.
At Pearson in the UK, additional benefits will be in place for 2010 including a Weightwatchers programme Average number employed 2009 2008 in the workplace, health assessments and two online 15,606 15,412 Pearson Education North America health management programmes to help anyone seeking to reduce high blood pressure, combat raised Pearson Education International 8,899 5,718 cholesterol or manage their health more effectively.
Professional 2,662 2,641 People for the future: We have a lot of talented FT Group 4,787 4,792 people at every level of our company and we strive Penguin 4,163 4,112 to identify, nurture and promote them in a number of ways.
Our annual Forum brings together more Corporate 1,047 909 than 100 of our newest and brightest managers from 37,164 33,584 Continuing businesses all over the world for a three-day session with the Discontinued businesses 0 96 Pearson Management Committee and other senior managers, working on product innovation and Total 37,164 33,680 better integration of the content and assets across the company.
We launched our Emerging Leaders 2009 highlights include: Programme in 2009, bringing together people from different businesses within one region to address Diversity and inclusion: We try hard to reflect the organisational and team challenges.
72 Pearson societies in which we operate and while we dont set people completed this programme in London, New specific targets, we strive to have as diverse a pool York, Hong Kong and Minnesota and in total, we ran of applicants for our jobs and suppliers as we can.
589 personal days of leadership development in 2009.
Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 4 Our impact on society 39 electricity use at Old Tappan by 295,000 KwH each 3 Sustainable business practice year, the equivalent of planting about 125,000 trees over the 25-year life of the panels.
Pearson undertook in 2007 to become a climate neutral company by the end of 2009.
We have reached Developing our emerging markets: By sharing best our target through a series of direct actions, including: practice across Pearson, we can be more effective energy purchase and usage, investment in our in our actions as a good corporate citizen in our buildings, communications and transport, and in the developing markets.
Penguin India has taken a purchase of offset activity related to trees, the main number of freight initiatives which have saved a raw material for our books and newspapers.
significant amount of fuel expenditure, increasing We continue to work on our supply chain to find the the number of books printed in India on behalf of most  way of producing the Penguin UK, Penguin USA, Sterling and Bloomsbury to books and newspapers we print, actively seeking an avoid the carbon emissions from moving 95 tonnes of FSC chain of custody for our paper supplies in the US for books from the UK USA to India.
Penguin India is also next year.
We have been included in FTSE4Good indices forming an association with other companies in the since their inception and place great importance on community in Panchsheel to lobby government bodies not compromising our standards of quality or causing to resolve issues such as poor parking facilities, faulty harm to our suppliers and their workers, wherever they drainage and generators adding to the pollution and may be in the world.
We are committed to complying health and safety concerns in the area.
The formation with the laws and regulations in all countries in which of Pearson Southern Africa bringing together our we operate, and work hard to build local partnerships education businesses in the region means our as an active corporate citizen in emerging markets.
company is now active in 12 developing countries In this years global analysis of corporate sustainability in the region and employs, trains and develops leadership by investment company SAM, Pearson was local staff in each.
By underpinning our educational rated as the lead company of the Media supersector and commercial imperative, with respect for the for the third year running as part of the Dow Jones African environment, we can use our position as Sustainability World Index.
We were also classified as market leader to promote education in local cultures one of 100 Brand Emissions Leaders out of 600 brands and languages to maintain a sustainable, socially surveyed by Environmental Data Services magazine, responsible business.
citing our ambitious carbon reduction targets and Staff activity: Green Teams of volunteers are growing strong disclosure.
Our chief financial officer now has in size, structure and activity at various Pearson board responsibility for matters relating to corporate offices in India, the US, Australia, the UK, Canada and responsibility.
Several teams have also named specific Green Champions within their areas, tasking 2009 highlights include: colleagues to help each other understand the small Reducing our impact: In 2009, Pearson signed up to steps they can each take to make a big difference to 1 the Copenhagen Communiqu, pledging to reduce our reducing the environmental impact of their department environmental impact while lobbying governments to or building.
Planet Pearson a cross-company create an effective international climate framework.
environmental intranet site launched in 2008 as a pilot Our formal environmental policy has been reviewed in the US continues to expand in usage across our and updated a number of times since its launch in businesses in the US and Canada.
The site serves as a 1992, most recently in 2008, which you can read in full communications hub where Pearson people can share at www.
We completed the ideas, resources and suggestions on the many ecoswitch to the international environmental management friendly initiatives taking place around the company.
standard ISO 14001 for all operating businesses It has already helped significantly to raise awareness in the UK, and our businesses in Australia aim to Pearson North Americas recent Go Green Survey achieve certification in 2010.
We committed to the showed that 95% of respondents think it is important Carbon Standard as part of our response to the Carbon to work for a Green employer, and 80% were aware Reduction Commitment, and have reduced our paper of the company goal to be climate neutral by the end requirements at both Pearson North America and of 2009. the FT. At Old Tappan, New Jersey our first on-site renewable energy project for Pearson worldwide the 1 The Copenhagen Communiqu was a short statement from the global installation of solar panels is expected to reduce our business community to international governments, synthesising some of the key thinking that has come from business over the last two years.
40 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Our impact on society continued Pearson people power: Our staff are passionate about 4 Active citizenship volunteering, with many taking part in the organised reading schemes and other community programmes Pearsons people are some of the most active citizens we offer at company level, in partnership with local you will meet.
We match their fundraising wherever organisations.
This year, more than 200 Pearson UK we can and run a number of volunteer schemes for people volunteered in schools local to our offices, staff to give some of their working day to community reading with primary school children once a week as programmes.
Everything the Pearson Foundation, our 3 part of Booktime.
In 2008 09, our Booktime volunteers charitable arm, does promotes literacy and education gave over 4,000 hours of their time to help children on a global scale, working with partner organisations enjoy reading.
We held our Pearson Community to help level the playing field for those without ready Awards under the chairmanship of our new director access to education.
In 2009, Pearsons charitable for people, Robin Baliszewski, and learned of the giving totalled 10.5m 2008: 7.7m.
We give in a hundreds of people across our company taking on variety of ways, including provision of in-kind support charitable endeavours in their spare time.
The variety such as books, website hosting, digital solutions and of activities included running winter clothing drives publishing expertise, as well as providing opportunities for the homeless, delivering emergency veterinary for staff to support their personal choice of charity care for abandoned animals, performing as a clown in through payroll giving schemes.
public hospitals and teaching at a community project for young refugees and migrants.
We celebrated seven 2009 highlights include: of those volunteers through our annual awards, making The Pearson Foundation: Our Foundation allows a donation of $2,000 to their chosen charity and giving us to promote education on an international level, certificates of Special Commendation to three other partnering with other leading businesses and not-forvolunteer groups.
profit organisations to extend educational opportunity.
Corporate engagement: Each operating company We bring together experts to share good practice, to has a number of different initiatives theyre involved foster innovation and try to find workable solutions to in, each promoting literacy in one way or another.
the educational disadvantage facing millions of young We support local schools and colleges, promote or people and adults across the globe.
sponsor conferences, and form partnerships with other In 2009, we continued our sponsorship of the organisations with similar aims.
In partnership with annual Citi-FT Financial Education Summit, held in UK charity Booktrust and the Department for Children, Singapore this year, and we organised the second Schools and Families, Pearson gave out 750,000 free Pearson International Education Summit in Helsinki, in Booktime book packs to every child starting school conjunction with the US Council of Chief State School in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland this year, 2 Officers.
Our US flagship literacy campaign, Jumpstarts each containing Ed Veres Mr Big.
Children in England Read for the Record continued to expand in 2009, as also received a copy of the Booktime Book of Fantastic Pearson people around the world helped once again First Poems, edited by June Crebbin.
Building on the break our own record for the worlds largest shared success of last years UK event, the Penguin Group reading experience and raise funds for early education staged its first global Penguin Walk, involving over in low-income communities.
More than two million 1,000 staff members around the world to raise funds participants read Eric Carles classic The Very Hungry for the UN Environmental Programmes Plant a Billion Caterpillar at organised events across the US, Brazil, Trees campaign and develop our 96-acre Penguin and Europe, with Pearson donating over 275,000 Wood in the UK.
The FT launched its annual seasonal Penguin books to children in need, and raising more appeal to support Room to Read, which works with than $1.5m to support Jumpstarts work.
local communities in the developing world to provide schools, libraries and educational scholarships for girls.
By the end of 2010, it aims to provide over 11,000 communities access to their first library and has a long-term goal of reaching 10 million children in the 2 developing world by 2020.
Running from November Jumpstart for Young Children is a national non-profit based out of Boston, Massachusetts after being founded in Yale University to January each year, the FTs annual appeal includes in 1993 to help prepare pre-school children to succeed in their editorial reports about the charity, and print and online primary education.
marketing that encourages readers to donate.
In the 3 Booktime was launched by Pearson in association with independent previous three years, the seasonal appeal has raised charity Booktrust, to promote the pleasure of reading and encourage parents and carers to read aloud with their children.
nearly 2.4m for WaterAid and Camfed International.
