Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 15 Outlook: 2010 Pearson reported underlying growth We expect Penguin to post another good competitive performance in the context of a consumer books in sales and operating profit in 2009, market that we expect to remain broadly level in 2010. in spite of the exceptionally difficult Penguin will benefit from its leading position in the macroeconomic environment and against emerging market for eBooks and from the efficiency record 2008 results.
We achieved strong actions taken in 2009. growth in education, helping us to make Interest and tax.
In 2010, we expect our interest good financial progress even though our charge to adjusted earnings to be broadly level with markets in US school publishing, financial 2009.
We expect our P&L tax charge to be in the advertising and consumer books were 25% to 27% range.
We expect our cash tax rate to be around 15%.
Pearson generates approximately Trading conditions in those tough markets began 60% of its sales in the US.
In 2009, a 5 cent move in to ease towards the end of the year, but we are the average :$ exchange rate for the full year which planning on the basis that some of our markets in 2009 was 1:$1.57 had an impact of approximately remain subdued throughout 2010.
Even so, we 1.3p on adjusted earnings per share.
expect Pearson to produce another year of underlying profit growth, helped by the overall resilience of our company and good growth prospects for our businesses in digital, services and emerging markets.
In Education, we believe that our sustained investment in content and our leadership position in learning services and technologies will enable us to build on our strong market positions.
We expect to gain further share in the US School market which will benefit from a stronger adoption opportunity $850m $900m and new federal funds, broadly offset by continued pressure on education funding at the state level.
In Higher Education and International Education, we expect to produce further underlying growth and share gains.
At FT Publishing, we expect to sustain good renewal rates in our subscription businesses and healthy margins.
Advertising revenues which in 2009 accounted for less than 3% of total Pearson revenues remain highly unpredictable but we expect to see some stabilisation after the sharp declines across the industry in 2009.
Interactive Data Corporation expects 2010 revenues to range between $810m to $830m and healthy margins in the 25% to 26% range guidance under US GAAP.
As previously announced, the Board of Interactive Data Corporation is currently undertaking a preliminary review of strategic alternatives for the company.
