Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 33 Principal risks and uncertainties: Group We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk materialise and or adversely affect our business or factors which may affect our business and financial financial performance performance.
Our Group internal audit function As the current economic environment remains dynamic facilitates risk reviews with each business, shared and challenging, the risk of weak trading conditions service operations and corporate functions, identifying continues in 2010 which could adversely impact the measures and controls to mitigate these risks.
The outlook for the Management is responsible for considering and company for 2010 is set out on page 15.
The effect of a executing the appropriate action to mitigate these continued deterioration in the global economy will vary risks whenever possible.
It is not possible to identify across our businesses and will depend on the depth, every risk that could affect our businesses, and the length and severity of any economic downturn.
actions taken to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide absolute assurance that a risk will not Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined below.
Risk Mitigating factors Principal risks and uncertainties A significant deterioration in Group profitability The Groups approach to funding is described on and or cash flow caused by a severe economic page 30 and the Groups approach to the management depression could reduce our liquidity and or impair of financial risks is set out in note 19 to the financial our financial ratios, and trigger a need to raise statements.
additional funds from the capital markets and or renegotiate our banking covenants.
Our US educational solutions and assessment Our customer relationship teams have detailed businesses may be adversely affected by changes knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in in state and local educational funding resulting new and innovative ways to expand and combine our from either general economic conditions, changes product and services to provide a superior customer in government educational funding, programme and offering when compared to our competitors, thereby legislation both at the federal and state level, and reducing our reliance on any particular funding stream or changes in the state procurement process.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in The Groups policy on managing foreign currency risk foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign is described in note 19 to the financial statements.
exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general not be adequately protected under current laws in vigilance, co-operation with other publishers and some jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our trade associations, advances in technology, as well results and our ability to grow.
as recourse to law as necessary.
We take steps to challenge illegal distribution sources.
Our reported earnings and cash flows may be We review our funding arrangements every three years adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and will take steps to ensure pension funding plans and funding requirements.
are sufficient to meet future liabilities without unduly affecting the development of the company.
We operate in a highly competitive environment that To remain competitive we continue to invest in our is subject to rapid change and we must continue to authors, products, services, technology and people invest and adapt to remain competitive.
to take advantage of these opportunities.
There is no guarantee that these investments will generate the anticipated returns or protect us from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop and exploit opportunities.
34 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Principal risks and uncertainties: Group continued Risk Mitigating factors Principal risks and uncertainties continued A major data privacy breach may cause reputational Through our global security office under the direction of damage to our brands and financial loss.
our Chief Security Officer, we have established various data privacy and security programmes.
We constantly test and re-evaluate our data security procedures and controls across all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data is secured and we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
Other risks and uncertainties At Penguin, changes in product distribution channel We develop new distribution channels by adapting and or customer bankruptcy may restrict our ability our product offering and investing in new formats.
to grow and affect our profitability.
The application of strict credit control policies is used to monitor customer debt and we work with industry groups to minimise exposures e. g. through retention of title claims in the event of default.
Reductions in advertising revenues and or circulation The diversification of the FT Group into other business will adversely affect the profitability of our newspaper models and revenue streams, e. g. subscription based business.
businesses, digital revenues, business to business products, conferences, in addition to its global reach, offsets reliance on newspaper print advertising and circulation revenue streams.
Operational disruption to our business caused by a We have developed business continuity major disaster and or external threats could restrict arrangements, including IT disaster recovery plans our ability to supply products and services to our and back-up delivery systems, to minimise any customers.
business disruption in the event of a major disaster.
The governance structure, overseen by a global coordinator, provides the capability to centrally monitor all related activities.
A concerted effort was undertaken to facilitate creation of pandemic plans throughout Pearson.
Insurance coverage may minimise any losses in certain circumstances.
A control breakdown or service failure in our school We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in assessment businesses could result in financial loss our student marking with the use of robust testing and reputational damage.
procedures and controls, combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people.
Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, We perform pre-acquisition due diligence and synergies and or cost savings from acquisitions could closely monitor the post-integration performance lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
to ensure we are meeting operational and financial targets.
Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to improve performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management and the board receive regular reports on the status of acquisition performance.
Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 35 Risk Mitigating factors Other risks and uncertainties continued Changes in our tax position can significantly affect We employ internal tax professionals in the UK and our reported earnings and cash flows.
the US who review all significant arrangements around the world and respond to changes in tax legislation.
They work closely with local management and external tax advisors.
Our professional services and school assessment In addition to the internal business procedures and businesses involve complex contractual relationships controls implemented to ensure we successfully with both government agencies and commercial deliver on our contractual commitments, we also seek customers for the provision of various testing to develop and maintain good relationships with our services.
Our financial results, growth prospects customers to minimise associated risks.
We also look and or reputation may be adversely affected if these to diversify our portfolio to minimise reliance on any contracts and relationships are poorly managed.
We operate in markets which are dependent We mitigate these IT risks by establishing strong IT on Information Technology IT systems and policies and operational controls, employing project technological change.
management techniques to manage new software developments and or system implementations and have implemented an array of security measures to protect our IT assets from attacks or failures that could impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our systems.
Investment returns outside our traditional core US We draw on our experience of developing businesses and UK markets may be lower than anticipated.
outside our core markets and our existing international infrastructure to manage specific country risks.
We have strengthened our financial control and managerial resources in these markets to mange expansion.
The diversification of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the Group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall Group results.
Social, environmental and ethical risk We consider social, environmental and ethical SEE risks no differently to the way we manage any other business risk.
Our 2009 risk assessment did not identify any significant under-managed SEE risks, nor have any of our most important SEE risks, many concerned with reputational risks, changed year-onyear.
These are: journalistic author integrity, ethical business behaviour, intellectual copyright protection, compliance with UN Global Compact standards, environmental impact, people and data privacy.
For more information, see the Pearson corporate responsibility report Always learning: Our impact on society.
The web link is available at www.
