Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 2 Our strategy 13 Were certainly proud of 2009, but were much more The road ahead pleased about the foundations weve laid out for our As we plunge out into 2010, were clear that in next chapter.
Our approach to that next chapter is macroeconomic terms the world is by no means a based on a fundamental truth: Were always learning.
Were expecting many of our But the experience of learning is different for every markets to remain slow and subdued this year, and person.
Thats why weve been talking about and perhaps into the next one as well.
working on personalizing learning long enough for it to become a buzz word.
But were anything but subdued.
We have a successful strategy, one thats been producing So now were trying to take it to a new level that consistent growth and high performance for some still uses our strategy of content services years now.
We believe in it, and were pushing ahead internationalism efficiency but is: with it with some bold changes.
more thoroughly involved in the whole process Our strong performance both financial and of education: competitive is largely the result of our having had more service-oriented than ever: the strategy and made the investment over the last decade to make Pearson a unified, digital, servicesmore indifferent to medium: based, global education company.
That strategy and as interested in informal, consumer learning as investment will help us remain the innovator and in institutional learning and the scale player in our industries, and remain both a durable company, and a long-term growth company, moving more deeply into the developing world.
but not if we dont keep changing, keep learning.
Weve made a good start on building the worlds Thats why this 160-year-old company tries to be leading learning company.
Our financial results say always learning.
Like many students, were finding were making progress.
But we know that, to make that the learning itself can be as stimulating as the more and faster progress, more and more of our results.
And all the time, thats making this company customers have to see that we are also helping them one I hope youd like to continue to call your make progress in their lives.
