46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Board governance Directors to appraise the performance of the chairman, and would be expected to chair the nomination committee The present members of the board, together with their in the event that it was considering succession to the biographical details, are shown on pages 44 and 45. role of chairman of the board.
Following Terrys The chairman was appointed to the board of Lloyds retirement, Patrick Cescau will be appointed senior Banking Group plc, effective 1 March 2010.
retirement from two major boards in 2009, both the chairman and the Pearson board are confident that he Independence of directors can carry out his new role without diluting his time The board reviews the independence of each of the commitment to Pearson.
This includes reviewing their external appointments and any Details of directors remuneration, interests and dealings potential conflicts of interest as well as assessing in ordinary shares and options of the company are their individual circumstances.
contained in the report on directors remuneration on pages 56 to 78.
Although Terry Burns has served on the board for more than nine years, the board believes that due to his In accordance with good corporate governance, the experience, knowledge and objectivity, he continued to board has resolved that all directors should offer be a highly effective non-executive director throughout themselves for re-election on an annual basis at the the year.
companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly, all eligible directors will offer themselves for re-election All of the other non-executive directors, including at the forthcoming AGM on 30 April 2010. the chairman, were considered by the board to be independent for the purposes of the Code during the Details of directors service agreements can be found on year ended 31 December 2009. pages 66 and 67.
Conflicts of interest Corporate governance From October 2008, directors have had a statutory duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid Introduction conflicts of interest with the company.
As permitted The board believes that the company is in full by the Act, the company adopted new Articles of compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code 2008 Association at its AGM in 2008 to allow the directors The Code.
A detailed account of the provisions of the to authorise conflicts of interest.
The company has Code can be found on the company website at established a procedure to identify actual and potential i www.
com investors shareholderconflicts of interest, including all directorships or other information governance appointments to companies which are not part of the Composition of the board Pearson Group and which could give rise to actual or The board consists of the chairman, Glen Moreno, potential conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then five executive directors including the chief executive, considered for approval by the board.
The potential Marjorie Scardino, and six independent non-executive conflicted director cannot vote on an authorisation directors.
Terry Burns, Pearsons senior independent resolution or be counted in the quorum.
The board director, will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM and reviews on an annual basis any authorisations granted.
will not offer himself for re-election.
The nomination committee is currently recruiting an independent non-executive director to replace Terry.
Senior independent director Terry Burns was appointed senior independent director in 2004.
His role includes being available to shareholders if they should have concerns that have not been addressed through the normal channels, and attending meetings with shareholders in order to gain a balanced understanding of any concerns that they might have.
The senior independent director also meets with the non-executive directors at least once a year in order
