44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Glen Moreno, chairman, Marjorie Scardino, chief Will Ethridge, chief executive, aged 66, was appointed executive, aged 63, joined Pearson North American chairman of Pearson on the Pearson board in January Education, aged 58, joined 1 October 2005 and is 1997.
She trained and the Pearson board in May chairman of the nomination practised as a lawyer, and 2008, having held a number committee.
He is a director of was chief executive of of senior positions within Fidelity International Limited The Economist Group from Pearson Education, including and effective 1 March 2010, 1993 until joining Pearson.
CEO of the International and was appointed a non-executive She is also vice chairman of Higher Education divisions.
director of Lloyds Banking Nokia Corporation and on the He is chairman of Group plc and became their boards of several charitable CourseSmart, a publishers senior independent director.
digital retail consortium and He was previously senior chairman of the Association independent director of Man of American Publishers.
Group plc and acting chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, the company set up by HM Treasury to manage the governments shareholdings in UK banks.
Non-executive directors David Arculus, aged 63, Terry Burns, aged 65, Patrick Cescau, aged 61, is a non-executive director is chairman of Santander UK is a non-executive director of Telefnica SA and was and Glas Cymru Limited and of Tesco plc and joined the appointed chairman of is a non-executive director of board of directors of INSEAD, Numis Corporation plc in Banco Santander SA.
He was the Business School for the May 2009.
His previous roles recently appointed chairman World, in June 2009.
He was include chairman of O2 plc, of the Channel 4 Television previously group chief Severn Trent plc and IPC Corporation.
He was previously executive of Unilever.
Group, chief operating officer chairman of Marks and He became a non-executive of United Business Media plc Spencer Group plc.
He was director of Pearson in and group managing director the UK governments chief April 2002. of EMAP plc.
He became a economic adviser from 1980 non-executive director of until 1991 and Permanent Pearson in February 2006 Secretary of HM Treasury from and is chairman of the 1991 until 1998.
appointed a non-executive director of Pearson in May 1999 and senior independent director in February 2004.
