30 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Corporate & Social Responsibility Community Princes Trust Employee Involvement Charities and Good Causes As part of our new partnership with the Princes Trust a number of A. G. BARR employees based The Princes Trust at our Cumbernauld site worked alongside In 2008 we started a new partnership with The Trusts own staff to help deliver the charitys The Princes Trust.
The Trust helps 14 to 30 Team Project in Glasgow.
The Team Project year olds get a job who are in or leaving care, involved 12 young people aged between struggling at school, are unemployed or have 16-25 who needed help to move on in their been in trouble with the law.
The project lasted for 12 weeks and U. K. s leading youth charity, offering a range focused on helping the group to develop life of opportunities including training, personal skills in order for the team members to go development, business start-up support, on to find employment or further education.
The Barr staff involved in the project helped We supported the work of The Trust by Throughout our in the following ways: investing in a number of their community programmes across the U. K. with a particular 133 year history They visited the team on their course to focus on Scotland.
The Strathmore Spring introduce themselves and run an interactive water brand provided The Trusts water we have always learning experience.
requirements for their various fundraising They hosted the team on a visit to our tried to play an and recognition activities throughout the year.
Cumbernauld site to help them gain Our staff were also engaged with the work an understanding of our business and active, supportive of The Trust through organising fundraising the world of work including a tour of activities and working directly in the projects and positive role our production facilities.
On further visits to our Cumber nauld site in community life our staff delivered a teaching session on selling techniques and marketing skills with especially where an interactive session on how we produce our adverts.
Our personnel department our manufacturing also delivered an interview and job seeking skills course.
and distribution operations are based.
Robin Barr Chairman Barr Soft Drinks November 2008 31 The project team also joined Barr staff Community Support in running our first Christmas Fayre at our Westfield Primary School, Cumbernauld Cumbernauld site.
The Fayre was created In 2007 we entered into a unique partnership to raise funds for The Princes Trust and with Westfield Primary School the local helped to raise over 10,000 for our staff primary school to our Cumbernauld site.
contribution to the charity in 2008.
We were invited by North Lanarkshire Council At the end of The Project the Team made a to enter into a local partnership agreement with short presentation at our Cumbernauld site the school which involves our staff working on their experiences over the 12 weeks and with the pupils to support enterprise projects what they had gained from their time on the taking place within the school.
We are delighted to report that each one of the team members had either a job We also support a number of other local opportunity or a further education place community organisations in Cumbernauld, to pursue at the end of the Team Project.
where our Scottish head office, distribution, logistics and warehousing operations are The Princes Trust helping to change now based.
These include the Cumbernauld young lives.
For more information go to Theatre, Cumbernauld Community Park www.
uk and the annual Cumbernauld 10k run.
Other Charitable Organisations Angus Council We also support a number of other charitable Our Strathmore Spring water brand worked organisations with cash support.
These include with Angus Council on a new schools and The Big Issue Scotland which we have business recycling scheme by donating supported for many years and the Glasgow- 100 recycling bins to primary and secondary based Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice.
The scheme aims to increase the amount of recycling and cut Over the years we have assisted many the cost of waste disposal in the county.
thousands of community groups, charities and good causes with donations of Barr Soft drinks products and merchandise in order to help them raise much needed funds.
We also know that the 30p bottle deposit on our BARR 750ml returnable glass bottles plays an important role in helping many charities to raise funds.
205k Contributed in 2008 09 How we contribute: Cash 55% In Kind 32% Employee Time 13% 32 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Corporate & Social Responsibility Marketplace Quality The commonality of the international standards Health and Wellbeing enables the procedures for our Environmental All our soft drinks can be enjoyed as part of a Management System BS EN ISO 14001 balanced diet and a healthy lifestyle.
At Barr we to be integrated in the same documents.
offer a full portfolio of soft drinks to enable our consumers to make a choice in the soft drinks Both of these standards are important to sound that they buy to suit their individual needs and management practice and are independently tastes.
Consumers can also buy our soft drinks audited by our assessment auditors, Lloyds in a wide range of pack sizes both for their Register QA.
convenience and to help them exercise portion control.
Food Safety & Product Quality The principles of HACCP Hazard Analysis and The sponsorship and marketing of our brands Critical Control Point are applied to all of our also reflects our desire to make our contribution production activities.
This food safety technique in the promotion of a healthy and active lifestyle requires potential hazards to be identified, to our consumers.
In 2008 we distributed over and then to implement specific monitoring and 300,000 bottles of Strathmore Spring water controls.
The objective is, wherever possible, to participants at various road races that the to eliminate the risk, and where this is not brand supports, many of which we have possible, to manage it.
One of the foundation supported for over 12 years.
stones of our quality system is continuous improvement, and this prompted us this year to revisit our HACCP system.
This led us to train many more of our staff to provide a wider understanding of the importance of the control mechanisms in place.
The monitoring requirements and controls are all integrated Barr Soft Drinks within our ISO 9001 system, ensuring that they was established in are comprehensively audited, both internally and externally.
1875 and throughout our 133 year history we have always recognised that responsible marketing helps consumers to make informed choices.
300,000 bottles of Strathmore Spring water to participants at various road races
