19 In difficult times it is even more important to be building from a strong base it is from a strong base that A. G. BARR is stepping up.
We have announced that after 31 years as Summary chairman, Robin Barr will step down to a Over the course of the last 12 months non-executive role and Ronnie Hanna will step the resilience of the business has been up to the role of non-executive chairman.
It is demonstrated by the growth of both sales expected to be a smooth transition as Ronnie revenue and profit in what has been a tough brings both experience and capability as well year.
Poor summer weather, volatility in costs as a strong knowledge of our business from and an increasingly difficult economic climate the five years he has spent as a non-executive have all challenged our market and our director.
We would also like to welcome to business.
The soft drinks market has held up our board Jonathan Warburton who brings well and we have out performed in that market.
an exceptional track record of brand building, asset development and FMCG experience.
In difficult times it is even more important to be building from a strong base it is from Throughout the business we have further a strong base that A. G. BARR is stepping up.
improved our Health & Safety performance We remain focused on managing our cost across the past year with fewer reportable base and understand the need to adapt quickly accidents and improved scores in our internal to any changes in the external environment.
Despite the progress The early integration of the Rubicon business we have made we cannot afford to be is a necessary challenge that will allow us to off complacent and Health & Safety remains set much of the impact of a weakened Sterling at the top of everybodys agenda.
and our further investments in sales execution and the development of our core brands provide Last year we entered our first year of working us with good growth opportunities across the with the Princes Trust supporting young market place.
people across the U. K. We have completed our first programme with the Princes Trust We look forward into uncertain times with 17.1m team and a group of young people and at the confidence that our business is financially same time we have raised a significant amount Profit attributable to shareholders strong and in the knowledge that we have of money to further support the Princes Trust the people and plans in place for 2009 10.
Thanks should be given to all of those people in the company who have given up considerable time to help support the Roger White Princes Trust.
Chief Executive We will continue to face communication challenges as our business grows in size and complexity.
Over the last year we have further developed our communication and consultation frameworks allowing us to better communicate with everyone across the business and importantly giving us increased understanding of how we can improve the business for the future.
20 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Financial Review Margins A. G. BARRs profit before tax for the year In spite of an increase in raw material and utility ended 31st January, 2009 rose to 23.2m, costs, a successful delivery of price increases an increase on the prior year of 11.4%.
This together with a favourable mix delivered an included release of a restructuring provision improvement in our gross margin from 48.7% no longer required of 0.1m.
Normalised profit before tax, i. e. eliminating Operating profit margins remained flat the impact of exceptional items and impairment despite an increased level of marketing charges, increased to 23.4m, an increase and promotional investment and also further of 9.7% on the prior year.
investment in our sales execution infrastructure.
EBITDA before exceptional items increased During the year we continued to see the by 12.5% to 30.7m, representing an EBITDA benefits of the previous operational restructuring margin of 18.1%.
programme and improvements within our manufacturing and distribution activities.
Turnover ended the year ahead of expectations The company announced a limited number of at 169.7m, an increase of 14.4% on the voluntary redundancies within the Strathmore previous financial period.
manufacturing operation during the period.
In addition the purchase of a distribution facility, Together with a strong performance of the adjacent to our Cumbernauld site, reduced core brands within the portfolio, the results costs and improved efficiencies.
These activities were enhanced by the acquisition of Groupe together with general team based continuous Rubicon Limited Rubicon.
The inclusion of 22 improvements helped offset some inflationary weeks turnover, relating to Rubicon, delivered cost pressures.
an increase in turnover of 8.8m in the financial period.
In addition the timing of the year end The operating profit margin before exceptional resulted in the inclusion of an additional 53rd items achieved in the period was 13.7%.
week of trading in the period: this equated to an additional 2.7m of turnover.
On a like-forInterest like basis the core business achieved turnover Interest income of 25k was reported in the growth of 6.6%.
period, being in the main 1.1m of interest earned on cash balances up to the end of As expected the acquisition of Rubicon was August, offset by interest charges following earnings enhancing in the financial period Alex Short our move to an indebted position, after the ending 31st January, 2009, delivering 1.4m Finance Director acquisition of Rubicon.
of incremental profit before interest costs.
We continue to expect the acquisition Moving into an indebted position and in line to deliver further earnings enhancement with our internal policies, the company entered in its second year.
into a three year interest rate swap with the Royal Bank of Scotland to hedge a significant All sub categories within the product portfolio portion of the risk associated with fluctuations delivered year-on-year growth in sales revenue in interest rate movements, securing a rate with the exception of water.
Taxation The tax charge of 6.1m represents an effective tax charge of 26.4%.
The effective tax rate reported in the accounts for the previous year was 19% which reflected the disposal of properties following the restructuring process completed last year.
T urnover ended the year ahead of expectations at 169.7m, an increase of 14.4% on the previous financial year.
21 Earnings per Share EPS Capital expenditure in the period was 10.6m.
Significant expenditure included the purchase Basic EPS for the period was 89.12p, up 2.7% of a 20 acre warehousing site for 2.85m.
on the same period last year.
The site, which is adjacent to our Cumbernauld facility, became operational in October 2008 Dividends providing the benefits of reduced external The board is recommending a final dividend storage costs as well as reducing transportation of 30.4p per share to give a total dividend for of raw materials and finished goods.
The other the year ending 31st January, 2009 of 42.0p.
item of significant expenditure during the period This represents an increase of 7.7% compared was the purchase of the Rubicon manufacturing to the prior year.
facility at Tredegar in August for 1.3m: this was followed by the purchase of the neighbouring Balance Sheet Review property in January for 0.7m, again in order to The groups Balance Sheet remains strong with reduce our dependence on external distribution net assets increasing from 84.8m to 92.7m and storage.
mostly driven by an increase in intangible assets and strong operational cash flow.
Current Assets and Liabilities Current assets reduced in the period from On 29th August, 2008, the company 59.7m to 51.2m with the most significant completed the acquisition of Groupe Rubicon aspect being the reduction in cash and cash Limited for a consideration of 59.8m.
This was equivalents following the Rubicon acquisition funded from existing cash resources and a new in the year.
debt facility that was negotiated with the Royal Bank of Scotland.
The facility totals 70m of The movement to a net debt position together which 40m is a five year term loan maturing with the current economic conditions means July 2013 with the balance funded by a three that careful management of our working year revolving credit facility of 30m, expiring capital position is more important than ever.
Inventories in the period increased by 2.2m again being the effect of Rubicon which offset a An initial repayment of 2.0m was made reduction in inventories from the core business: towards the five year facility on 29th January, inventory days increased marginally following a 2009, in line with the facility agreement.
decision to forward purchase some packaging material to take advantage of favourable pricing Leverage and interest cover are significantly being offered.
within the required covenant levels.
At 31st January, 2009 the groups net debt position was Trade and other receivables increased by 31.3m representing just over 1 times EBITDA 1.2m again due to the inclusion of Rubicon, with interest cover in excess of 22 times.
but also as a result of higher levels of trading and the timing of the year end falling five days In line with both the requirements of IAS36 later.
Trade and other payables rose by 2.8m and our accounting policies, the group again reflecting the timing of the year end.
undertook an impairment review of all Debtor days have reduced from 57 days to 52, intangible assets during the year.
This review whilst trade payable days have remained flat.
identified a potential impairment relating to the value of intangible assets for the Findlays We are continuing to market the Atherton site water rights: consequently an impairment which is surplus to our operating requirements charge of 0.3m has been recognised.
and remain confident that the proceeds of the disposal will exceed the net carrying value of Capital Expenditure 2.9m and are therefore continuing to classify Following a period of significant capital the asset as held for sale.
investment in the business as part of the restructuring programme, capital investment Return on capital employed for the period was at more normal levels with focus turning reduced to 17.3% previously 26.3% reflecting to delivering operational efficiencies.
the increase in intangible assets relating to the Rubicon acquisition.
Vitsmart A new Vitsmart range of functional waters was launched into the market in October 2008.
Each drink contains 50% of your recommended daily allowance of vitamins and is available in five, exciting, great tasting flavours.
22 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Cash Flow and Net Debt The latest formal actuarial valuation was carried out as at April 2008 and is in the The most significant single item on the cash process of completion.
The results of this flow statement is of course the acquisition valuation indicate that the recovery plan is of Rubicon which was funded in part by historic progressing as expected.
The pension trustees cash balances and the new debt facility.
and the company have therefore agreed to maintain the deficit contributions at the current Free cash flow generated in the period was level of 2.7m per annum.
18.0m, significantly ahead of the prior year driven by improved trading performance, a In addition to the main A. G. BARR schemes, strong focus on working capital management, the company also operated two defined reduced tax payable due to a previous contribution Group Personal Pension Schemes overpayment and a reduced level of capital for a limited number of employees.
Additional contributions were made to the defined benefit pension scheme Share Price and Market Capitalisation as part of the deficit recovery plan.
These totalled 2.7m and were in line with the At 31st January, 2009 the closing share price prior year.
The group became a member of the FTSE250 during the As at the 31st January the groups net debt year and had a market capitalisation of 222m position was 31.3m being the closing cash at the period end.
position of 6.7m net of the borrowings of 38m.
During the year, the trustees of the companys various employee benefit trusts continued to Pensions purchase a modest amount of shares to satisfy the ongoing requirements of the companys During the year the company operated two Fr ee cash flow share schemes.
main pension plans being the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2005 Defined Contribution Pension Scheme, generated in the and the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and period was 18.0m, Life Assurance Scheme.
The latter is a defined Alex Short benefit scheme based on final salary which Finance Director significantly ahead also includes a defined contribution section for the pension provision of new executive of the prior year.
The assets of both schemes are held separately from those of the company and are invested in managed funds.
Under IAS 19 the net pension deficit at the year end stood at just under 5m representing an improvement of 3m on the deficit of 8m that was reported last year.
The majority of the improvement has resulted from the additional contributions paid by the company during the year, the increase in bond yields over the last year and a change in assumption regarding the amount of tax-free cash that members will elect to take on retirement.
These factors have been offset by a slight increase in future price inflation expectations and a lower than expected return on assets during the year.
Reportable accidents 2009 15 2008 19 23 Key Performance Indicators Free cash flow Net cash flow excluding the movements The principle key performance indicators used in borrowings, dividend payments and by management in assessing the performance non cash exceptional items.
of the group, in addition to the income statement, are as follows: Return on capital employed Operating profit before exceptional items as a Turnover growth percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital The increase in value of revenue recorded is defined as non-current plus current assets in the period relative to the prior period.
less current liabilities excluding all balances relating to any financial instruments, interest Average realised price bearing liabilities and cash or cash equivalents.
The average revenue per case sold.
Interest cover Gross margin The ratio of EBITA EBITDA less depreciation Revenue less material costs and production relative to finance charges in respect of the related costs, divided by revenue.
Contribution margin Net debt EBITDA Revenue less material costs and all other The ratio of aggregate amount of all obligations operating costs that management considers in respect of consolidated gross borrowings to be attributable to specific business areas, to reported EBITDA.
Market growth Operating profit margin A C Nielsen market growth summaries reported Operating profit before exceptional items and in terms of volume and value by major product before the deduction of interest and taxation, category and geography.
Market share EBITDA margin A C Nielsen market share summaries reported EBITDA as defined as: profit on ordinary in terms of volume and value by major product activities before tax less exceptional income, category and geography.
adding back interest, depreciation, amortisation and impairment divided Market price per litre by revenue.
A C Nielsen market scantrack data of retail price per litre reported by major product category, brand and geography.
Reportable accidents The moving average total of reportable accidents in a period together with the number of lost time accidents and near misses.
24 Annual Report and Accounts January 2009 Business & Financial Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties In addition to financial risks the groups results could be materially affected by: Financial Risks The groups activities expose it to a variety Risks Relating to the Group of financial risks: market risk including foreign A decline in the sales of certain key brands.
exchange, interest rate and commodity price Adverse publicity in relation to the group risks, credit risk and liquidity risk.
overall risk management programme focuses Consolidation or reduction of the on the unpredictability of financial markets and customer base.
seeks to minimise potential adverse effects Failure or unavailability of the groups on the groups financial performance.
Interruption to the groups supply Risk management is carried out by the Finance of packaging and raw materials.
department under policies approved by the Failure to maintain appropriate incident board of directors.
The Finance department management readiness.
identifies, evaluates and manages financial Deterioration of internal financial controls.
risks in close co-operation with the groups Failure of critical IT systems.
The board provides guidance Inability to protect the intellectual on overall risk management.
More details can property rights associated with current be found within the Accounting Policies section and future brands.
Litigation or changes in legislation including changes in accounting principles and standards.
Failure to recruit retain key employees.
Significant increase in the groups funding requirement in respect of its pension schemes.
Risks Relating to the Market Changes in consumer preferences, perception or purchasing behaviour.
Poor economic conditions and weather.
Failure to maintain appropriate relationships with major customers.
A step in the right direction with our recycling policy in 2009 What are we doing?
Over recent years the percentage of our 750ml Working with suppliers to glass bottles returned to us has been reducing.
reduce waste and packaging In May 2008 we increased the deposit on our 200,000 In the coming year, as a condition of our 2009 returnable 750ml glass bottle to 30p and we preform contract, our suppliers will be working new 750ml glass bottles saved have seen a consequent improvement in their to reduce the weight of our 2 litre bottle by return rate.
In the 6 months to January 2009 nearly 5% and our 330ml Simply PET bottles this has meant that we have reduced the by 6%.
This is expected to remove 139 tonnes amount of new glass bottles being placed on of plastic packaging which is equivalent the market by 130 tonnes this is equivalent 4.0m to another 7.5 million 500ml bottles.
500ml plastic bottle equivalents We will also be trialing the introduction of saved through lightweighting During 2008 we lightweighted our Strathmore recyled PET rPET to our Simply Fruity range: 250ml and 750ml bottles and down-gauged this will reduce the amount of virgin PET used their plastic packaging.
This, along with other to manufacture this pack by 25%.
lightweighting initiatives across our packaging range, contributed to the removal of 74.1 25% tonnes of plastic: which is equivalent to reduction of virgin PET in 4 million 500ml bottles.
the Simply Fruity PET range 25 We take our Corporate Social Corporate Responsibility very seriously and see & Social it as a key part of the future success Responsibility and sustainability of our business.
Corporate Responsibility Our Environment Strategy Corporate responsibility at Barr is neither Our approach is to: a new thing nor a separate programme Manage, monitor and evaluate the key of activity it is part of what we believe environmental impacts of our business makes good business sense.
in the areas of climate change, waste and packaging design, water usage and transport.
Our corporate responsibility activity Set and review environmental targets both brings together the different strands locally and centrally.
of our actions across: Communicate all our targets and plans throughout the company.
Environment Workplace Agree plans to achieve targets.
Community Consider environmental impacts when Quality making investment decisions.
Maintain British Standard, BS EN ISO We have appointed Andrew Memmott, 14001 accreditation.
our Operations Director, as board sponsor for sustainability and to co-ordinate our Environmental Organisation corporate responsibility activities.
Our Environment Committee In order to maintain business focus on, and We have made good progress across contribute to, the continued conservation of all fronts over the last 12 months and natural resources and minimisation of waste have also improved communication at A. G. BARR, we have formally established and co-ordination of all our activities.
This committee monitors performance against our environmental We now have plans in place with targets targets and reviews our objectives.
and controls across each key area of the business.
Quarterly updates on the progress of this committee are reported to the board of directors.
During the integration of the Rubicon business in 2009 the Environment Committee remit will be extended to include Rubicons Roger White Tredegar site.
Chief Executive Operations Director Environment Committee Cumbernauld Site Mansfield Site Strathmore Site 1 7% Reduction in manufacturing energy usage across all sites since 2004
