DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW About our businesses south West Water In the current regulatory period Ofwat assumed The review into fairer water charges REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT that the equity cost of capital for all companies commissioned by Defra, known as the Walker would be 7.7% real after tax with an overall Review, is expected to be concluded later in weighted average cost of capital of 5.1% real the year.
The company hosted a consultation South West Water is the licensed water and after tax.
event in Plymouth in December 2008 for the sewerage service provider for Devon, Cornwall and review team attended by stakeholders including parts of Dorset and Somerset.
The company serves Customers using more than 50Ml of water per MPs, business and domestic customers and a region of nearly 10,300 square kilometres with year can contract with alternative suppliers for representatives from Ofwat and the Consumer 1.65 million residents and in excess of 10 million water supply.
South West Water has 45 customers Council for Water.
The chairman of the Walker annual visitors.
On average each day it distributes in this category, whose aggregate water charges Review took the opportunity to meet a customer over 440 Megalitres Ml of treated water and account for approximately 2.5% of its total who has benefited from the WaterCare scheme disposes of around 250Ml of waste water through revenue.
No single customer accounts for more and to see how it operates.
an asset base comprising: than 1% of revenue.
PRICE CAP REGULATION Legislation will be required for any further Water distribution mains 15,041km Ofwat regulates water and waste water charges extension of competition in the water and Sewers 9,221km by determining the maximum increase in charges sewerage markets.
The the second part of its review of competition Water treatment works 40 water regulator conducts a Periodic Review and which sets out its recommendations for reform Waste water treatment works, sets price limits every five years.
Prices are set by of the competition framework, looking beyond including 54 works with reference to inflation as measured by the Retail the assumptions of the existing Water Supply ultra-violet treatment and three Prices Index RPI plus an adjustment factor Licensing regime.
Those recommendations with membrane filtration 633 known as K which is specific for each company.
included the establishment of water companies Intermittent discharges, including retail service businesses as separate legal 1,041 combined sewer overflows.............. 1,686 The K factors for the period 2005 to 2010 for entities and the extension of competition to South West Water were determined by Ofwat in its household customers.
Final Determination in December 2004 and are: Since privatisation in 1989 the company has During the year Ofwat also published two successfully delivered the largest capital consultation documents on accounting programme per capita of any of the water and K FACToRs FoR THE PERIoD 2005-2010 separation, a project designed to lead to a sewerage companies with an initial focus on better understanding of costs in the water sector improving coastal waste water treatment and 14 with the aim of developing future competitive disposal.
The region currently has 144 EU frameworks.
Ofwat states that it would like to 12 designated bathing waters, almost one third be able to introduce vertically separated price of the total in England and Wales, and 132 of 10 controls by the time it begins to set price limits these have benefited over the last 18 years from for the period after 2015.
The company has 8 the companys marine investment programme.
worked with Ofwat as part of a pilot group of The emphasis has now moved to completing a 6 water and sewerage companies to explore the 15-year programme of improving the quality development of these ideas.
of drinking water and providing better 4 customer service.
The Governments independent review of 2 competition and innovation in the water industry South West Water expects to create value led by Professor Martin Cave published its final 0 through delivering the regulatory contract recommendations in April 2009.
The Government agreed with Ofwat.
The contract scope is welcomed the reviews findings on competition reviewed every five years.
As well as determining and innovation.
South West Water is assessing outputs, Ofwat sets prices to enable efficient Financial year the reviews recommendations and proposed companies to earn a reasonable rate of return legislation to implement the recommendations on their assets.
supported by Government is awaited.
14 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts ofwat determination K factor % 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 010 Average
