DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW The Group has substantial cash resources and About our businesses Pennon Group committed funding OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION OPERATING COSTS Group operating costs for the year totalled 694 million and included the following major categories of expenditure: m Landfill tax 143 Depreciation 132 Manpower 109 Transport 46 Property 26 Power 19 Raw materials and consumables 14 Abstraction and discharge consents 9 Lease rentals plant and machinery 7 Statutory operating licences and royalties 7 GROUP INVESTMENT Capital expenditure by the Group on property, plant and equipment was 239.8 million 2007 08 228.8 million.
The major categories of expenditure were: soUTH WEsT WATER VIRIDoR Information technology: 6m other: 9m Contracts: 14m other: 21m Waste water treatment works and sludge: Recycling and 19m Collection: 5m transfer: 11m sewerage: 21m Water mains: 43m Power metering: 8m generation: 14m Water distribution: 14m Landfill: 39m Water treatment works: 16m ASSET VALUE OPINION In the opinion of the Directors, the current market value of land and buildings is not significantly different from the holding cost shown in the financial statements.
28 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Finance leasing provides long maturity and secured credit margins CASH FLOW In 2008 09 the Group once again had a strong operating cash flow, but net borrowing increased primarily due to capital expenditure payments.
Summarised cash flow 2008 09 2007 08 m m Cash inflow from operations 347 356 Pension contribution 39 19 Net cash inflow from operations 308 337 Net interest paid 80 80 Dividends and tax paid 100 86 Capital expenditure payments 243 218 Acquisitions disposals 3 89 Net cash outflow 118 136 Shares issued 2 2 Own shares acquired 50 Debt acquired with acquisitions 16 Debt indexation interest accruals 13 6 Increase in net borrowings 129 206 DEBT PROFILE Despite the general shortage of funds in Over 50% of gross debt relates to finance the debt markets which has made both leasing which provides a long maturity During the year new borrowings and financial refinancing and the availability of new profile and secured credit margins.
lease drawdowns, less debt repayments, facilities more challenging, the following amounted to 118 million.
At 31 March 2009 financing initiatives were implemented The fair value of borrowings, based on the loans and finance lease obligations were 2,245 during the financial year 2008 09: market value of equivalent instruments at million and the Group held cash and deposits of the balance sheet date, is detailed in note 353 million, giving net debt of 1,892 million.
100 million 15-year EIB funding for 26 to the financial statements and amounted In addition the Group also had committed South West Water to a 221 million benefit compared with undrawn facilities of 204 million.
successful renewal of 55 million book value as at 31 March 2009 2008 170 committed revolving credit million.
The major components of debt finance as at facilities for both Pennon Group Plc and 31 March 2009 were: South West Water The interest payable on the Groups finance 25 million finance lease facility for South leases benefits from the fixed credit margins Private West Water secured at the inception of the lease.
European Investment placements: Bank loans: 302m 199m 25 million 5 -10 year finance lease facility for Viridor.
The above measures and financing structure have ensured that the Group has the Index-linked Pennon Group debt has a maturity of 0-48 appropriate financing in place to: bond 2057: 218m years with an average maturity of 23 years.
meet its current requirements from Bank bilateral existing borrowing facilities without South West Water has approximately 25% of debt: 295m breaching covenants or other borrowing its debt index-linked to 2041-2057.
Finance restrictions leasing: South West Water held cash and deposits of 1,217m give sufficient flexibility to implement the 252 million at 31 March 2009 as a result Groups strategic objectives and thereby of the prudent pre-funding of the capital maximise shareholder value.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 29 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW 221 million future benefit from fair value of debt CAPITAL STRUCTURE OVERALL POSITION TREASURY POLICIES KEY RELATIONSHIPS With year-end net debt of 1,892 million, The Groups treasury function seeks to ensure The key relationships and contractual the Group year-end ratio of net debt to that sufficient funding is available to meet arrangements for the Group are with its debt equity plus net debt was 76.0% 31 March foreseeable needs, maintain reasonable providers which include a number of financial 2008 73.4%.
headroom for contingencies and manage institutions.
It operates within policies South West Waters debt to Regulatory Capital approved by the Board and does not undertake The majority of the Groups debt is raised by: Value RCV was 63.8% at 31 March 2009 any speculative trading activity.
finance leasing 2007 08 60.4%, within Ofwats optimum European Investment Bank loans range of 55% - 65%.
The Board regularly monitors the Groups bank bilateral facilities expected financing requirements for the next private placements Viridor is funded by a combination of Pennon 12 months.
These are expected to be met from index-linked bonds.
Group equity and debt raised by Pennon existing cash balances, loan facilities and Group and direct borrowing by Viridor.
operating cash flows for the coming year.
Contract terms include financial and legal At the year-end, Viridors net debt stood at covenants as outlined in the covenant 443 million 2008 383 million, equivalent The Group has considerable financial resources compliance risk section on page 33. to 4.1 times EBITDA 2007 08 3.8 times.
together with a broad spread of business activities.
Consequently the Directors believe GOING CONCERN The borrowing limit on net debt for the that the Group is well positioned to manage its Having considered the Groups funding Directors is limited to two-and-a-half times business risks successfully despite the current position and financial projections as outlined adjusted capital and reserves, as defined uncertain economic outlook.
above, the Directors have a reasonable in the Companys Articles of Association.
expectation that the Group has adequate At 31 March 2009 the limit was 2,233 million.
INTERNAL BORROWING resources to continue in operational existence For regulatory purposes, South West Water for the foreseeable future.
For this reason funding is treated as effectively ring-fenced.
they continue to adopt the going concern Funds raised by, or for, South West Water are basis in preparing the financial statements.
used in the appointed business provision of water and sewerage services and are not available as long-term funding for the rest of the Group.
30 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts C i t y o f L o n d o n TAXATION OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES ToTAL TAx CoNTRIBUTIoN 2008 09 Pennon Groups tax strategy is to enhance shareholder value by legally minimising taxes whilst having regard to the longer-term Landfill tax: 134m Employment taxes: 34m relationships with the taxing authorities.
The Group will consider bona fide business Business rates: 20m arrangements which qualify for tax exemption or tax relief.
Corporation tax: 31m The Group has a taxation policy which has been reviewed and approved by the Board with VAT: 13m the guidance of the Group Director of Finance.
Fuel Excise Duty: 9m A material tax risk for the Group is the other: 2m possibility that the capital expenditure qualifying for capital allowances is misallocated or categorised incorrectly, resulting Total taxes amounted to 243 million, business rates of 20 million were paid in under-claims or over-claims of tax reliefs.
of which 38 million was collected on behalf during the year to local authorities.
This risk is managed by employing professional These are a direct cost to the Group and of the authorities for net VAT and employee tax consultants with experience of analysing reduce profit before tax payroll taxes.
the types of specialist assets involved.
employment taxes of 34 million The most significant taxes involved and their contained employees Pay As You Earn The UK corporation tax charge of 31 million profit impact were: PAYE and total National Insurance was less than the charge which would have Contributions NICs.
Employer NICs of arisen from the accounting profit of 159 Landfill tax of 134 million was accounted 9 million were expensed around 93% million taxed at the statutory corporation tax for by the Group on behalf of the taxation to operating costs and around 7% to authorities.
Landfill tax is an operating rate of 28%.
A reconciliation is provided in note property, plant and equipment cost which is chargeable to customers in 8 to the financial statements.
A landfill tax credit of 1.0 million Fuel Excise Duty of 9 million related to was received during the year and increased The Groups total tax contribution extends transport costs.
This reduced profit profit before tax beyond the corporation tax charge.
taxes are incurred by the Group: Value Added Tax VAT of 13 million net was collected by the Group and paid to the taxation authorities.
VAT has no material impact on profit before tax Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 31 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW PENSIONS INSURANCE The Group operates defined benefit pension The Group manages property and third party schemes for certain existing staff of Pennon, risks by the purchase of insurance policies.
South West Water and Viridor.
These were The main insurance policies cover property, closed to new entrants on or before business interruption, public liability, 1 April 2008. environmental pollution and employers liability.
Employee contributions for defined benefit members increased in April 2008 to reflect the There are three tiers of insurance covering results of the March 2007 actuarial valuation.
The first tier is self-insurance in the form of a moderate deductible.
The Group pension schemes had net liabilities The second tier is covered by the Groups before deferred tax at 31 March 2009 of 66 subsidiary, Peninsula Insurance Limited, million 31 March 2008 26 million.
The deficit which insures the layer of risk between the increase was due mainly to reduced equity deductible and the cover provided by external values impacting fund assets, partially offset insurers.
The third tier of risk is placed by a further 39 million employer contributions with the external insurance market.
No further employer Groups insurance brokers assist in sourcing contributions are anticipated in 2009 10. appropriate insurance cover from insurance companies which have good credit ratings.
The net liabilities after deferred tax of 48 million represented under 4% of the Groups total market capitalisation at 31 March 2009.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Commentary and mitigation EARNiNGS GROwTh ShAREhOLDER vALUE It may not be possible to continue to sustain the same This is dependent upon the correct strategies being pursued by strong and able management within the level of earnings and growth of the Group as in the past Group as well as on external factors.
There is a risk to shareholder value if the Group is not The Group has maintained earnings and has successfully grown both South West Water and Viridor able to continue to grow its key businesses and produce and intends to continue to create shareholder value through its strategic focus on water and waste water sustainable earnings growth services and waste management.
TREASURY The Company may be unable to raise sufficient funds Pennon Group has robust treasury policies in place.
These include: to finance its activities through: Liquidity risk Ensuring that the Group has cash and committed loan facilities equivalent to at least one years forecast requirements at all times.
Borrowing repayment commitments are expected to be met as required during the coming period.
32 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Risk Commentary and mitigation TREASURY continued Refinancing risk Ensuring that no more than 20% of Group net debt is permitted to mature in any one financial year.
At 31 March 2009 the Group had cash and deposits of 353 million, and undrawn committed bank facilities of 204 million, giving access to total cash resources of 557 million.
Loan repayments falling due by 31 March 2010 amount to 235 million, of which 192 million is in the period January to March 2010.
Covenant compliance risk Pennon Group and South West Water have entered into covenants with lenders.
Whilst terms vary, these typically provide for limits on gearing primarily based on South West Waters Regulatory Capital Value and Viridors EBITDA and interest cover.
Redemption penalties included in the facility documentation can be invoked if debt facilities are redeemed early.
The redemption penalties vary in each facility.
The financial covenants included in the Groups debt facilities are monitored on a regular basis.
The financial covenants offered by the Group include a provision to re-test the covenants applying frozen GAAP accounting standards.
This is to protect the Group from changes in accounting standards which may have a detrimental impact on the financial covenant testing methodology.
Counterparty risk Surplus funds of the Group are usually placed in short-term fixed interest deposits or the overnight money markets.
Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and from the use of derivative instruments.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which is controlled through credit limits, counterparty approvals, and rigorous monitoring procedures.
All deposits are with counterparties which have a credit rating approved by the Board A1 Moodys AA Standard & Poors.
interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate movements is managed by the use of interest rate derivatives.
The Boards policy is that in any one year at least 50% of net debt is fixed.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the mix of fixed and floating rates.
The Group has fixed approximately 60% of existing net debt up to 31 March 2010.
At 31 March 2009 the Group had interest rate swaps to convert floating rate liabilities to fixed rate, and hedge financial liabilities, with a notional value of 760 million and a weighted average maturity of 2.4 years 2008 634 million, with 2.1 years.
The weighted average interest rate of the swaps for their nominal amount was 4.5% 2008 4.8%.
The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps are used to determine settlement under those swaps and are not therefore an exposure for the Group.
These instruments are analysed in more detail in note 22 to the financial statements.
In addition South West Water has index-linked approximately 25% of its current net debt up to 2041 2057.
South West Waters total index-linked debt of 353 million has an average real interest rate of 1.66%.
The interest rate for index-linked debt is based upon an RPI measure which is also used in determining the tariff increase for South West Water customers.
PENSiONS The future costs of defined benefit schemes are subject The Group operates defined benefit schemes for certain existing staff.
These schemes closed to new entrants to a number of risks including: on or before 1 April 2008.
New employees have been offered defined contribution arrangements.
the returns achieved on pension fund investments Pension trustees keep investment policy under review and use professional investment advisers.
The pension trustees review the investment strategy to improve the match of investments and liabilities.
movements in interest rates and inflation Employee and employer contributions are also kept under review and have been increased.
Further employer contributions of 39 million were made in the year.
Independent actuaries have identified scheme-specific mortality experience which is reflected in liabilities.
pensioner longevity Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 33
