DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW About our businesses Viridor REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE Any authority exceeding its allocation without Viridor believes that good environmental ENVIRONMENT such an allowance faces a penalty of 150 and operational management is important per tonne in addition to the cost of disposing to winning future planning consents.
This is expected to result in the now implemented its integrated Business The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive introduction of alternative treatment and Management System incorporating externally to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal disposal processes at higher cost than accredited environmental, quality and health waste going to landfill sites as follows: current routes.
and safety management standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001. to 75% of 1995 level by 2010 The Government introduced landfill tax as a to 50% of 1995 level by 2013 further incentive to divert waste away from Planning applications are subject to rigorous to 35% of 1995 level by 2020. landfill sites.
Landfill tax applies to all waste assessment by local authorities who will disposed of at a licensed landfill site, unless consider them against the backdrop of policies The Pre-Treatment Regulations 2007 require all the waste is specifically exempt, such as soil waste going to landfill to have undergone some contained within the local development plan from historically contaminated sites up to 2012. framework that has been adopted for their form of pre-treatment including recycling.
Landfill tax is chargeable by weight.
Applications have to address a wide waste, landfill tax was chargeable at 2.50 per range of issues and the relevant regulators are At the same time the UK Government has tonne from 1 April 2008 and this will be frozen set targets for recycling and composting of statutory consultees in this process.
A standard rate of 40 per tonne municipal waste to increase from the current applies to all other taxable waste up from 32 INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL WASTE level of around 35% to 40% by 2010, 45% in 2008 09 which is due to rise by a further 8 MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS AND THE ROLE by 2015 and 50% in 2020.
The Government per tonne per annum to reach a level of 72 per OF PRIVATE FINANCE INITIATIVES OR is promoting recycling by various measures tonne in 2013 14.
PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS including encouraging councils to provide separate collection of recyclables which To assist in meeting their landfill diversion The Government is currently consulting on enhances the recycling rate obtainable at MRFs.
targets, many local authorities are seeking to planned changes to Landfill Tax legislation, There are specific targets for recycling of all let integrated waste management contracts in particular to charge a higher rate for some packaging with financial incentives in the form of covering a range of activities often including materials currently considered inert and Packaging Recovery Notes PRNs and Packaging household waste recycling sites HWRS, therefore charged at the lower rate.
Specific composting, recycling and recovery, EfW, waste regulations affect waste electrical and electronic transfer and bulk transport and final disposal.
Under the Environmental Permitting England equipment WEEE which has its own system of and Wales Regulations 2007 all waste handling, Evidence Notes that are tradable.
In a number of instances these will be financed treatment and disposal facilities previously under PFI arrangements where local authorities operating under either a waste management In order to meet the requirements of the Landfill apply to the Government for the funding of licence or a Pollution Prevention and Control Directive, individual local authorities have capital projects which fall within the eligibility PPC permit require an Environmental Permit.
been set statutory targets for the diversion of criteria.
Successful applicants receive cash funds biodegradable municipal waste from landfill.
known as PFI credits which do not have to be PLANNING FOR LANDFILL SITES AND Each waste disposal authority has been allocated repaid and can be used by the local authority to WASTE AND RECYCLING INFRASTRUCTURE an allowance of the amount of biodegradable fund a proportion of the capital and operating All waste management facilities, including the waste it may dispose of to landfill for the years expenditures needed for the project.
development and expansion of landfill sites, are 2005 to 2020.
These allowances are designed subject to planning permission from the relevant to ensure that the UK as a whole achieves the Councils may also choose to let long-term local authority.
Major facilities such as EfW plants requirements of the EU Landfill Directive.
Under this above 50MW must receive consent from the Subject to some constraints, local authorities they avoid the complexities of securing PFI Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and can carry forward or trade allowances under the credits.
Viridor considers that the operational Regulatory Reform.
In addition waste treatment Landfill Allowance Trading Scheme LATS.
nature of the contract is very similar whether and disposal facilities require an Environmental it is a PFI or a PPP.
The Institution of Civil Permit from the relevant regulator.
Engineers estimates that as much as 30 billion of investment will be required in the UK to meet municipal waste landfill diversion targets by 2020.
22 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Viridors focused strategy is expected to drive further growth Viridor has been operating a 25-year PFI contract with West Sussex County Production of renewable energy is incentivised under the RO whereby Council since 2004, and a 25-year PPP contract with Somerset County Council renewable energy generators get a premium ROC in addition to the since 2006.
During the past year Viridor won a 14-year 450,000 tonnes PPP underlying brown energy price for their production.
This premium relates with the South London Waste Partnership.
In early April 2009 the Viridor to the balance between actual UK output and target UK output.
At present Laing consortium reached financial close for the 25-year Greater Manchester the UK is behind target and many believe it will remain so for some Waste Disposal Authority PFI waste and renewable energy contract, the considerable time.
In addition, ROO 2009 has introduced a mechanism so largest of its kind in the UK.
that such headroom will be maintained.
Eligibility for ROCs is governed by complex rules.
Landfill gas, anaerobic digestion AD and certain other Viridor recognises that there is a range of risks associated with entering waste technologies including good quality CHP are eligible.
into such contracts, which are often for a 25-year term.
However, subject to a careful assessment of the risks on a contract-by-contract basis, the A recent change in ROO 2009 was the introduction of the banding of ROCs.
company will continue seeking to secure such contracts.
The impact of this change is that all landfill gas projects accredited by 1 April 2009 will continue to receive one ROC per Megawatt hour.
This will WASTE REGULATION ENVIRONMENT also apply to any additional capacity provided it is commissioned by 1 April 2011.
Those accredited after that date will only receive 25% of EU Directives and related UK legislation, as well as planning and licensing, one ROC.
Viridor ensured that the vast majority of its potential capacity have been referred to previously.
was appropriately accredited by 1 April 2009.
In addition certain technologies such as AD have been incentivised with double ROCs.
The Environment Agency EA and the Scottish Environment Protection Viridor is pursuing a number of AD opportunities and has currently secured Agency SEPA monitor performance against permit and licence conditions six planning consents.
Major breaches are subject to prosecution.
The EA and SEPA can also require the operator to undertake upgrades to As noted above 38% of Viridors output is under NFFO schemes.
ensure future compliance and, where a pollution incident or permit or These contracts are due to end in 2011 and 2013 after which the output licence breach has occurred, for remedial action to be undertaken.
Prior to the RO renewable energy generation was incentivised under the NFFO.
Under this users of relevant technologies Waste facilities are also subject to the same regulations as other industries, could sell their output on medium long fixed price contracts rising in line including health and safety, Control of Substances Hazardous to Health with inflation.
The overall price per MWh achievable under NFFO contracts CoSHH and the Working Time Directive.
In addition the transport of waste is lower than currently under the RO.
and recycled materials is subject to specific regulation and controls.
RENEWABLES OBLIGATION RO & 2009 ORDER ROO 2009 Under the RO the Government has a target to generate 10% of UK electricity usage from renewables by 2010, and 15% by 2015 compared with around 5% generation from renewables at present.
The EU has set the UK a target of 15% of total energy, including heating, transport and other energy uses, to be generated from renewables.
This potentially equates to over 30% of electricity from renewables in the UK.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 23 s e c i v r e s n o i t c e l l o c e t s a w r o d i r i V DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW CUSTOMERS, COMMUNITY interface: and improving manual handling ENVIRONMENT AND EMPLOYEES performance.
Accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 The most significant positive environmental international health and safety standard has been impacts of Viridors operations arise from the EMPLOYEES achieved across all sites with the exception of two safe and efficient treatment and disposal of electrical recycling sites which are planned to be The company employs a comprehensive range societys waste materials: increased resource certified by the end of this year.
This accreditation of technical and professional managerial staff and energy efficiency from its recycling and is part of the companys integrated business and supervisory, administrative, clerical, energy recovery operations: the capture of management system BMS, which provides the semi-skilled and other personnel.
Many are methane, a greenhouse gas 21 times as potent vehicle for delivering health and safety standards vocationally trained and have extensive as Carbon Dioxide CO : the generation of 2 and procedures.
Membership of renewable energy: and the restoration of relevant trade unions or professional bodies is despoiled landscapes such as disused mineral Viridors reportable accident and incident rate widespread and is encouraged.
workings through the controlled deposit per 100,000 employees is an important KPI and of waste materials.
Significant negative is set out below for the five-year period 2004 Viridors equal opportunities policies and impacts include transportation and associated to 2008.
The company is pleased to note that procedures seek to ensure that bias and emissions, methane production where not the rate dropped from 2,142 in 2008 to 1,505 discrimination in the treatment of job harnessed for energy generation or flared, per 100,000 employees in 2009.
This reduction applicants and employees are eliminated.
leachate production and potential local impacts in reportable accidents was due primarily to an Training and appropriate support are provided such as dust, noise, litter and odour.
increased focus on reducing manual handling to implement this throughout the company.
type injuries and slips, trips and falls.
However Every effort is made to accommodate any Having led the industry in the development these remain the companys largest cause of form of disability by the use of reasonable and implementation of an Environmental accidents and so the pressure to improve still adjustments in the work place.
Management System, Viridors integrated further continues.
Despite comparing favourably BMS now incorporates externally accredited with industry averages, Viridors focus on health Viridor is pursuing a number of occupational environmental, quality and health and safety and safety improvement and performance health and safety initiatives, particularly systems.
This allows clear targets to be set and remains strong.
The company has recruited focusing on reducing slip, trip and fall type met to maximise benefits and positive impacts additional health and safety professionals during accidents: continuing improvements in transport and reduce and prevent adverse impacts, the year and continues to raise the level of management: reducing vehicle personnel resulting in continuous improvement in these training and support available to its staff.
RIDDoR ACCIDENT AND INCIDENT RATEs 27.5 25.0 22.5 20.0 KPI Accreditation to oHsAs 17.5 18001 international 15.0 health and safety 12.5 standard planned 0 across all sites Calendar year 24 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Incident rate per 1,000 employees 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Viridor aims to maintain positive working relationships with regulators and communities Accreditation to the BMS across all sites and operations has been achieved distributed to qualifying community and environmental projects.
During during 2008 09 except for two sites from the most recent acquisition the year Viridor provided 9.7 million to Viridor Credits Environmental which are planned to be accredited in the current year.
The company Company, an independent distributive environmental body.
Funding is continues to report against the environmental performance indicators for allocated at grassroots level by steering groups established to serve areas the waste industry which it helped to develop and which are endorsed by close to operational landfill sites.
KEY RELATIONSHIPS The amount of waste recycled by the company increased from 1.4 million tonnes to around 1.8 million tonnes over the year, of which 1.4 million tonnes were traded in recycling markets.
All waste and recycling facilities in England and Wales require environmental permits, or waste management licences or PPC permits SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES in Scotland.
These are issued and monitored by the EA and SEPA.
Viridor A good neighbour policy is implemented at all facilities managed by maintains a positive working relationship with the regulators via proactive Viridor.
This includes local liaison groups at major sites meeting regularly, liaison and issues management, at both a site-specific and strategic level.
enabling local community stakeholders to be consulted and informed about the companys plans and operating procedures.
Liaison group Local authorities are the largest single customer group accounting in total members include locally elected representatives of the community as for 22% of the companys revenue.
No individual authority accounts for well as representatives of the regulator, the relevant planning and waste more than 4%.
Viridors ROC contracts account for 6% of revenue primarily authority and other local stakeholders.
No supplier accounts for more than 1% of Viridors revenue.
The company sources from competitive markets.
Viridor supports two adopted charities, Scope and the Primary Immundeficiency Association PIA.
The company match-funds anything raised by employees for these charities and also provides a payroll giving facility enabling employees to directly donate to their chosen charity.
Viridor also fully participates in the Landfill Communities Fund, a scheme whereby a proportion of Landfill Tax can be claimed as credits and Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 25 y t li i c a F g n i l c y c e R s l a i r e t a M r o d i r i V DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Commentary and mitigation RiSkS ASSOCiATED wiTh CURRENT Uk AND Current UK and world economic conditions are highly uncertain.
Though less affected than many wORLD ECONOMiC CONDiTiONS companies, Viridor is by no means immune to general economic conditions.
A full assessment of the key risks to Viridors business arising from current economic uncertainties has been conducted, including the following: Landfill volumes may decline due to contraction The majority of inputs are from long-term local authority contracts or Viridors own collection fleet.
in economy This risk is most pertinent to the 40% of Viridors volumes which are not either domestic landfill or landfill collected by Viridors own fleet.
These volumes have remained steady to date.
Landfill prices To date, landfill prices in general have proved robust.
In a prolonged recession such prices may be impacted by increased price competition.
Recyclate prices Recyclate prices are, like any commodity, volatile and are directly impacted by world economic conditions.
The effect is most significant on the 35% of Viridors recycling volumes of internationally traded commodities such as paper, card, plastics and metals.
Collection volumes particularly industrial Currently margins are holding up, helped by lower fuel prices.
Aggressive price competition has customers are subject to economic conditions been avoided to date.
Bad debt collection more challenging Viridors record of bad debts has been, and remains, good based on tight management controls in an economic downturn and the ability to put customers on stop and, for example, refusing to accept waste at its landfills if debts are not being paid.
iNCREASES iN LANDFiLL COSTS MAY NOT BE The raising of environmental standards is leading to a gradual increase in landfill costs in general, RECOvERED ThROUGh PRiCE iNCREASES including engineering results in increased depreciation and restoration and aftercare costs.
Viridor, with landfills engineered to modern standards with good environmental control systems, should incur lower than average increases in costs.
Aftercare costs levels Costs which are assessed over 30 years are best estimates based on Viridors own experience and are updated at each stage of the capital expenditure programme.
Estimated compaction rates tonnes per These are best estimates, based on current information, which are reviewed every year based on cubic metre actual compaction rates assessed by external consultants.
Recovery of costs of legislative change Municipal contracts typically last for up to seven years.
They usually have provision for price increases under set formulae related to inflation and some include legislative or technical changes.
Prices for other types of waste depend more on local markets and competitive conditions.
Prices, as a long-term trend, have risen fast enough at least to cover cost increases.
ThE Uk GOvERNMENTS wASTE STRATEGY, Government initiatives are having an impact and the amount of municipal waste being disposed of STEMMiNG FROM ThE LANDFiLL DiRECTivE, wiLL to landfill is declining.
Assuming Landfill Directive targets are met, the total amount of municipal LEAD TO A REDUCTiON iN vOLUMES OF wASTE solid waste which will be landfilled from 2020 will be five to 10 million tonnes per annum.
If there is BEiNG DiSPOSED TO LANDFiLL.
no change in other waste streams, this would still leave a substantial total landfill market in 2020.
Scarcity of landfill will ensure available voidspace remains a valuable asset.
Generally, Viridor has seen its underlying landfill volumes holding steady, with a small increase in 2007 08, probably reflecting a greater share of the landfill market.
NOT ALL LANDFiLLS MAY MEET ThE STANDARDS Any existing landfills that fail to obtain an Environmental Permit would need to be subject to a closure plan with the EA or SEPA.
All but one of Viridors operational landfills have achieved PPC OF ThE iNTEGRATED POLLUTiON PREvENTiON AND CONTROL DiRECTivE AND ThE LANDFiLL permits, though in some cases Viridor is appealing against certain of the conditions proposed, which might have cost or other implications for the landfills.
The operational landfill which had not DiRECTivE AND OR REqUiREMENTS MAY BE iMPOSED whiCh wOULD iMPACT ADvERSELY ON yet received a PPC permit closed in May 2009 as planned.
ThE ECONOMiCS OF LANDFiLL Viridors landfill aftercare management includes restoration, maintenance, supervision, Residual contamination monitoring and management of gas and leachate levels after the landfilling activities have ceased.
The EA or SEPA will only grant a full or partial permit surrender of the permit once it is satisfied that the landfill no longer poses any environmental risk.
26 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Risk Commentary and mitigation PRiCiNG AND OThER RiSkS RELATiNG TO RENEwABLE ENERGY: Fluctuating brown energy prices Viridors brown energy prices have been fixed through to the end of March 2010.
Brown energy prices will continue to be determined by the world and UK energy market and may go down as well as up.
Impact of oil prices Viridors power generation business may be positively affected by increases in oil prices, other parts of the business in particular collection may be adversely affected.
Changes in ROC pricing mechanism The Government has made a strong commitment to renewables which are key to meeting the longterm carbon reduction strategy set out in the energy white paper and the UKs targets for carbon dioxide reductions under the Kyoto Protocol.
To date, the Government has stressed its commitment to grandfather rights under current ROC schemes, which are not subject to retrospective changes.
Renewables are also important in minimising the UKs increasing reliance on imported energy.
UK renewable energy generating capacity & The value of ROCs is increased by the sharing of the buy-out price monies among holders of ROCs.
licensed electricity suppliers The value of a ROC depends on the supply of renewable electricity relative to the UKs annual increasing targets.
It is also dependent on the financial strength of those suppliers who opt to pay the buy-out price.
The insolvency of a licensed electricity supplier could lead to a drop in the value of the ROCs which Viridor sells.
Volume of gas generated Current and future waste composition including BMW diversion due to Landfill Directive and calorific value is assessed against costs on each landfill gas project.
LAkESiDE ENERGY FROM wASTE Efw The plant is a modern conventional waste to energy facility.
As a result of a competitive procurement CONSTRUCTiON AND TEChNiCAL RiSkS procedure it is being supplied by the Japanese consortium Itochu Takuma on a fixed price basis.
86% of the project is funded by non-recourse bank debt which also limits the risk to the Group.
The remainder is funded by the joint venture, of which Viridor has 50% of the equity.
Mix of waste throughput Efficiencies and output of the plant will be affected by the precise calorific value of the waste throughput.
The plant is well proven and it is a robust conventional technology designed to take the currently projected waste mix.
ThE CURRENT PLANNiNG REGiME MAY Achievement of the Governments targets for waste management is critically dependent on the RESTRiCT ThE AvAiLABiLiTY OF FUTURE wASTE planning system delivering sufficient waste treatment facilities.
Viridor employs best practice TREATMENT FACiLiTiES throughout the planning process.
RiSkS ASSOCiATED wiTh LONG-TERM Risks include waste volumes and mix, planning, technology, input costs and recyclate prices.
iNTEGRATED CONTRACTS RiSk TRANSFER A careful assessment of the risks and apportionment of them between client, main contractor, iS A kEY PART OF GOvERNMENT PFi technology and equipment suppliers, and sub-contractors is a key part of the process of bidding and PROCUREMENT GUiDELiNES finalising a contract.
Extensive due diligence conducted so that risks are correctly identified.
Viridor will then seek to protect itself through contractual documentation with its client, sub-contractors and sub-suppliers.
Viridor takes a robust approach on this issue.
If it cannot mitigate the risks satisfactorily or cannot get a reasonable commercial return for taking such risks, its policy is to accept the loss of such a contract rather than win it on unsatisfactory terms.
RECYCLATE PRiCE RiSkS Recyclate prices are driven by global supply demand trends among manufacturing reprocessors who wish to use the recyclate and national and European legislation setting targets for landfill diversion, recovery and use based on polluter pays principles.
Reprocessing capacity in the UK is finite with limited growth forecast, whilst increasing amounts of recyclate are being sought by, and exported to, the rapidly expanding major manufacturing locations in China and elsewhere.
World economic conditions impact As with any commodity, recyclate prices are very sensitive to world economic conditions.
Prices in the first half of 2008 09 were well above historical trends for recyclate prices but, in the second half of 2008 09, have fallen significantly below historical trend levels for recyclate prices.
Currency impact Non-European export prices and Costs are expected to vary with world and regional economic cycles and with the environmental freight costs for recyclate are set in US dollars impact and increasing cost of sourcing and processing raw materials.
Costs also expected to adjust over time for movements in the value of the US dollar.
Viridor may mitigate any recyclate price risk by sharing downsides upsides with both its clients and customers.
Viridor Resource Management is implementing a long-term national and international materials marketing and sales strategy through volatile market conditions.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 27
