DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW About our businesses south West Water In the current regulatory period Ofwat assumed The review into fairer water charges REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT that the equity cost of capital for all companies commissioned by Defra, known as the Walker would be 7.7% real after tax with an overall Review, is expected to be concluded later in weighted average cost of capital of 5.1% real the year.
The company hosted a consultation South West Water is the licensed water and after tax.
event in Plymouth in December 2008 for the sewerage service provider for Devon, Cornwall and review team attended by stakeholders including parts of Dorset and Somerset.
The company serves Customers using more than 50Ml of water per MPs, business and domestic customers and a region of nearly 10,300 square kilometres with year can contract with alternative suppliers for representatives from Ofwat and the Consumer 1.65 million residents and in excess of 10 million water supply.
South West Water has 45 customers Council for Water.
The chairman of the Walker annual visitors.
On average each day it distributes in this category, whose aggregate water charges Review took the opportunity to meet a customer over 440 Megalitres Ml of treated water and account for approximately 2.5% of its total who has benefited from the WaterCare scheme disposes of around 250Ml of waste water through revenue.
No single customer accounts for more and to see how it operates.
an asset base comprising: than 1% of revenue.
PRICE CAP REGULATION Legislation will be required for any further Water distribution mains 15,041km Ofwat regulates water and waste water charges extension of competition in the water and Sewers 9,221km by determining the maximum increase in charges sewerage markets.
The the second part of its review of competition Water treatment works 40 water regulator conducts a Periodic Review and which sets out its recommendations for reform Waste water treatment works, sets price limits every five years.
Prices are set by of the competition framework, looking beyond including 54 works with reference to inflation as measured by the Retail the assumptions of the existing Water Supply ultra-violet treatment and three Prices Index RPI plus an adjustment factor Licensing regime.
Those recommendations with membrane filtration 633 known as K which is specific for each company.
included the establishment of water companies Intermittent discharges, including retail service businesses as separate legal 1,041 combined sewer overflows.............. 1,686 The K factors for the period 2005 to 2010 for entities and the extension of competition to South West Water were determined by Ofwat in its household customers.
Final Determination in December 2004 and are: Since privatisation in 1989 the company has During the year Ofwat also published two successfully delivered the largest capital consultation documents on accounting programme per capita of any of the water and K FACToRs FoR THE PERIoD 2005-2010 separation, a project designed to lead to a sewerage companies with an initial focus on better understanding of costs in the water sector improving coastal waste water treatment and 14 with the aim of developing future competitive disposal.
The region currently has 144 EU frameworks.
Ofwat states that it would like to 12 designated bathing waters, almost one third be able to introduce vertically separated price of the total in England and Wales, and 132 of 10 controls by the time it begins to set price limits these have benefited over the last 18 years from for the period after 2015.
The company has 8 the companys marine investment programme.
worked with Ofwat as part of a pilot group of The emphasis has now moved to completing a 6 water and sewerage companies to explore the 15-year programme of improving the quality development of these ideas.
of drinking water and providing better 4 customer service.
The Governments independent review of 2 competition and innovation in the water industry South West Water expects to create value led by Professor Martin Cave published its final 0 through delivering the regulatory contract recommendations in April 2009.
The Government agreed with Ofwat.
The contract scope is welcomed the reviews findings on competition reviewed every five years.
As well as determining and innovation.
South West Water is assessing outputs, Ofwat sets prices to enable efficient Financial year the reviews recommendations and proposed companies to earn a reasonable rate of return legislation to implement the recommendations on their assets.
supported by Government is awaited.
14 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts ofwat determination K factor % 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 010 Average Key capital Continued growth investment outputs in Regulatory met for the year Capital Value In setting price limits for South West Water The 2004 Final Determination provided for total capital expenditure of 762 million 2002 03 prices on a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles basis over the five-year period.
for 2005 to 2010 Ofwat assumed the following efficiency improvements: Good progress has been made against the required customer service and infrastructure outputs at 31 March 2009, including: EFFICIENCy ImPRoVEmENTs Activity 2005-2010 Status at 31 March 2009 Water sewerage Adequacy of water resources Security of Supply Index Security of Supply Index 20 to be maintained at 100 was 97.
No water restrictions for the 12th 18 consecutive year 16 14 Leakage control based on three Maintain at 84Ml d 84Ml d achieved 12 year rolling average 10 Asset condition above ground Maintain stable Stable 8 6 Asset condition below ground Maintain stable Stable 4 2 Meet Drinking Water Inspectorate Complete five milestone Four milestones met, fifth milestones for water mains packages of improvements progressing to plan 0 rehabilitation Improvements to continuous Complete 95 schemes Completed 83 discharges by 31 March 2010 Improvements to intermittent Complete 113 schemes Completed 111 sewage overflows by 31 March 2010 GROWTH IN REGULATORY CAPITAL VALUE REGULAToRy CAPITAL VALUE Regulatory Capital Value RCV is the financial base used by Ofwat to allow a rate of return and set prices at each Periodic Review.
The RCV at 31 March 2009 amounted to 2.461 billion.
This compares Actual with 2.408 billion at 31 March 2008, an increase of 2.2%.
This is a lower growth than the previous Expected year because of the movement in year-end RPI being minus 0.4% in 2008 09 compared with positive 3 3.8% in 2007 08.
From 31 March 2005 to 31 March 2010 the company is expecting a 25.7% growth in RCV, the highest percentage increase of any quoted UK water company.
Lower values for RPI, the movement on which is one of the elements of the annual uplift in RCV, have led to lower expected 2.5 growth than that reported last year.
The RCV is 78 million lower than the estimate made at this time last year because of the year-end RPI falling to -0.4%.
KPI 2 Net debt increased by 115.9 million to 1,571.1 million, with the gearing ratio in relation to year-end Regulatory Capital Value of 2,461.0 million moving to 63.8% from 60.4%.
1.5 The RCV for 2009 10 is based on Ofwats projections.
It was set out in Future Water and Sewerage Charges 2005-10 published in December 2004 and has been adjusted by South West Waters estimate of outturn prices.
The growth in RCV adds directly to shareholder value as the allowed return is 0 attributed to South West Waters asset base by Ofwat.
As at 31 march Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 15 % Efficiency savings Annual operating costs Capital maintenance over 5 years Capital enhancements over 5 years billion 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW PERIODIC REVIEW 2009 CLIMATE CHANGE Following submission of South West Waters Draft Business Plan in August 2008, the companys Final South West Water is working closely with many Business Plan was completed and provided to Ofwat on 3 April 2009.
Summary information on the final organisations to assess the implications of plan is available on the companys website southwestwater.
co. uk climate change for water supply and waste water services.
Adaptation and mitigation plans are being developed which will involve Key dates for the current Periodic Review: innovative approaches and new methods of influencing catchment behaviour upstream of Date Activity its water supply systems, in sewered areas and April 2008 Ofwat published information requirements downstream of its waste water systems to protect the wider environment.
April 2008 - May 2008 Companies draft water resources plans published for consultation The companys final Water Resources Plan for August 2008 Companies submitted and published draft business plans the next 25 years is due to be published this August 2008 - January 2009 Public consultation on draft business plans summer following receipt of Defras approval.
It will include the latest information on rainfall December 2008 Ofwat published draft baseline, outputs package and menu and temperature alterations and allowances January 2009 Ofwat issued final business plan reporting requirements for demand changes associated with climate change.
Predictive models are in place to address April 2009 Companies submitted and published final business plans uncertainty.
Infrastructure developments have 23 July 2009 Ofwat publish Draft Determinations for comment been identified, the timing of which can be adjusted if the expected rate of climate change July - August 2009 Companies publish final water resources plans alters.
Increasing efficient and careful use of 26 November 2009 Ofwat publish Final Determinations water plays a major part in adapting to the expected effects.
January 2010 Decisions made by companies to accept Determinations or seek Competition Commission referral INCIDENTS 1 April 2010 New price limits take effect for period 2010 to 2015 There were no Category 1 incidents for the 10th year in succession.
Three Category 2 significant LEGISLATIVE DRIVERS pollution events and 64 Category 3 events were recorded by the Environment Agency The water industry in the UK is subject to substantial national and EU regulation.
This places significant in 2008 which were deemed non-compliant statutory obligations on South West Water with regard to, amongst other things, the quantity of water with discharge consents.
This compares with abstracted, and the quality and quantity of waste water discharged.
Examples of relevant EU directives four Category 2 incidents and 114 Category 3 include the Drinking Water Directive, the Habitats Directive, the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive incidents in 2007.
The total number of pollution and the updated Bathing Water Directive.
The Water Framework Directive was incorporated into UK law in 2003.
It provides a framework for PROSECUTIONS the protection and improvement in the quality of water resources, together with the promotion of During the year the company was convicted sustainable water consumption.
To comply with the Water Framework Directive, EU member states on four occasions for environmental offences will have to achieve the challenging target of good status for groundwater, rivers, estuarine waters and fined a total of 28,000 2007 08 eight and coastal waters, in three six-year cycles, the first running from 2009 to 2015.
The Draft River convictions and 36,100 in fines, as described in Basin Management Plan, published by the Environment Agency in December 2008, confirms that the the following table: plans implications are unlikely to be significant for South West Waters assets at least until 2015, following the successful delivery of a wide range of river, estuarine and coastal water environmental improvements by the company since 1989.
Further significant legislative developments are expected for the water industry following publication of the Flood and Water Management Bill in April 2009.
Many of the proposed legislative changes are designed to implement the recommendations of the Pitt Report which was commissioned after the severe UK flooding in summer 2007.
16 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Pollution incidents reduced by 45% ENVIRoNmENTAL PRosECUTIoNs FoR PoLLUTIoN INCIDENTs Environmental prosecutions 2008 09 Date of conviction Date of offence Location Reason for conviction Fine costs 14 05 2008 09 07 2007 Liskeard stream, tributary of East Looe River Allowing sewage effluent to enter controlled waters 8,000 3,265 06 08 2008 06 07 2007 Brixham Harbour Allowing sewage effluent to enter controlled waters 10,000 1,400 19 08 2008 10 07 2007 River Venn, near Landkey Illegal discharge 5,000 940 19 08 2008 10 07 2007 River Venn, near Landkey Breach of consent 5,000 940 The company always self-reports incidents it becomes aware of and co-operates fully with any investigation undertaken by the relevant regulatory authority.
After each pollution incident, including incidents leading to prosecution, the company takes such steps as are necessary to ensure that the incident will not be repeated and also seeks to ensure that lessons learned are widely disseminated throughout the company.
The total number of accidents has remained stable during the last three CUSTOMERS, COMMUNITY AND EMPLOYEES years with an average of 113 per annum.
A more rigorous system of accident and incident recording was introduced in 2008.
It shows an HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE increase in incidents which it is believed reflects better reporting compared The health, safety and welfare of South West Waters employees remain with previous years and a new arrangement whereby all potential paramount in all its activities.
The company has developed a health and reportable dangerous occurrences are referred to the Health and Safety safety strategy which focuses on providing strong leadership, engaging Executives Reporting Line for advice whenever there is any doubt over with employees, building competence and measuring performance.
classifying an incident as reportable under RIDDOR.
Data for 2007 and These principles are promoted by a health and safety steering group earlier years has been provided on the previous method of recording, comprising a cross-section of directors, managers and employee consistent with South West Waters previous June Returns.
The RIDDOR rates reported for the years 2004 to 2007 set out below cannot Occupational health and safety are key elements of South West Waters be directly compared with the rates reported for 2008 due to the introduction risk management and internal control processes.
We continue to pursue of the different system of recording.
initiatives to improve further the health and safety of the companys employees through the provision of training and promotion of health and safety.
RIDDoR ACCIDENT AND INCIDENT RATEs 22 20 18 16 14 12 KPI 10 8 6 4 2 0 Calendar year Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 17 Incident rates per 1,000 employees 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW The WaterCare programme has been Working with Accenture South West Waters CUSTOMERS commended by the Government.
customer service and billing partner the South West Water has consulted with customers company is investing 4 million in improving about its priorities for 2010-2015 and has Customers are kept informed about our customer services.
The companys monthly used their feedback for the development of its services through WaterLevel, our company customer satisfaction survey shows rising customer service improvement plans.
newspaper, leaflets, the media and our website satisfaction with South West Waters southwestwater.
The company leads the industry in the provision and consultation has been undertaken with of priority services to vulnerable customers and CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CALL HANDLING customers and stakeholders in relation to the has helped thousands of customers in 2008 09 Periodic Review process.
In April 2005 Ofwat introduced a new measure with reading their meter or by providing extra for the overall manner in which a customer help in an emergency.
The company meets regularly with the call was handled.
The measure is obtained by Consumer Council for Water CCWater, which quarterly tracking surveys undertaken by WaterCare, the companys industry-leading champions the interests of water customers.
an independent company engaged and programme to support customers who have It regularly consults with CCWater and other managed by Ofwat.
The data has been averaged difficulty in paying their bills, completed a stakeholders such as pensioners forums and for the year to assess a performance trend.
Since the start of the citizens advice bureaux, prior to major changes For 2008 09 the satisfaction score was 4.5 programme a total of 4,548 customers have or initiatives.
The maximum score is 5.0. been helped with benefit entitlement checks, tariff advice and water-saving measures.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION OVERALL South West Waters Customer Plus programme is aimed at transforming its customer service and making it amongst the best in the industry.
CUsTomER sATIsFACTIoN oVERALL CUsTomER sATIsFACTIoN CALL HANDLING Average satisfaction for the year 5 Average dissatisfaction for the year 90 80 4 70 KPI KPI 60 3 50 40 2 30 1 20 10 0 0 Financial year Financial year 18 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Percentage 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 ofwat satisfaction score 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 Accenture has made significant steps in transforming billing and contact Business customers continue to have access to a secure online system management in its first year with new systems and processes which which tracks and displays consumption on their sites.
South West Waters include scanning and electronic processing of all incoming customer mail: Business Accounts Online also offers a water efficiency calculator with a workflow management: bill production with a specialist sub-contractor: free water audit.
Since the launch of the calculator tool in November 2007, and implementing improved reporting, quality management and audit.
182 businesses with over 6,200 accounts have registered to use the water efficiency element of the service.
Against this background of significant change, service levels have been maintained making for a successful first year and delivering a sound basis OVERALL PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT for improvements in the future.
The Overall Performance Assessment OPA index is maintained by Ofwat as a comparative tool to measure companies performance.
The OPA is The company continues to promote the efficient use of water with advice based on performance in areas such as customer service and complaint and practical support for householders and non-domestic customers.
handling, billing, debt collection, asset serviceability, environmental As part of the WaterCare programme and to investigate customers high compliance and quality of drinking water delivered.
In 2007 08 South water consumption queries, 3,088 audits were completed in 2008 09.
West Waters performance dipped to seventh place amongst the 10 water and sewerage companies fifth in 2006 07.
South West Water continues to support business customers through water efficiency reviews, waste minimisation projects, providing advice for water management plans and by highlighting opportunities for reduction, re-use or alternative sources of supply.
oVERALL PERFoRmANCE AssEssmENT 1 2 3 4 KPI Customer 5 satisfaction overall 6 rising for the third 7 successive year 8 9 10 Financial year Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 19 Company ranking 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 DIRECToRs REPoRT | BUsINEss REVIEW COMMUNITY AND SPONSORSHIP EMPLOYEES KEY RELATIONSHIPS South West Water concentrates its sponsorship South West Water has developed a clear and REGULATORS AND OTHERS on community projects and organisations coherent strategy concentrating on recruitment within its service area which are linked to water, and the development and performance of its Relationships with regulators, Government benefit the environment or promote youth employees.
The strategy is aimed at supporting and its agencies, customer representative participation.
the companys Pure vision values enabling the organisations and its customers are central to delivery of a high quality service to customers South West Waters operations.
The company Highlights in 2008 09 included the companys and the achievement of operational outputs and maintains a continuing dialogue with Ofwat, sponsorship of the 2008 Falmouth Tall Ships cost efficiencies through its employees.
the Environment Agency and the Drinking Water Race, with a competition for young customers to Inspectorate.
It contributes to national policy win a trip of a lifetime on board one of the tall Continuity of the business is vital to its future on developing issues through its membership of ships racing to Porto.
success and the focus on management and Water UK, the industry trade body.
The company graduate development programmes continues works with the Consumer Council for Water to For the second year the company also to provide employees with opportunities to ensure that customers issues and concerns co-sponsored South West Tourisms annual develop their managerial and organisational are addressed and a full understanding of the awards and funded the sustainable tourism skills.
A range of other learning programmes companys activities is maintained.
prize to demonstrate how its Clean Sweep support the development of customer, technical project has helped underpin the renaissance of and operational skills.
PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLIERS the regions number one industry since 1989.
South West Waters procurement strategy is This proved particularly successful when the We achieved the Investor in People IIP Silver focused on partnering and strategic alliances winner of the award went on to win first place Status, which representes the achievement of a with 60 key suppliers who account for the large at national level.
high standard in IIP evidence requirements, in majority of expenditure.
Regular meetings March 2009 as part of our IIP reaccreditation, are held to manage performance, encourage Youth participation projects included valid for a period of three years.
Particular areas sustainable business activity and to identify and sponsoring national junior championships in of strength include the companys approach deliver continuous improvement opportunities Cornwall run by the Surf Life Saving Association to leadership and succession planning: and for reducing costs further whilst improving of Great Britain and the Plymouth-based Drake the production of new corporate values which performance and service levels.
The company is proud to continue to employees understand and to which they support the water industry charity, WaterAid, can relate.
The company is also in the process of setting up through sponsorship and many other funda new Alliance structure for delivery of its raising activities.
In total, 45 organisations and Employee involvement and participation in 2010-15 capital programme.
This will enable individuals across the region were sponsored all aspects of business and organisational the company to work closely with suppliers, during the year.
change is encouraged and supported through particularly small and medium-sized businesses the Staff Council, and craft and industrial across the South West, ensuring  forums.
money for customers and supporting the regional economy.
No single customer accounts for more than 1% of revenue.
No supplier revenue accounts for more than 4% of the turnover and South West Water sources all its purchases from EMPLOYEES competitive markets.
successfully re-accredited Investor in People silver status South West Water sponsors the 2008 Falmouth Tall Ships Race 20 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Commentary and mitigation Tighter price controls over the revenue of the companys South West Water has met Ofwats efficiency expectations in the last two Periodic Review periods and regulated business is on track to meet them in the current period.
Failure to deliver the capital investment programme The company has a track record of delivering its capital programme in accordance with regulatory requirements.
The current capital programme is on track and progress is regularly monitored and reviewed.
The company may be unable to raise sufficient funds to Pennon Group and the company have robust treasury policies in place.
These include policies that finance its functions there are always pre-drawn or committed facilities to cover at least one years estimated cashflow and that no more than 20% of borrowing matures in any one year.
Treasury policies and risk management are described in more detail on pages 30 to 33.
Failure to deliver operating cost savings implicit in the In line with its track record, the company remains confident of delivering the assumed operating cost regulatory review savings.
A major restructuring programme is currently being implemented.
Environmental regulations and quality standards These issues are addressed through the five year regulatory review mechanism.
could increase the companys costs Climate change The company has plans ready and will adapt the way it conducts its business to respond effectively to the hotter, drier summers and wetter winters that are anticipated.
Contamination of water supplies The company has established procedures and controls in place, as well as contingency plans and incident management procedures.
It also maintains insurance policies in relation to these risks, although there can be no assurance that all or any of the costs associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will continue to be available in the future.
Non-recovery of customer debt In addition to existing strategies, South West Water has implemented new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, including the use of property charging orders.
Stretching debt and collection targets with incentives have been agreed with the customer service contractor.
The accounts of major customers are kept under close review.
Provision was made in the last Periodic Review for companies to make an application for an Interim Determination of K in the event of bad debts being significantly above the amount allowed for by the water regulator.
Energy cost volatility South West Water mitigates rising energy costs through careful system operation, by maximising renewable energy generation and by purchasing all forms of energy in the most efficient way.
Pension costs may increase due to factors outside the All defined benefit schemes have been closed to new entrants and replaced by defined contribution companys control arrangements.
Poor investment performance may affect the defined Employee and employer contributions are kept under review and have been increased.
benefit pension scheme assets and increase the Further employer contributions of 28.8million were made in the year.
Pension trustees keep pension scheme deficit investment policy under review and use professional investment advisers.
Water resource adequacy The company has a number of schemes in place to maintain water resources such as pumped storage for certain reservoirs and promotes conservation measures.
In particular, South West Water prepares a new Water Resources Plan every five years and reviews it annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
The draft Water Resource Plan indicates that no new reservoirs are required before the planning horizon of 2035.
However, investment is needed to develop the overall trunk main infrastructure, to expand treatment capacity and to enhance certain pumped storage facilities.
Operational failures The company is able to monitor its significant assets by automated and remote operation and has routine controls and operating procedures in place that are constantly kept under review.
Asset management techniques are employed to pre-empt the failure of assets.
Reduced revenue from falling customer demand The reduced demand experienced in the current five-year regulatory period will be taken into account for water by the regulator in setting a baseline turnover level for the next period.
The water regulator is proposing a form of revenue cap regulation from 2010, which would allow water companies to recover a shortfall in income for a five-year regulatory period in the next period.
Meter option take-up greater than forecast, An Interim Determination of K may be used to fully or partially recover revenue losses if they exceed resulting in reduced revenues the prescribed materiality threshold.
Financial loss arising from the insolvency of a The company does not have material exposure to making payments before receipt of goods and major supplier or contractor services.
The company uses a third party credit monitoring service for changes to suppliers financial status and creditworthiness to supplement an annual risk review of key and strategic suppliers.
Impact of competition in the industry South West Water is assessing the implications of the Cave Report published in April 2009 in order to prepare for an extension of competition for non-household customers in the water industry.
Legislation will be required for any further extension of competition in the water and sewerage services markets.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 21
