DIRECToRs REPoRT ordinary share capital of the Company or b there are no restrictions on the transfer OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION shares in the capital of the Company carrying of issued shares of the Company or on the more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercise of voting rights attached to them, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND exercisable at a general meeting of the except where the Company has exercised BUSINESS REVIEW Company.
its right to suspend their voting rights or to The principal activities of the Company and its prohibit their transfer following the omission subsidiaries the Group are the provision of FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDEND of their holder or any person interested water and sewerage services, waste management in them to provide the Company with Statutory Group profit on ordinary activities and renewable energy.
Information regarding the information requested by it in accordance with after taxation was 91.5 million.
The Directors Group, including events and its progress during Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or where recommend a final dividend of 14.25p per ordinary the year, events since the year-end and likely their holder is precluded from exercising share to be paid to shareholders on the register future developments is contained in the voting rights by the Financial Services on 14 August 2009, making a total dividend for Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code on business review set out on pages 2 to 39 of this the year of 21.0p, the cost of which will be 73.4 Takeovers and Mergers: Directors report.
million, leaving a credit to reserves of 18.1 million.
The business review on pages 4 and 5 and 28 to 33 c details of significant direct or indirect holdings In addition the business review contains a fair analyses the financial results in more detail and of securities of the Company are set out in the and balanced review of the business of the sets out other financial information, including the shareholder analysis on page 110: Group, including its position and prospects, Directors opinion on asset values on page 29.
Key Performance Indicators and a description d the Companys rules about the appointment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing DIRECTORS and replacement of Directors are contained the Group in accordance with the requirements in the Articles and accord with usual English Colin Drummond and Dinah Nichols are due to of the Combined Code and Section 234ZZB company law provisions.
The powers of retire at this years AGM on 30 July 2009 and offer of the Companies Act 1985 as well as further Directors are determined by UK legislation themselves up for re-election.
Martin Angle, who information on employee, environmental, and the Memorandum of Association of the was appointed a Non-executive Director by the Company and the Articles in force from time social and community matters, reflecting the Board on 1 December 2008, retires in accordance to time.
Changes to the Articles must be requirements of Section 417 of the Companies with the Companys Articles of Association and approved by the Companys shareholders by Act 2006.
In addition in accordance with the is therefore due to be elected as a Director at passing a special resolution: ABI Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines, the AGM.
In addition, as Ken Harvey has been a statements are included on any significant Director for over nine years, in accordance with the e the Directors have the power to make environmental, social and governance ESG purchases of the Companys own shares Combined Code he offers himself up for re-election risks and the actions taken in mitigating these in issue as set out in the section on page annually.
The Board continues to believe that Dinah risks within the business review on pages 21, 41 Purchase Of Own Ordinary Shares.
No Nichols, as a Non-executive Director standing for 26, 27, 32 and 33.
Further information on ESG such purchases have been made during the re-election, is independent and that she makes an aspects of the Groups business are included year.
The Directors also have the authority effective and valuable contribution to the Board, in the corporate responsibility section of the to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal demonstrating continued commitment to the business review on pages 34 to 38.
The principal value of 30,448,075 which was approved role.
The Board also believes that Martin Angle is subsidiaries of the Company are listed in note 38 by shareholders at the 2008 Annual General independent and that he makes an effective and to the financial statements on page 105.
In addition, shareholders valuable contribution to the Board demonstrating approved a resolution giving the Directors commitment to the role that he has now performed a limited authority to allot shares for cash TAKEOVER CODE DISCLOSURES for some seven months.
Ken Harvey, Martin Angle other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The following disclosures are made pursuant to and Dinah Nichols do not have service contracts.
These resolutions remain valid until the Part 7 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 Ken Harvey does have a contract for services conclusion of this years AGM.
Resolutions as inserted by Section 992, Companies Act 2006 which is terminable upon 12 months notice.
will be proposed at this years AGM to renew in accordance with the EU Takeover Directive Colin Drummond has a service contract which is these authorities.
As at 31 March 2009: due to expire in two years time, being upon his present intention to issue ordinary shares, normal retirement date.
Resolutions for the above other than pursuant to employee share a details of the Companys issued share Directors re-election or election will be proposed schemes and a Scrip Dividend Alternative capital, which consists of ordinary shares of at the AGM.
The Directors biographies are set out subject to approval by shareholders at this nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out on page 42. years AGM: and in Note 31 to the financial statements on pages 95 to 99.
All of the Companys issued f there are a number of agreements which take No Director has, or has had, a material interest, shares are fully paid up, rank equally in all effect, alter or terminate upon a change of directly or indirectly, at any time during the year respects and are listed on the Official List control of the Company following a takeover under review in any contract significant to the and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
bid, such as bank loan agreements, Eurobond Companys business.
A list of all the Directors The rights and obligations attaching to documentation, private placement debt and during the year is set out in the emoluments table the Companys shares, in addition to those employees share plans.
Further details relating to the Directors conferred on their holders by law, are set considered to be significant in terms of their and their service contracts or contracts for services out in the Companys Articles of Association potential impact on the business of the Group are set out on pages 42 to 46 and details of the Articles, copies of which can be obtained as a whole except for agreements relating to Directors interests in shares of the Company are from Companies House in the UK or by 210 million of term loans and 85 million of given on pages 47 to 49. writing to the Company Secretary at the drawn revolving credit facilities maturing on Companys registered office.
The holders of various dates up to and including 15 August DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES the Companys shares are entitled to receive 2010 which could become repayable upon a the Companys reports and accounts and in The Company has entered into qualifying third party change of control of the Company.
A change relation to general meetings of the Company indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its of control will be deemed to have occurred if they have the right to attend and speak, any person or persons acting in concert as Directors in a form and scope which comply with the exercise voting rights and appoint proxies: defined in the City Code on Takeovers and requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and 2006.
Mergers at any time is are or become s interested in more than 50% of the issued 40 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF The Group also uses a monthly information APPOINTED BUSINESS INFORMATION TO AUDITORS cascade process to provide employees with South West Water Limited is required to publish important and up-to-date information about key a So far as each of the Directors in office at the additional financial information relating to the events and to receive feedback from employees.
date of the signing of the report is aware, appointed business as water and sewerage there is no relevant audit information of which undertaker in accordance with the Instrument Further information about employment matters the Companys auditors are unaware: and of Appointment from the Secretary of State for relating to South West Water is set out on pages the Environment.
A copy of this information will 17 and 20, and to Viridor on page 24 of the b each of the Directors has taken all the steps be available from 15 July 2009 upon application business review.
each Director ought to have taken individually to the Company Secretary at Peninsula House, as a director in order to make themselves Rydon Lane, Exeter EX2 7HR or on the website The Group encourages share ownership amongst aware of any relevant audit information and southwestwater.
co. uk its employees by operating both an HM Revenue to establish that the Companys auditors are & Customs HMRC approved Sharesave aware of that information.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
At 31 March The twentieth Annual General Meeting of the 2009 around 37% of the Groups employees RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Company will be held at the Sandy Park Conference participated in these plans.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions Centre, Sandy Park Way, Exeter, Devon EX2 7NN on are listed on page 42, confirm that, to the best of 30 July 2009 at 11.00am.
In addition to routine RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT each persons knowledge and belief: business, resolutions will be proposed at the Research and development activities within Annual General Meeting to: the Group involving water and waste treatment a the financial statements, prepared in processes amounted to 0.2 million during the year renew the existing authorities to issue a accordance with International Financial 2007 08 0.2 million.
limited number of shares and to purchase Reporting Standards IFRS as adapted by the up to 10% of the issued share capital of the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, PENNON GROUP DONATIONS Company liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the Companys and During the year donations amounting to 74,781 seek authority to make political donations 2007 08 64,300 were made.
Further details under the Political Parties, Elections and b this Directors report includes a fair review of are included on pages 20, 25 and 38 of the Referendums Act 2000, as amended.
It is not the development and performance of the business review.
Additional information relating the Groups policy to make political donations.
business and position of the Company and the to charitable and other donations will be set out This is a precautionary measure which is Group, together with a description of the in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report which followed by many companies to ensure that principal risks and uncertainties they face.
will be available for viewing on the Companys there is no inadvertent breach of the law website at pennon-group.
No political donations were made 2007 08 Nil.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS re-elect Mr K G Harvey, Mr C I J H Drummond Details of the financial risk management and Ms D A Nichols and also elect Mr M D Angle TAX STATUS objectives and policies of the Group and the as Directors of the Company The Company is not a close company within the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes and cash flow risks are set out in the business approve the renewal of the Pennon Group Act 1988. review on pages 30 and 33.
Sharesave Scheme an HMRC approved all-employee share scheme for a further PAYMENTS TO SUPPLIERS EMPLOYMENT POLICIES AND EMPLOYEE 10 year-period INVOLVEMENT It is the Groups payment policy for the year ending 31 March 2010 to follow the Code of The Better The Group has a culture of continuous seek authority to continue to call general Payment Practice Group on supplier payments.
improvement through investment in people at all meetings other than an annual general Information about the Code can be obtained from levels within the Group.
The Group is committed meeting on not less than 14 clear days the website payontime.
The Company will to pursuing equality and diversity in all its notice pursuant to the EU Shareholder agree payment terms with individual suppliers employment activities including recruitment, Rights Directive effective in August 2009, in advance and abide by such terms.
The ratio, training, career development and promotion shareholder authority is required to continue expressed in days, between the amount invoiced to and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination to call meetings on at least 14 clear the Company by its suppliers during 2008 09 and in the treatment of people.
In particular, days notice the amount owed to its trade creditors at 31 March applications for employment are welcomed from 2009, was 48 days.
disabled persons and special arrangements seek authority to authorise Directors to offer and adjustments as necessary are made to shareholders a Scrip Dividend Alternative ensure that disabled applicants are treated PURCHASE OF OWN ORDINARY SHARES as a replacement to the current Dividend fairly when attending for interview or for preRe-investment Plan.
The Company has authority from shareholders to employment aptitude tests.
Wherever possible, purchase up to 10% of its own ordinary shares as the opportunity is taken to retrain people who Details of the resolutions are set out in the renewed at the AGM in 2008 which was valid as become disabled during their employment in separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which is at 31 March 2009 and remains currently valid.
Of order to maintain their employment within the circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report the 6,411,406 shares held in Treasury at 31 March Group.
Employees are consulted regularly about or provided by electronic communication via the 2008, 687,275 were subsequently re-issued under changes which may affect them either through Companys website at pennon-group.
co. uk the Companys Sharesave Scheme for proceeds of their trade union appointed representatives 1.6 million.
or by means of the elected Staff Council which operates in South West Water for staff By Order of the Board AUDITORS employees.
These forums, together with regular KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company  LLP were appointed meetings with particular groups of employees, Secretary auditors until the conclusion of the twentieth are used to ensure that employees are kept 25 June 2009 Annual General Meeting.
A resolution for their up to date with the operating and financial re-appointment upon the recommendation of the performance of their employer.
Audit Committee of the Board will be proposed at the AGM.
Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 41
