BoARD oF DIRECToRs Kenneth George Harvey bSc, CEng, 68 David Jeremy Dupont MA, MbA, 55 Martin David Angle bSc Hons, FCA, 59 Chairman Group Director of Finance Non-executive Director Appointed on 1 March 1997.
Ken was formerly Appointed on 2 March 2002.
David was formerly Appointed on 1 December 2008.
Martin chairman and chief executive of Norweb Plc.
regulatory and finance director of South West currently holds non-executive directorships He was chairman of National Grid Holdings in Water Limited, having joined Pennon Group with Savills plc, JSC Severstal, Dubai 1995 and was previously deputy chairman of Plc then South West Water Plc in 1992 as International Capital llc and The National London Electricity and earlier its engineering strategic planning manager.
Previously he held Exhibition Centre where he is chairman.
He has also been chairman of a number business planning and development roles with Until July 2008, he was also chairman of limited and private equity funded companies.
He is a member of the CBI of Celerant Consulting, an international Currently he is the senior independent nonEnvironmental Affairs Committee and the CBI operational management consultancy.
executive director of National Grid Plc.
In addition, he sits on the Board of the Warwick Business School.
Formerly he held Colin Irwin John Hamilton Drummond Christopher loughlin bSc Hons, senior positions with Terra Firma Capital MA, MbA, lTCl, CCMI, 58 MICE, CEng, MbA, 56 Partners and various of its portfolio companies, Chief Executive, Viridor limited Chief Executive, South West Water limited including the executive chairmanship of Waste Appointed on 1 April 1992.
Prior to joining the Appointed on 1 August 2006.
Chris was most Recycling Group Limited.
Before that he was Company Colin was a divisional chief executive recently chief operating officer with Lloyds the Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and of Coats Viyella, having previously been Register and previously was an executive held a number of senior investment banking corporate development director of Renold plc, a director of British Nuclear Fuels Plc and positions with SG Warburg & Co Ltd, Morgan strategy consultant with the Boston Consulting executive chairman of Magnox Electric Plc.
Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Group and an official of the Bank of England.
Chris started his career as a chartered engineer He is chairman of the Governments and subsequently held a number of senior Dinah Alison Nichols Cb, bA Hons, 65 Environmental Sector Advisory Group and positions with British Nuclear Fuels.
He was Non-executive Director chairman of the Environmental Knowledge appointed chairman of Water UK with effect Appointed on 12 June 2003.
Dinah was formerly Transfer Network: a senior visiting research from 1 April 2008.
Director General Environment at the Department fellow in Earth Sciences at Oxford University: an for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and adviser to Beehive Water and Waste Holdings LP: Gerard Dominic Connell MA, 51 previously held various senior appointments Senior Independent Non-executive Director and for the past year has been Deputy Master of within Government, including being head of Appointed on 1 October 2003.
Gerard is the Worshipful Company of Water Conservators.
the water directorate during the period of currently group finance director of Wincanton water privatisation.
She is also a Crown Estate Plc.
Previously he was a director of Hill Samuel Commissioner, a non-executive director of and a managing director of Bankers Trust Shires Smaller Companies Plc, chair of the and has held other corporate finance and National Forest Company and a director of business development positions in the several Trusts.
He is also a governor of Kings College School, Wimbledon.
David Dupont Chris Loughlin Colin Drummond Ken Harvey Dinah Nichols Ken Woodier Martin Angle Gerard Connell COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Audit Nomination Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Gerard Connell Chairman Ken Harvey Chairman Ken Woodier, solicitor martin Angle martin Angle Dinah Nichols Gerard Connell Registered office Dinah Nichols Peninsula House, Corporate Responsibility Rydon Lane, Dinah Nichols Chairman Remuneration Exeter martin Angle martin Angle Chairman Ex2 7HR Gerard Connell Gerard Connell Registered in England No 2366640 Colin Drummond Dinah Nichols Chris Loughlin 42 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GROUP REMUNERATION POLICY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration package of the Executive The Remuneration Committee comprises Last year it was reported that the policy of the Directors is summarised below.
It comprises three Non-executive Directors: Martin Angle, Group in respect of remuneration was subject salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, Chairman of the Committee, Gerard Connell to review later in the year.
Due to the sad death pensions or benefit in lieu, car benefit and Dinah Nichols who are all regarded by of the then Chairman of the Remuneration and health cover.
In 2009 10 subject to the Company as independent.
The Chairman Committee, Kate Mortimer, the review has been fluctuations in the Companys share price it is of the Company, Ken Harvey, was a member of postponed until September 2009 to enable expected that around two-thirds of Directors the Committee until 27 February 2009.
Whilst it to be conducted under the lead of the new potential direct remuneration i. e. excluding the Combined Code specifically recognises that Committee Chairman, Martin Angle.
Subject to pensions, car benefit and health cover will be a company chairman may also be a member of this review the policy of the Group, which will performance-related two-thirds in 2008 09. a remuneration committee provided he was be applied by the Remuneration Committee in It is intended that this balance between considered independent on appointment as 2010 11 and is also currently intended to be performance-related and that which is not chairman the Board agreed he should step applied in each subsequent year, continues related to performance will continue.
down as a member following the appointment to be to provide for Executive Directors a of Martin Angle to the Committee.
This remuneration package which is adequate None of the Executive Directors currently was because there would then be three to attract, retain and motivate good quality serve as non-executive directors elsewhere non-executive directors on the Committee executives and which is commensurate with the and therefore do not receive any fees for considered to be independent and because remuneration packages provided by companies such services.
certain institutional shareholder advisory of similar size and complexity.
The policy in groups had expressed the opinion that the respect of Non-executive Directors is set out The Committee applies a shareholding guideline Chairman should not be a member of the on page 45 in the Non-executive Directors to Executive Directors and senior management Remuneration Committee when he has been remuneration section.
as they are expected to have a substantial Chairman of the Company for in excess of personal shareholding in the Company to nine years.
In respect of the current year 2009 10 demonstrate their commitment to the future Executive Directors salaries were reviewed success of the Group.
In particular, Executive The Committees terms of reference include by the Remuneration Committee in February Directors are encouraged to build up their advising the Board on the framework of 2009.
Whilst the Groups businesses were well shareholding over a five-year period to a value executive remuneration for the Group and positioned in the current economic slowdown, which is at least equivalent to their basic salary.
having responsibility for determining the the Committee decided that it was appropriate remuneration and terms of engagement of the to freeze salaries for the year for Executive i Basic salary and benefits These are set Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior Directors.
It was also considered appropriate out on page 46 for each Executive Director and management of the Group.
No Director or any not to review the Chairmans annual fee.
are not related to performance.
The Committee other attendee participates in any discussion The Board supported this approach and it determines revised salaries, usually on an on, or determination of, his or her own was agreed, in addition, that Non-executive annual basis, for Executive Directors based remuneration.
Directors fees would not be reviewed in the upon surveys generally available conducted by current year.
These decisions were taken independent remuneration consultants and During the year the Committee met on five having regard to the pay and employment the performance of the individual Executive occasions and received advice, or services, conditions of employees in the Group which Directors which the Committee assesses with the which materially assisted the Committee in are reviewed by the Committee annually.
The advice of Ken Harvey, Chairman of the Company.
the consideration of remuneration matters Committee, taking account of employment As already stated, for 2009 10 a pay freeze has from Ken Harvey, Chairman of the Company.
market conditions, seeks to ensure that there been introduced.
Other benefits, not mentioned In addition the Committee received advice from are coherent pay and benefit structures across below, include contributory pension provision the following advisors, who were appointed the Group which are consistent with Executive or a cash alternative, four times salary life directly by the Committee: Directors with regard to their respective business assurance cover, a fully expensed car or a cash areas and senior management remuneration alternative and health cover.
Ken Woodier, Group General Counsel & packages.
From summary reports on workforce Company Secretary, on remuneration and remuneration and terms and conditions of ii Performance-related bonus Annual share scheme matters.
He also provides legal employment by the Executive Directors with performance-related bonuses are awarded in advice and company secretarial services to regard to their respective business areas, the accordance with an Annual Incentive Bonus the Company: Committee has regard to the general levels of Plan for Executive Directors and based on the responsibility, qualifications and experience achievement of overall corporate and individual Hewitt Associates Limited, pensions and required throughout the Group in setting salary objectives established by the Committee.
remuneration consultants, on calculating and other benefits of the Executive Directors The maximum bonus achievable under the Total Shareholder Return for the Companys and senior management.
The Committee also Plan for Executive Directors for 2008 09 was Restricted Share Plan.
Hewitt also provide ensures that the incentive structures do not 100% of basic salary.
To achieve the maximum actuarial and investment pensions advice to raise environmental, social or governance percentage bonus allocated in respect of the Trustees of the Groups pension schemes.
risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible the corporate targets of earnings per share behaviour.
and profit before tax it is necessary for the Company to achieve a specified level of superior outperformance.
Half of any bonus awarded is in the form of ordinary shares in the Company which must usually be held for a period of three years before release.
During this period the Directors, in respect of these shares, are entitled to receive Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 43
