strong management team Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 26 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 1.
mciob Group Chairman age 58 Group Chief Executive age 56 John White was appointed Group Chairman in April 2006, Mike Farley was appointed Group Chief Executive in April previously having been Group Chief Executive for 13 years.
He joined Persimmon in 1983 and was appointed to He has spent all his working life in the housing industry.
Mr Farley is a member of the Chartered After joining Persimmon in 1979 he was responsible for Institute of Building.
He was responsible for establishing establishing the Groups operations in the Midlands, following Persimmon Homes Wessex and for developing the Groups which he was appointed Regional Chairman for the South.
operating businesses in the Midlands before becoming Chief Executive of the original South Division.
Mr White was appointed to the Board in 1986 and is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Risk Mr Farley is a member of the Risk Committee.
aca North Division Chief Executive age 43 Group Finance Director age 48 Jeff Fairburn joined the Group in 1989.
He was promoted Mike Killoran joined the Company in 1996 and was appointed to Managing Director of the Groups North East operating to the Board in January 1999.
A chartered accountant by business in 2000 and became North Eastern Regional profession, Mr Killoran worked in manufacturing, distribution Chairman in 2005, before assuming his current role of North and retail sectors before joining the Group.
He took over his present role in April 1999 and is a member Mr Fairburn was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009 and of the Risk Committee.
is a member of the Risk Committee.
David Thompson Non-executive Director age 65 Senior Independent Director age 55 Hamish Leslie Melville is a Managing Director and Chairman David Thompson is Chairman of Marstons PLC and Chief of the European Investment Banking Committee of Credit Executive of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited.
He is also a Suisse Securities Europe Limited.
He is Chairman of non-executive director of Caledonia Investments Plc.
The Mercantile Investment Trust Plc.
Appointed to the Board in August 1999, he is the Senior Mr Leslie Melville was appointed to the Board in 1995.
Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and He retires from the Board at the 2010 AGM.
a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Nicholas Wrigley Non-executive Director age 59 Non-executive Director age 54 Neil Davidson is Chairman of the Nickerson Rothwell Group, Nicholas Wrigley is an Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild Leicestershire County Cricket Club Limited and a Director London and a member of its Global Investment Banking of Emerging Media.
He was previously Chief Executive of Committee and Global Management Committee.
He has over Arla Foods UK PLC until he retired in June 2005.
He joined 25 years mergers and acquisitions experience at Rothschild the Board on 19 January 2004. including three years in Australia.
Before joining Rothschild he qualified as an accountant.
He is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Mr Wrigley was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2006 Committees.
and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Richard Pennycook Non-executive Director age 46 10.
Jonathan Davie Non-executive Director age 63 Richard Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 14 March 2008.
A chartered accountant and graduate of Jonathan Davie was appointed to the Board on 1 January Bristol University, he has been the Group Finance Director of 2010.
He is non-executive Chairman of IG Group Holdings Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC since 2005.
Previous roles Plc and First Avenue Partners LLP and non-executive Director include Group Finance Director of RAC plc, Finance Director of Infrastrata Plc.
Mr Davies previous roles include Vice of J D Wetherspoon plc, CEO of Welcome Break Holdings Chairman of Credit Suisse, CEO of BZW Global Equities and PLC and non-executive Director of Richer Sounds plc.
non-executive Director of Credit Suisse UK Private Bank.
Mr Pennycook was appointed to the Board on 14 March Mr Davie is a member of the Audit Committee.
2008 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 27
