Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Business Review on pages 6 to 25 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 39 to 41 both form part of this report.
Principal activities Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of the Persimmon Group of companies the Group and is a public company, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The principal activity of the Group is house building, which is carried out within the United Kingdom and is unchanged from last year.
The Groups main trading companies are Persimmon Homes Limited and Charles Church Developments Limited.
The Group trades under the brand names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
Business review In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, a review of the development and performance of the Groups business during the year and the position at the end of the year with analysis using Key Performance Indicators may be found in the Business Review, on pages 6 to 25 of this Annual Report.
A description of the Groups future prospects, research and development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and details of any financial instruments are also contained within the Business Review.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk exposure are given in note 23 to the financial statements.
Results and dividend payment The Groups revenue was 1,420.6m and its profit before taxation was 77.8m.
As announced in March 2009 the Board does not recommend the payment of a dividend for 2009 2008: 5p per share, reflecting the Companys cautious outlook and cash conservation strategy.
Directors and Directors interests The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Jeff Fairburn and Jonathan Davie were appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009 and 1 January 2010 respectively.
David Bryant was also a Director of the Company during 2009 until he retired from the Board on 23 April 2009.
None of the Directors have any contracts of significance with the Company.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration Report on page 34.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2009 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
Details of the interests of the executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can be found on pages 37 and 38 within the same Report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mike Farley and Neil Davidson will retire by rotation at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010 and offer themselves for re-election.
David Thompson is standing for annual re-election in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008, as he has served on the Board in excess of nine years.
The Directors reasons for supporting his re-election are set out on page 39 of the Corporate Governance Report.
As set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 5 of this Annual Report, Hamish Leslie Melville will be retiring from the Board at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010.
Jeff Fairburn and Jonathan Davie will both retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and are seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010, as they have been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions The Company has not issued any qualifying third party indemnity provision or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision.
Significant shareholdings As at 1 March 2010, the Company had been notified, under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests of the voting rights of the Company.
Number of Percentage voting of total voting Nature of Name rights rights holding Allianz SE 18,098,600 6.03 Direct & Indirect Aberdeen Asset Management Plcs Fund Management Operating Subsidiaries 16,877,874 5.62 Indirect AXA SA 14,923,488 4.97 Direct & Indirect BlackRock Inc 14,630,343 4.87 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 11,971,510 3.98 Direct 28 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 Directors Report Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: Under the syndicated loan facility agreement dated 24 November 2005, as amended and restated by further agreement on 27 February 2009, all amounts become due and payable under the terms of the facility if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
Similar provisions apply to the Forward Start Facility dated 27 February 2009 disclosed in notes 21 and 23 of the financial statements.
Under the private placement of senior loan notes detailed in note 23 to the financial statements the Loan Notes, the holders of the Loan Notes have an option, within five business days of being notified by the Company of the change of control, to require the Company to prepay the Loan Notes held by each holder.
If the holders exercise this option, the amount of prepayment is the principal amount of the Loan Note together with interest accrued thereon to the date of the prepayment.
The date of prepayment must be within 65 days of the change of control.
Control has the same meaning as S416 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and acting in concert has the meaning given to it in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Change of control is deemed to occur if at any time any person, or group of persons acting in concert, acquires control of the Company.
Details of agreements between the Company and its Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 34.
The Company does not have agreements with any employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Essential contracts or arrangements The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
The Group has a wide range of suppliers for the production of new homes.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups business, none are considered to be essential.
The Group is not dependent upon particular customers for the sales of its products as a significant majority of its sales are to private individuals.
Employee involvement The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
Internal Group magazines are published twice a year and distributed to all employees to ensure that they are kept well informed of the Groups operations.
In addition, information concerning the financial performance of the Group is sent to each operating business for circulation.
Further information can be found in our Sustainability Report at www.
The Company makes various benefit schemes available to employees, including a Save As You Earn Scheme which encourages the involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
All permanent employees are encouraged to participate, subject to having six months service at the date of invitation.
Equal opportunities The Companys policy is to have equal opportunities for training, career development and promotion for all employees regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, sex, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, age or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered with appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person concerned.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, that appropriate training is arranged and any reasonable adjustments are made to their working environment.
Supplier payment policy It is the Groups policy to agree payment terms with its trade creditors and other suppliers on an individual contract basis at the time the goods and services are ordered rather than following a standard code.
The policy is to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms once satisfied that the goods or services have been provided in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 31 December 2009 was 16 days 2008: 32 days.
Charitable and political donations The Group as a whole has made donations of 79,500 to charitable organisations during the year to support the community.
Further details of the Companys community involvement and charitable activities can be found in the Business Review on page 24 and in the Sustainability Report on our website at www.
No political donations were made during the year.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 29 Directors Report Acquisition of own shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 April 2009 shareholders granted the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of 30,018,769 of its own shares.
No shares have been purchased to date under this authority and therefore at 31 December 2009 the authority remained outstanding.
This authority expires on 22 April 2010 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
At 1 January 2009, the Company held 2,403,740 shares in treasury 0.80% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date excluding treasury shares which had previously been purchased under authorities granted by shareholders.
During 2009 249,561 of these shares representing 0.08% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares with a nominal value of 24,956.10 were transferred to employees to satisfy the exercise of share options or awards under the Groups various share schemes, for a total cash consideration of 9,196.46.
At 31 December 2009 the Company held 2,154,179 shares in treasury, representing 0.72% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date, excluding treasury shares.
Capital structure The following description summarises certain provisions of the current Articles of Association of the Company adopted with effect from 1 October 2008 by special resolution passed on 24 April 2008 the Articles and the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
A copy of the Articles of Association may be obtained by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Share capital The Company has one class of share, being ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to fixed income.
At 1 March 2010 the issued share capital of the Company was 302,591,431 ordinary shares including shares held in Treasury with a nominal value of 30,259,143.
Further details are provided in note 25 to the financial statements.
Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights, or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or failing such determination as the Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unissued shares are under the control of the Directors who may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such persons including the Directors themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and shareholders rights.
At the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2009, shareholders gave the Directors authority to issue shares up to 20.8% of the issued share capital, being an aggregate nominal amount of 6,240,856 and to disapply pre-emption rights on the issue of shares up to 5% of the issued share capital being an aggregate nominal amount of 1,512,957.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2010.
Votes of members All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and therefore there are currently no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a corporate representative.
The deadline for delivering either written or electronic proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
To attend and vote at a meeting a shareholder must be entered on the Register of Members at close of business on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting.
On a show of hands each member being an individual present in person or by one or more proxies has in total one vote and each member being a corporation present by either one or more proxies, or one or more duly authorised representatives or both has in total one vote.
On a poll each member present in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative, has one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 31 on page 81 of the financial statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employee Benefit Trust may vote or abstain as it sees fit.
Dividends and distributions The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate dividend whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
All dividends and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the Company to those members whose names shall be on the Register of Members at the record date fixed in accordance with the Articles, notwithstanding any subsequent transfer or transmission of shares.
30 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 Directors Report Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors and permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Authority.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board of Directors holds office until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for re-election by the members.
At each Annual General Meeting at least one third of the Directors shall retire from office and shall be eligible for reappointment.
In any event each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting held in the third year following his last reappointment.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008, a non-executive Director who has been in office for more than nine years consecutively shall retire at each Annual General Meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if a he resigns by notice in writing to the Company: b he offers in writing to resign and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: c a bankruptcy order or an interim order is made against him or he makes any arrangement or composition with his creditors generally: d he is, or may be, suffering from mental disorder: e he is absent from meetings of the Directors for six successive months without the permission of the Directors: f he becomes prohibited by law from acting as a Director: or g he is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Powers of the Directors The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
In particular the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back shares with the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove Directors and recommend and declare dividends.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 22 April 2010 at York Racecourse, The Knavesmire, York YO23 1EX.
The notice of the meeting and an explanation of the ordinary and special business is given in the accompanying circular Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors KPMG Audit Plc will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Audit statement The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going concern After completing a full review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details are provided in note 2 to the financial statements.
Directors responsibility The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Further details are provided on page 42.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 1 March 2010 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 31
