Still foCUSed on Key PrioritieS Business Review Strategic priorities Our strategy is to be the leading national housebuilder, building homes ranging from small affordable starter homes to large premium family homes and selling to both the private market and housing associations.
We continue to re-plan our existing sites Continued focus on to maximise sales opportunities.
We will debt reduction acquire new land at attractive prices from The housing market continues to be 1 the promotion of our strategic landbank constrained by the lack of mortgage and selectively acquire land that will deliver availability which affects housing demand enhanced margins in the future.
Continued focus on throughout the country.
Our strategy debt reduction of cash generation, which was very Selective new site starts successful during 2009, will continue to We reduce our exposure to local market reduce our debt, maintain liquidity and volatility by maintaining operations across manage our balance sheet.
geographically and economically diverse Our current landbank represents over six 2 markets throughout the UK to enhance years supply.
Our strategy is to continue our sales potential.
to reduce our landbank to an equivalent Rebuild margins through: We will undertake selective new site starts of c. five years supply so as to align our closely controlling our capital expenditure landbank with expected future customer lower build costs to ensure that we have the right product demand for our homes.
replanning existing sites availability in the right locations across The planned reduction in our landbank will the UK.
Where the market allows, we are acquisition of new land at release capital, reduce debt and improve optimising sales prices.
attractive prices our return on capital employed.
pull through of strategic land at Invest in Space4 Rebuild margins enhanced margins In order to meet increasing sustainability Our business requires in depth knowledge requirements for our new homes and of local markets in order to engage improved operational efficiency, we will subcontractors, plan sites in accordance continue to invest in our timber frame with local demand, anticipate customer manufacturing facility at Space4.
3 taste in specific markets and to assess Space4s new Eco-housing range will the regulatory environment.
Our divisional reduce costs and improve the energy structure is designed to utilise our local Selective new site starts, efficiency of our homes.
The strategy of market expertise.
stabilising number of using modern methods of construction outlets at 370 through We have reviewed our business processes will continue to support site production 2010 to control costs and rebuild our operating rates and overcome any potential margin.
We have dual branded our labour shortages.
regional housebuilding operations with Space4 will continue to work closely with both Persimmon Homes and Charles our social housing division, Westbury Church brands to capture best working 4 Partnerships, to supply affordable, practices and economies of scale.
sustainable, energy efficient new homes We have a very strong and diverse supply into the public sector housing market.
Invest in Space4 to: chain and we ensure we are not dependent reduce costs and improve the on a single supplier or subcontractor for energy efficiency of our houses the construction of our new homes.
We maintain efficient operations by utilising support site production rates to standardised materials available from a overcome any potential labour variety of sources and suppliers, thereby shortages lowering our build costs.
16 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009
