Strength of oUr brandS About Persimmon Charles Church provides the Westbury a range of premium Partnerships business executive homes.
Charles Church is one of the countrys foremost house The Westbury Partnerships business focuses on social building brands with an unrivalled reputation for the housing, in conjunction with Space4, our timber frame design and quality of the homes it builds.
By working closely together provides a range of premium homes, in both modern with Housing Associations, this business aims to offer and traditional styles.
solutions to some of the countrys affordable housing problems.
Top left: Monarchs View, Rowan Park, Dalkeith, Scotland Top: Bath Road, Worcester Top right: Kingsley Park, Witney, Oxfordshire Bottom right: Chesterfield Road, Lichfield Bottom: Longwater Green, Finchampstead, Berkshire Bottom left: Bannerbrook Park, Coventry, West Midlands 02 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 national presence through a network of 25 regional offices.
Persimmon homes is our core housing business offering a wide North Division 2,525 Units sold range of property types.
This division includes operating businesses in Scotland, North West, North East and Yorkshire.
Persimmon Homes is our main business.
We have Central Division 24 regional Persimmon offices from Exeter to Edinburgh, 3,361 Units sold building quality homes which provide the very best in Our Central Division includes our Birmingham, design and construction.
The wide range of property Shires and Eastern regions.
types includes three, four and five bed detached properties: two and three bed town houses: semiSouth Division detached houses: bungalows and apartments.
2,879 Units sold This division includes our Southern, Top left: Heritage Place, Heywood, Lancashire Western and Wales regions.
Top right: Wyncliffe Gardens, Cardiff, Wales Bottom left: The Willows, Westbury, Wiltshire Westbury Partnerships Bottom right: Katherine Park, Corsham, Wiltshire 211 Units sold Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2009 03
