Overview 14 15 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 A fresh perspective, Innovative a different approach partnerships Our Energy Developments business is one of Petrofacs key differentiators.
Its core strength lies in its ability to co-invest with a customer in upstream oil & gas assets and energy infrastructure.
Through this innovative partnership approach, we are able to align our interests with those of the customer and leverage the broader service capabilities of our group in order to enhance project returns.
Creative solutions that deliver Lump-sum contracts, joint ventures, performance-linked reimbursable contracts, co-investment our relationships with our customers may come in many different forms, but they are united by a common theme: innovation and flexibility.
In short, we will endeavour to create whatever solution is necessary in order to deliver value for stakeholders, by applying fresh thinking.
Our competitive advantage is built on a differentiated Training to world-class standards business model.
Commercially innovative and flexible, it enables us to create tailored solutions that meet From creating and managing programmes for major multinationals our customers needs.
We offer a wide-ranging to ensuring that our customers local and fully integrated service, extending from design workforces have the skills required to operate complex plant in hazardous to decommissioning, in addition to co-investment environments, Petrofac Training Services through our Energy Developments team.
We train more than 50,000 individuals annually, enabling our customers to benefit from more competent, safer and more efficient workforces.
Overview 16 17 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 We are an integral part of the lives of our people and of the communities in which we operate and we take our responsibility to them very seriously.
Our aim is to be a positive influence at all times, from maintaining our health and safety record to providing opportunities for our people, protecting the environment and supporting local organisations.
Creating opportunities In 2009 we became one of the founding The extensive support we provide to members of the 100-Club Foundation of local communities is centred around the Higher Colleges of Technology HCT education.
In North Africa, the Middle in Abu Dhabi.
The HCT sets out to promote East and Asia, as well as in the UK, industry education partnerships and practical help and financial donations through our sponsorship we are supporting have been key to helping thousands the continued development of young UAE of young people seize opportunities nationals and enhancing the HCTs offering they would otherwise have been for both students and industry throughout denied.
Projects range from building the centres 16-campus network.
The classrooms and providing whiteboards programme is extremely progressive to donating books and supporting and we believe it is initiatives such as road safety initiatives.
the 100-Club programme that will help us to achieve our objectives with regard to social investment in education, training and development.
These objectives are core to ensuring the future sustainability of our workforce in Abu Dhabi and in other places where we operate.
Integrity, support, responsibility: the difference is demonstrable
