Business review 32 33 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Operating review 07 08 09 Earnings per share Key performance indicators diluted EPS EPS provides a measure of net profitability of the group taking into account changes in the capital structure, for example, the issuance of additional To help the group assess its performance, the Board and share capital.
executive management set annual KPI targets and monitor As reported in the consolidated income statement and and assess performance against these benchmarks on a calculated in accordance with note 7 to the financial statements.
monthly basis throughout the year.
Throughout this Business Review, performance is assessed with reference to these KPIs, the annual measures of which are presented here.
07 08 09 07 08 09 07 08 09 Cash generated from Revenue operations and cash Measures the level of operating activity and growth of the business.
conversion Revenue for the year as reported in the consolidated income statement.
These KPIs measure both the absolute amount of cash generated from operations and the conversion of EBITDA to cash.
Cash generated from operations as per the consolidated cash flow statement: cash conversion is cash from operations divided by EBITDA.
07 08 09 07 08 09 07 08 09 EBITDA Lost time injury and recordable injury EBITDA means earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment and frequency rates provides a measure of the operating profitability of the business.
Provides a measure of the safety performance EBITDA is calculated as profit before tax and net finance of the group, including partners.
income as per the consolidated income statement adjusted to add back charges for depreciation, Lost time injury LTI and recordable injury RI frequency amortisation and impairment charges as per note 3 rates are measured on the basis of reported LTI and to the financial statements.
RI statistics for all Petrofac companies, subcontractors and partners, expressed as a frequency rate per 200,000 man-hours.
07 08 09 07 08 09 Net profit Backlog Provides a measure of the net profitability of the The group uses this KPI as a measure of the business, that is, profit for the year attributable visibility of future earnings.
Backlog consists of the estimated revenue attributable Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited to the uncompleted portion of lump-sum engineering, shareholders as reported in the consolidated procurement and construction contracts and variation income statement.
orders plus, with regard to the engineering services and facilities management contracts, the estimated revenue attributable to the lesser of the remaining terms of the contract and, in the case of life-of-field facilities management contracts, five years: backlog is not an audited measure: other companies in the oil & gas industry may calculate this measure differently.
07 08 09 07 08 09 Return on capital Employee numbers employed ROCE Provides an indication of the groups service capacity.
ROCE is a measure of efficiency with which the group For the purposes of the Annual Report, employee numbers is generating operating profits from its capital.
include agency, contract staff and the groups share of joint venture employees.
ROCE is calculated as EBITA earnings before interest, tax, amortisation and impairment charges, calculated as EBITDA less depreciation per note 3 to the financial statements divided by average capital employed being total equity and non-current liabilities per the consolidated balance sheet.
% US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions 45.7 188.7 301.3 2,440 52.7 265.0 419.0 3,330 47.7 353.6 559.0 3,655 Lost time injury Cash generated from operations rates per 200,000 man-hours US$ millions 0.07 371.6 0.03 586.6 0.02 1,276.3 Recordable injury Cash conversion Number of employees US$ millions rates per 200,000 man-hours % Cents per share 9,800 4,441 0.35 123.3 54.61 11,100 3,997 0.32 140.0 77.11 11,700 8,071 0.38 228.3 103.19 Business review 34 35 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Operating review Enterprise risk management and key risks As we continue to grow and expand our range of Board level risk review during 2009 Corporate and project risk review processes Our key systems and procedures have been externally services, both technically and geographically, our The Board has increased its review and monitoring of We have well-established procedures embedded in the certified by a number of organisations, for example, project and customer concentration diminishes, but all discrete risks to the Company and now receives organisation for the assessment and review of risks in through customer-sponsored audits, and 98% of our we face new risks and challenges to which our risk specific risk reports from all of our businesses at every relation to prospective projects and to manage the facilities have been accredited by Lloyds Register management systems and processes, both centrally scheduled Board meeting.
These reports cover all risks in relation to existing projects.
Quality Assurance to ISO 14001 requirements.
The and at the project level, need to respond.
In recognition areas of risk to the businesses and focus on providing accreditation process includes a review of the of our changing risk profile, we have further developed the Board with an update on specific discrete risks to Pre-award, all new projects and investments are management of material risks and business and our risk management systems and processes to our interests and the management strategies that are reviewed by the Risk Review Committee of the relevant operational controls in place to mitigate such risks.
ensure that our risk management remains robust and deployed to mitigate them.
The remit of the business unit Risk appropriate for the range of risks that we face.
Review Committee covers items such as: Key risks The Board reviews detailed proposals for any Those key risks that could lead to a significant loss Enterprise risk management system significant new country of operations and for any moving to new territories of reputation or that could prevent us from executing Our enterprise risk management system is designed project with a contract value in excess of US$1 billion.
our strategy and creating shareholder value are establishing contractual commitments to ensure that all significant risks to our reputation and During 2009, the Board has reviewed a number of summarised below, along with our approach to shareholder value are appropriately monitored and specific new country and new contract proposals on providing new services mitigating these key risks.
mitigated in line with the Boards policy.
These this basis and requested further assurance or set investing capital enterprise risks to our reputation and shareholder preconditions to ensure that an acceptable risk profile value fall into three areas: was achieved.
entering lease commitments establishing banking facilities and or granting Industry risks the systemic exposure to The Risk Committee has performed an important security fluctuations in core commodity prices and demand additional enterprise risk management function during for our services.
These risks are reviewed and 2009 by providing review and oversight primarily of making acquisitions or the establishment of joint managed directly by the Board and senior non-project specific country risks and ensuring that venture relationships management team appropriate risk monitoring and management systems are in place.
Our Internal Audit function receives all risk In addition, significant new projects and investments Country risks the exposure to external country reports that are presented to the Board or the Risk are also reviewed by a Corporate Risk Review factors that are inherent in the environments in Committee and independently audits any areas of risk Committee and potentially also by the Board directly, which we operate, including security, political risk, that it feels are significant from an audit perspective depending on the risk profile of the opportunity.
Our legal risk and transparency, bribery and corruption, and reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
delegated authority framework defines the levels of exchange rates and local infrastructure.
Project review that are required based on the level of risk.
This teams ensure that these risks are reviewed and ensures that a rigorous assessment of risks occurs for appropriate responses are built into the structure all of our projects and investments before any of the project execution and contracting model commitment is made, and that both project specific wherever possible.
Our corporate functions monitor and country risk factors are assessed.
In 2009, the this risk environment and the Risk Committee of Corporate Risk Review Committee reviewed 38 new the Board provides additional review and oversight.
The Board retains approval authority for any significant new country entry Post-award execution is managed by our project teams Project specific risks the risks pertaining to the and continuously reviewed by our business level execution of projects to customer specification, executives.
Following our group reorganisation on including technical risk, budget and schedule risk, 1 January 2009, the business unit managing directors performance guarantee levels, safety risk and now meet on a monthly basis with the Group Chief environmental risk.
These risks are directly Executive and his direct reports to review both the managed by our project teams.
These risks are performance of each business unit and any discrete also core to our risk review process which reviews risks.
A summary of these discrete risks is reported all new business proposals before any formal to the Board at each scheduled Board meeting during obligations are entered into.
Our business unit the year.
managing directors and their management teams report monthly on discrete execution risks to senior management and the Board.
Through this review process, we ensure that there is constant focus and attention on maintaining and improving our execution capability Business review 36 37 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Operating review Enterprise risk management and key risks continued Industry risk Description Mitigation Country risk Description Mitigation Level of The demand for our services is linked to As noted in the Operating environment section, we expect the demand for our Political risk We are exposed to potential regime We monitor carefully the changing landscape of political risk, particularly for demand for the level of capital and operational services to remain robust over the long term.
Our recent success in securing new change and civil unrest that could affect countries that are regarded as high political risk environments.
This is also the groups expenditure by the oil & gas industry.
and substantial contract awards gives us good visibility of revenues through to our operations reviewed regularly by the Board and the Board Risk Committee.
For high risk countries our management will also seek to limit political risk Our continuing geographic and service expansion has helped to reduce our exposure in individual contracts as much as possible when agreeing contract exposure to some extent by increasing the size of the addressable market for terms and conditions with our customers.
Project risk Description Mitigation Oil & gas Long-term expectations of the price of As detailed in the Operating environment, our business should not be commodity oil & gas may have an impact on the level significantly impacted by short-term fluctuations in oil & gas prices and has Contract Our financial performance could be We have a strong track record of successful project execution which reflects our prices of new investment in the industry and proven robust to significant volatility in oil & gas prices over recent months.
performance materially affected by the performance rigorous approach to risk identification and mitigation, from tender through to may therefore affect demand for our of a relatively small number of large project completion.
During the year we established new assurance frameworks Management introduced a formal policy to hedge a proportion of our direct services.
contracts, particularly those which for technical risk reviews.
The progress made on key projects is formally reported exposure to oil & gas prices from 2009, thereby providing a degree of protection are lump-sum.
Furthermore, our to the Board and senior management on a regular basis.
With regard to financial The financial performance of Energy to fluctuations in the sale price variations for oil & gas.
operational performance is important performance, we do not recognise profits in the early stages of lump-sum Developments is more leveraged to Under our hedging policy we aim to hedge 75% of our forecast production levels.
in maintaining our reputation for contracts and we maintain contingencies to cover unforeseen cost increases.
the price of oil & gas through its cosuccessful project delivery.
We will not undertake hedging until a development has achieved steady-state investment in upstream oil & gas assets, production.
and its financial result may be impacted.
Counterparty Particularly given the downturn In Engineering & Construction, we typically receive advance payments on in economic conditions, there contracts, which generally have positive cash flow profiles over the duration of Availability of The availability of skilled personnel We remain confident that our policies to promote and reward on merit, targeted, is a risk of commercial counterparties the contract.
This gives us added protection in the unlikely event that a customer essential remains one of the most significant but extensive, employee share ownership, management and technician training defaulting on payment terms or financial seeks to cancel or dispute the terms of a contract.
In Offshore Engineering & executive or challenges facing the oil & gas industry.
programmes and access to international labour markets, in particular the Middle counterparties defaulting on deposits that Operations, Duty Holder contracts are generally neutrally-funded.
Our services project staff East, Indian Subcontinent and Asia, involvement in world-class projects and we hold with them.
are often critical to ensure that customers continue to produce oil & gas and, exciting prospects for continued growth will enable us to attract and retain the consequently, customers are likely to honour contractual terms.
In Energy necessary skilled personnel to undertake our projects in hand.
Developments, remuneration is from oil & gas sales to a range of customers, including National Oil Companies, who are generally well funded.
Nonetheless, Country risk Description Mitigation the group continues to regularly monitor its receivable balances and take appropriate action where necessary.
Security We operate in a number of countries We have recruited a new Group Head of Security, who is responsible for focusing where the security risk is significant on high-risk territories, and we have expanded our use of specialist consultancies With respect to counterparty risk arising from other financial assets, we and security services to advise us and to provide protection.
regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that our financial assets are spread across a large number of creditworthy financial institutions.
Our new Sovereign We have appropriate insurances in place to cover all of our staff and as part of and Financial Market Risk policy has established limits on counterparty this cover employ specialist security services on the ground in certain locations.
Business We are potentially exposed to, inter alia, We have made significant progress with our business continuity planning during Further analysis of credit risk and other financial risks associated with or managed continuity natural hazards, acts of terrorism, war 2009.
Our Woking office is now fully certified, and is the first company in the UK through the use of financial instruments, such as interest rate and liquidity risk, and civil unrest that could impact our in the oil & gas sector to receive the BS 25999 certification.
are disclosed in note 31 to the financial statements.
infrastructure, either through the Our Aberdeen operational centre now has a fully implemented and operational unavailability of physical assets or Cost inflation Unexpected inflation in costs While the majority of the costs of our Offshore Engineering & Operations and business continuity system and we have made substantial progress and access to systems and data.
could adversely impact the financial Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions contracts are reimbursed established a workable fallback solution for our key centres in Sharjah, Mumbai performance of our contracts.
by customers, either on an actual cost basis or through a periodically revised and Jakarta which will be extensively tested in 2010.
We aim to achieve schedule of rates, our largest exposure to cost inflation is in the provision of accreditation to external standards for our operations in Aberdeen, Sharjah, lump-sum Engineering & Construction services.
Our exposure to increases in Mumbai, Chennai and Jakarta.
capital expenditure costs associated with Energy Developments projects is managed in a similar manner to lump-sum Engineering & Construction projects.
Exchange rates Significant movements in exchange rates While we operate in a number of diverse geographical locations, the majority of could impact our financial performance.
our revenues are denominated in US Dollars or currencies pegged to the US Our costs are managed before and after bid submission as follows: Dollar.
In contracts priced in US Dollars or currencies pegged to the US Dollar conditional on the award of a major contract, we will typically negotiate where the group is procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, agreements to procure equipment and or arrangements with key we aim to have full hedging on transactional exposures using forward currency subcontractors, on back-to-back terms where possible contracts.
Offshore Engineering & Operations revenues and costs are principally denominated in Sterling, however, as a policy, the group does not hedge the expectations of wage inflation are factored into project costings for bid Sterling profits generated by these activities as they are substantially matched submissions and budgets by Sterling group overhead costs.
While we report our results in US Dollars, our the group maintains contingencies to cover unforeseen cost increases share price is quoted in Sterling.
Our share price may therefore be impacted by changes to the US Dollar Sterling exchange rate.
During the year we established Health, safety A serious health, safety or environmental Our strong culture of health, safety and environmental HSE awareness is central the new position of Group Head of Treasury and filled this position with a senior and incident on any of our projects has the to our operational and business activities and is vital to our system of business external hire.
environmental potential to cause significant commercial management and integral to delivery of quality and business excellence.
Recorded incident data demonstrates our ongoing success in managing this risk Sovereign We operate in a number of countries Management carefully monitor this particular risk and wherever it is perceived see pages 54 to 57 for details.
Particularly, as we enter new geographical change of law where our ability to rely upon our to be significant will take all measures available to reduce and limit the exposure markets, sometimes with new customers and partners, and assume responsibility and contract contracts for protection is potentially through the use of, for example, out of country arbitration and advanced for new infrastructure, it is imperative that our focus on HSE is maintained.
Our enforcement reduced by the opaqueness of the payments.
Specific consideration of this risk is a feature of all new business financial exposure to a significant HSE incident is generally mitigated through our legal system risk reviews.
commercial arrangements and insurance programme, although an incident may have a financial impact on our performance-based income.
We plan to appoint Breach of legal We recognise the potential financial and As noted in the Corporate Governance report on pages 69 to 75, we have a dedicated Environmental Manager during 2010. or regulatory reputational risk that could result from well-established policies and procedures to address these risks, including code a breach of local or international laws, a recently revised Code of Business Conduct which all employees are required particularly in respect of behaviour to confirm that they have read.
The list above does not purport to be exhaustive.
There may be other risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we relating to bribery and corruption.
Management is increasingly adopting a risk-based approach to due diligence currently deem to be immaterial, that could affect the performance of the business.
and risk assessment and is increasing the level of due diligence undertaken in respect of new contracts in potentially high risk countries, including commissioning independent investigation where this is deemed appropriate.
We have also refreshed and reinforced our policy on the use of agents.
