Overview 10 1 11 1 Petrofac Annual report P Pe et tr ro of fa ac A c An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt t and accounts 2009 a an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 200 09 9 Ours is a results business: performance is everything, whether in terms of timescales Making a or budgets, safety records or barrels of oil.
Underpinned by our core values we are steadfast in our approach and focused on delivering the best service for our customers.
difference in performance Relationships matter Our strength is visible in the way we can bring intelligent solutions to a variety of engineering challenges but also in our investment in, and long-term support of, customer relationships.
This is essentially a people-oriented industry where personal dedication to the customer can make the difference.
Dedication to delivery Only meticulous planning will lay the foundations for successful project execution.
We make a significant investment at the bid stage to ensure we identify and plan opportunities to mitigate risk and employ intelligent procurement strategies in order to maximise our performance.
Overview 12 13 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Think different, What makes an individual a Petrofac person?
act different, A personal set of attributes exist in every one of our employees at every level of the business, marking us apart: a restlessness and a desire be different to always raise the bar: a willingness to be accountable for our actions: a relentless focus on the customer: and an entrepreneurial spirit.
Small ideas, Entrepreneurial culture big impact keeps us nimble Taking ownership of a challenge or task There is a fierce desire to succeed within has always formed the cornerstone of our Petrofac.
Nothing is taken for granted, no approach and it remains totally relevant solutions are pre-destined.
We welcome today, whether the challenge in question challenge, pushing ourselves to break concerns US$10,000 or US$1 billion.
moulds and to constantly think of better In our experience, a succession of relatively ways to deliver performance always minor improvements can deliver a significant without compromising our focus on improvement to both customer relationships risk management, which begins in the and project performance.
Boardroom and extends into every area of our operations.
Accountability, customer focus and attention to detail Our people are keen to take responsibility and quick to show it, by doing exactly what we say we will do.
Senior personnel are engaged with each project and take personal pride in keeping customers and partners informed on performance at all times.
