Business review 18 18 19 P Pe et tr ro of fa ac A c An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt t Petrofac Annual report a an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 20 s 200 09 9 and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement This has been another outstanding year for Petrofac.
Our strength in execution, our strategic focus on markets and regions where there has continued to be strong demand and the increasing scale of our operations, have again combined to deliver record revenue and profits.
Revenue grew by 10% to US$3,655 million and net profits increased by 33% to US$353.6 million.
Market overview At the same time, we also expanded our geographic At a macro level, the global economic downturn footprint during the year, winning major contracts in continued to be a major factor throughout 2009.
Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia and Turkmenistan.
Consumer confidence remained low while the banking crisis prevented many companies from obtaining the In an important realisation of our strategy for Energy funding they needed to undertake large-scale projects.
Developments, we announced, on 4 March 2010, the proposed demerger of our UK Continental Shelf oil & gas assets to a new company, EnQuest PLC, which will Energy consumption was hit hard and I believe that also acquire the UK Continental Shelf oil & gas assets it will be some time before we see any significant of Lundin Petroleum, the Swedish oil & gas exploration increase in demand for hydrocarbons.
Following the demerger, this background, it is to be hoped that we do not EnQuest PLC will be admitted to the Official List and experience a rise in protectionism.
World trade is to trading on the main market for listed securities of the challenging at any time, but it is a prerequisite for London Stock Exchange and admitted to the Trading a thriving energy sector, as it is for many others.
List and to trading on the Stockholm Stock Exchange via a secondary listing.
Petrofac shareholders will own Our progress 45% of EnQuest PLC.
Despite the turbulence facing many western economies and businesses, we again experienced Dividends strong demand for our services and have secured The Board is recommending a final dividend of 25.10 significant new orders during the year which underpin cents per ordinary share, equivalent to 16.69 pence future earnings.
The Company has minimal debt per ordinary share which, if approved, will be paid on and a cash balance of around US$1.4 billion and 21 May 2010 to eligible shareholders on the register the Boards policy of maintaining a conservatively at 23 April 2010.
Together with the interim dividend of structured balance sheet has ensured that we have 10.70 cents, equivalent to 6.46 pence, this gives a total maintained a robust financial position.
dividend for the year of 35.80 cents per ordinary share, an increase of 41% over 2008.
How have we continued to grow during a period of recession?
The achievements of 2009 are as a result Corporate governance and corporate social of a clear and consistent strategy.
We have high quality responsibility people throughout our organisation and a proven ability In the wake of the crisis in financial services, regulators to serve our customers on large projects.
Our recent are rightly concerned about risk management and our growth has been reflected in the scale and complexity progression in undertaking larger and more complex of the projects that we are now winning, underpinned projects has been accompanied by continued by our proven execution capability and excellent track development of our risk management systems record in the lump-sum turnkey market.
We remain committed to identifying, managing and mitigating risk in all areas of our Our strategic focus remains on the regions that operations and, to this end, the Boards Risk Committee we know well.
When it comes to investing in major deepened its oversight processes during the year.
infrastructure projects, National Oil Companies NOCs are in a more advantageous position than many other From a community perspective, we continue to organisations.
Many of our customers have continued support and promote education and training in the to invest in large-scale developments through the regions where we operate, seeking to improve the economic down-cycle, and our strength in delivery future prospects of both the local children and of our has placed us in an ideal position to work with them.
In addition to the many programmes which we run with local schools close to our operations, we are also establishing a new training centre in Syria.
Business review 20 21 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement continued Our people Outlook Our growth is inextricably linked to our success We secured a number of high value orders during in attracting, retaining and developing our people.
Added to our existing backlog, these new orders Petrofac has long been a business where the brightest give us excellent visibility of earnings and cash flow for talents are encouraged to do their best work and we the coming two to three years.
are committed to ensuring that it remains so with a number of talent management initiatives planned for 2009 has been a notable year for our group, our strong the year.
operational performance was reflected in the share price improvement during the period and it was During the past year, our numbers increased from pleasing to be named as one of the FTSE 100s five some 11,100 to 11,700 as we brought in new skills best-performing stocks of the year.
Notwithstanding and experience to complement our extremely capable these achievements, we are ever alert to the risks of employee base.
In particular, our leadership capability complacency and recognise the increasing capability was significantly expanded in 2009, underpinning in our sector from firms based in the East, so we will our ability to work on the largest and most continue with our prudent balance sheet strategy, challenging projects.
our rigorous approach to risk management and our complete focus on execution excellence.
On behalf of the Board, I extend our thanks unreservedly to all of our employees across the I thank our shareholders, customers, partners and world.
It has been a privilege to witness their expertise, suppliers for their support in 2009.
Together, we can commitment to excellence and constant focus on look forward to 2010 and beyond with confidence.
The Board This has been another year of stability for your Board, which benefits from great international diversity and a tremendous breadth of experience.
Following our Rodney Chase announcement on 4 March regarding the proposed Chairman demerger of our UKCS oil & gas assets, it is anticipated that Amjad Bseisu will step down from the Board in April 2010 subject to being appointed Chief Executive of EnQuest PLC and the successful listing of shares of that company.
Aside from this, no changes have been made to the Boards composition since the Annual General Meeting held on Friday 15 May 2009.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting two of our long-serving Non-executive Directors will be retiring from our Board.
I would like to thank Michael Press and Bernard fide Combret for their significant contributions to the Board since joining in 2002 and 2003, respectively.
As a result, and subject to shareholder agreement, we look forward to welcoming two additional members to the Board in May, Thomas Thune Andersen and Stefano Cao.
