Business review 22 23 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Interview with the Group Chief Executive Interview with the Group Chief Executive As Ayman Asfari reflects on 2009, he explains some of the key differences that have underpinned Petrofacs achievements and outlines why he is feeling confident about the future.
2009 has been undoubtedly Petrofacs best year yet Why was 2009 such an exceptional year for and there have been many highlights.
Can this success be sustained?
of the year we launched a new organisational structure There are a number of reasons, but the groups which, although essential for our continued growth, continuing focus in our core geographic areas, could have been a distraction, and our teams are to especially the Middle East and North Africa, for be commended for retaining their focus on growing engineering and construction activities has been the business.
The National Oil Companies in these regions have continued to invest through the downAlthough our share price performance was badly cycle, capitalising on the economics of a softening affected, along with everyone else, by the economic market, and as a result, we have secured several crisis at the end of 2008, we charted a steady rise significant contracts on a lump-sum turnkey in share price performance throughout 2009.
year closed it was pleasing to note that Petrofac was the fifth best performing stock in the FTSE 100 and The demand for hydrocarbon production and the only non-mining stock to make the top five.
processing facilities in these regions is significant, and I am confident we will continue to see many other What initiatives are in place to further improve projects brought on line throughout 2011 and beyond.
the groups track record on delivery?
As one of a few Western companies willing and able We are, and will continue to be, obsessed about to contract on a LSTK basis this presents us with the way in which we deliver and execute our projects.
opportunities for further organic growth in existing We have very robust processes and procedures in markets, but I would hope this would also extend place but we are always challenging ourselves to refine to some new areas such as West Africa.
One of the features of our business in recent years has been management of rapid growth while What were the key highlights of 2009?
ensuring our quality benchmark is not compromised.
The year started positively with the award of our Quality management is therefore a focus area for our largest contract to date.
Awarded in January, by the business and is underpinned by other initiatives such as Abu Dhabi Company for Onshore Oil Operations succession planning, along with the continuous training ADCO, the 44-month Asab field development project and development of our management and their teams.
in Abu Dhabi is valued at US$2.3 billion.
Petrofac is now organised into seven business It was also pleasing when a number of contracts were units.
How would you describe the performance awarded to the joint ventures JVs and companies of those units during 2009?
which comprise our Engineering & Construction The Engineering & Construction E&C and Engineering Ventures business unit.
Petrofac Saudi Arabia secured & Construction Ventures E&CV businesses secured a contract from Saudi Aramco for the Karan utilities a number of new and important contracts, and have and cogeneration package.
Our 50%-owned JV with made a significant contribution to the groups backlog Mubadala Petroleum Services LLC, Petrofac Emirates, and overall financial performance.
These businesses secured the contract for the construction of the also continued to deliver upon existing contracts NGL 4th train for the Integrated Gas Development in through the year and progress on their growth journey Abu Dhabi, in conjunction with Koreas GS Engineering with a complete focus on people, quality and safety.
Engineering Services has had a more challenging year, First oil was achieved from the Don area development like all of our businesses contracting on a reimbursable during the first half of the year, with West Don brought basis, because they are more reliant on discretionary on stream within 12 months of receiving field spending.
In addition to providing consultancy and development programme approval FDP : this was a major achievement.
conceptual front end engineering design studies from our Woking office, this business continues to provide vital support and resources for our E&C businesses, and has seen its operations in India continue to expand.
Business review 24 25 Petrofac Annual report Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2009 and accounts 2009 Interview with the Group Chief Executive Interview with the Group Chief Executive continued Offshore Engineering & Operations OE&O also As a result of achieving both the export from Don by What do you think has driven Petrofacs success had a challenging year operating in a lower oil price pipeline via the Thistle platform and the start-up of in 2009?
Notwithstanding this backdrop, the production from the Don Southwest sidetrack well, Petrofac has stayed committed to, and focused on, reorganisation enabled the business to re-define its the first phase of the Don development is now our core strengths.
Our ability to manage risk enables focus areas in operations management and offshore complete.
We believe, therefore, we have optimised the us to contract via LSTK and to develop other risk projects.
As a result OE&O secured two important new added value to be derived from the application of our reward models for contract execution as demonstrated contracts with Apache and BP in the North Sea, while service capability on the Don assets.
On 4 March 2010 through Energy Developments and Production successfully extending a number of contracts with we announced our intention to demerge our North Sea Solutions.
We have an internal culture that is focused existing customers.
offshore assets from the Petrofac group.
If we on the detail, driven by the high levels of ownership in successfully conclude the transaction, our operated our organisation.
While we are now much bigger, every Production Solutions was created as part of our interests in both West Don and Don Southwest, and project is managed like a small company and this is reorganisation at the beginning of 2009.
It is the Elke field will be combined with the North Sea something we seek to maintain as we grow.
It is our comprised of our specialist consultancy and assets of Lundin Britain Limited Thistle, Deveron, culture to believe focusing on the US$10k task in hand technology businesses and is focused on providing Broom, Heather and Peik, to form a new development will help to deliver and ensure performance on the specialist sub-surface technology and know-how and production company called EnQuest PLC.
to enhance production on mature assets.
Production Solutions contracts on a gain-share or quasi-equity Upon its successful conclusion, this transaction will What is the outlook for the next five years?
basis in order for it to align its interests with those of represent an important realisation of our strategy.
I expect our business to continue to grow, but its not the customer or partner where taking an equity stake realistic to expect this to increase in line with the last is not an option.
The consultancy and technology Are there going to be major changes to the five years.
For all the reasons outlined in these pages businesses continue to operate on their own projects strategy, as it continues to unfold?
I believe there will be many opportunities for our group, but are working together on a number of proposals for Although our strategy is essentially unchanged there so we will continue to stay focused on our core projects where we could deliver our integrated offering.
are some important aspects to highlight.
With regards capabilities and markets, increasing and expanding to our investments we have always said that our gradually.
Achieving excellence in project delivery, Training Services is a key differentiator for our strategy is to add value and then, when there is no having the best and brightest people as part of our group and enables Petrofac to assist our customers or limited value for Petrofac to add, to exit and to organisation and paying particular attention to ensuring to develop safe and skilled national workforces.
re-deploy the capital in new projects or to return it we have robust systems and processes in place will During the year the business experienced a change to shareholders.
The harvesting of our Don assets drive our business forward and underpin our ability to in management and in July we welcomed Paul Groves is an important realisation of this strategy.
maintain the quality of our earnings and to ensure our as the units managing director.
The business units growth is sustainable.
core focus in the UK is around its safety training Even without the Don assets Energy Developments provision and in 2009 this was impacted by the remains a key part of our business portfolio and we reduction in discretionary spending.
Training Services will continue to look for further opportunities in which often works alongside other businesses in the group the group can invest and bring to bear its services and in conjunction with Petrofac E&C is designing and to add value for itself, partners and shareholders.
building a technical training centre in Syria.
This type We also see a major market for opportunities which Ayman Asfari of activity will assist the unit to achieve its growth can be developed on a gain-share or quasi-equity Group Chief Executive aspirations as will its focus on the provision of technical basis, using commercial models such as production training and managed services in relation to the enhancement, and we hope to realise this aspect of development of safe and skilled workforces globally.
our strategy in 2010 through Production Solutions.
Energy Developments selectively co-invests in We continue to work towards being able to provide alignment with partners and customers in oil & gas more integrated and therefore, more efficient production, processing, and transportation assets and services for our customers across our group the units portfolio of operated assets have performed and the reorganisation into seven individual units well despite a lower oil price.
During the year the was an important first step in achieving this.
The business made its first energy infrastructure purchase reorganisation has also enabled us to broaden the and the business is pursuing a number of options in management bench.
This will play an increasingly relation to the deployment of the now renamed AHOO1 important role as we strengthen our talent management FPF1.
One the most important aspects of Energy and development programmes, and seek to create Developments strategy is looking at ways in which to more value from our limited resources, our people, crystallise value from any investment.
We have a track as we continue to grow.
record of investing in upstream oil & gas assets and infrastructure developments where we can leverage the wider engineering and operations capability of the group.
Under our build and harvest strategy we continue to develop these assets and when we have added value through the application of our expertise, we seek to sell or swap assets in order to pursue new opportunities to make investments through our Energy Developments business.
