BOARD OF DIRECTORS Peter Hambro Dr Pavel Maslovskiy Brian Egan Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Mr Hambro is one of the cofounders of the Dr Maslovskiy is a founding shareholder Brian Egan is Chief Financial Officer of the Company and has been Chairman of the Group and Director of the Company and has been Company having previously been finance since its formation in 1994.
In addition to this Chairman of Pokrovskiy Rudnik since 1994. director of Aricom plc which he joined in role, Mr Hambro is a director of many of the Dr Maslovskiy is also a director of several July 2007.
Prior to joining the Aricom Group, subsidiaries of the Group.
He is also a other subsidiary companies of the Group.
he was the group chief financial officer of cofounder and a NonExecutive Director of Prior to embarking on his business career, GloriaJeans Corporation, a leading Russian Russian Timber Group Limited and non Dr Maslovskiy was an Associate Professor apparel manufacturer and retailer.
He has over executive chairman of Sundeala Limited and of Metallurgy at the Moscow Aircraft 15 years experience in senior financial roles of several family companies.
He started his Technology Institute.
with Associated British Foods Plc, Georgia banking career with his family bank and, prior Pacific Ireland Limited and CocaCola HBC.
to founding the Group, became Joint Managing He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Director of Smith St. Aubyn Holdings Limited Accountants in Ireland.
before joining the Mocatta Group, the worlds largest bullion traders, as Deputy Managing Director of Mocatta & Goldsmid Limited and Group Marketing Director.
Peter Hill-Wood Graham Birch Sir Malcolm Field Senior NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Mr HillWood joined the Board in 2003.
Dr Birch was appointed to the Board on Sir Malcolm Field was appointed to the Board He has been chairman of Arsenal Football Club 12 February 2010.
Prior to his retirement in 2009 on 22 April 2009 having previously been a since 1982 and was formerly vicechairman of he was a director of BlackRock Commodities nonexecutive director of Aricom plc since 2003.
Hambros Bank and chairman of its Investment Investment Trust plc and manager of He was formerly CEO of WH Smith PLC and a Division.
Mr HillWood is currently on the board BlackRocks World Mining Trust and Gold and nonexecutive director of Scottish & Newcastle, of advisers of the Russian Technology Fund.
He gained his PhD in mining MEPC, The Stationery Office, Evolution Group geology at Imperial College, London and Plc and a number of private companies.
He was worked at Kleinwort Benson Securities and most recently chairman of the Civil Aviation Ord Minnett Fleming Ord Minnett before joining Authority and Tube Lines Limited.
Sir Malcolm is Mercury Asset Management in 1993, where the senior independent director of Hochschild he launched a number of mining and natural Mining PLC.
In 1997, Mercury Asset Management was acquired by Merrill Lynch Investment Managers which was itself eventually acquired by BlackRock in 2006.
Dr Birch is vice chairman of Rothamsted Research.
52 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information General the Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank Charles McVeigh NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director General the Lord Guthrie of Craigiebank GCB Charles McVeigh joined the Group as LVO OBE DL was appointed to the Board in NonExecutive Director in June 2009.
He is also a director of He is the chairman of Citigroups Corporate NM Rothschild & Sons Limited, Colt Defense and Investment Banking Global Wealth LLC, and an independent member of the House Management Partnership and a director of Lords.
He was formerly Chief of the Defence of EFGHermes and Savills PLC.
Staff and the Principal Military Adviser to two Prime Ministers and three Secretaries of State for Defence.
He retired from the Army in February 2001, although he currently holds the position of Colonel of the Life Guards and Gold Stick to The Queen.
In addition he is a Visiting Professor and Honorary Fellow of Kings College London University as well as a board member of the Moscow School of Policy Studies.
Sir Roderic Lyne NonExecutive Director Sir Roderic Lyne was appointed to the Board on 22 April 2009 having previously been a director of Aricom plc since October 2006.
Sir Roderic served as British Ambassador to Russia from January 2000 until August 2004, when he retired from the Diplomatic Service after 34 years.
He now works as a consultant, principally advising businesses on Russia and the CIS and in this capacity is a Senior Adviser to J. P. Morgan.
He is a member of the Board of Governors of Kingston University and the Council of the Royal Institute of International Affairs.
Sir Roderic has been appointed as a member of the Iraq Committee of Inquiry.
Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 53
