Strategy to deliver: Assets AMUr rEGIOn P OTEnTIAL In terms of gold resource potential, it is believed that Amur region offers, perhaps, the greatest potential of all the russian regions.
Below Exploration work at the Groups Albyn project.
main foreign trading partners are not Economy and infrastructure surprisingly China but also Japan, the amur region has a total area of and korea.
361,600km, roughly the size of Germany and a population of approximately Geology and mining one million.
the amur river extends along the amur region lies across the middle 1,246km of the southern border of the section of one of the worlds major belts region and is the official frontier line of mineralisation, the Mongolo-Okhotskiy between russia and china.
This linear zone represents an chinas doorstep is a key locational ancient tectonic plate boundary between competitive advantage for the Groups the Amur and Eurasian plates in which portfolio of assets particularly in the plates collided at about the end of the non-precious metals.
The regions own cretaceous period, some 65 million years economy is diversified with key industries ago approximately the same time as the in power, coal, food and forestry.
There are formation of the alps from a similar collision.
also two large hydroelectric power stations with plans for the construction of three more.
the region has a very varied geological the amur region has a well-developed history: the most significant mineralisation gold-mining regions, with annual production infrastructure and includes the Bureiskaya was associated with very active of about 7 tonnes.
It was the first region in Hydroelectric Power Plant, the Transhydrothermal systems developed before, russia to employ mechanised mining Siberian railway, the Baikal-Amur railway, during, and after the plate collision, when methods and a steam dredge to exploit the Moscow-vladivostok Highway and ocean-floor rocks, saturated with water, alluvial gold.
total production from the Blagoveschensk international airport.
were subducted deep into the earths region up to the present time is estimated In addition, the region is close to China crust and mantle.
The superheated water, at some 700 tonnes of gold with the main and Far eastern ports for access to the finding its way to the surface through hardrock deposits apart from international seaborne markets.
an intense fracture network, dissolved Petropavlovsks being the Berezitovoye minerals such as silica, alkali metals, the amur region is part of the Far eastern and Bamskoye deposits owned by High gold and other heavy metals at depth economic District, which is one of the river Gold and Polyus Gold respectively.
and re-deposited them near the surface.
countrys largest districts and has recently It also possesses a wealth of other minerals, started to move to the forefront of russian including iron ore which Petropavlovsk is Worldwide there are only a small number developmental plans, supported by also developing, as well as base and of regions with such favourable conditions a thriving financial system and the precious metals, coal and diamonds.
for formation of mineral deposits: these growing attraction of foreign investment include sections of the rocky Mountains In recent years, the Amur region has spearheaded by Petropavlovsks own and Andes in the Americas, sections of the been one of the leading russian goldgrowth and the increasing establishment Urals, and more ancient mineral districts in mining regions with total annual production of an economic environment conducive geologically similar environments such as rising from around 10 tonnes in 2003 to to joint ventures with global partners.
the variscan belt parts of Spain, Portugal over 20 tonnes in 2009.
In terms of and south-west England.
Most of the main economic activity tends possible gold resources, it is believed that to be located along the two main railway the Amur offers, perhaps, the greatest the amur region has a long history of lines mentioned above.
However, the Amur potential of all the russian regions.
gold mining with gold being mined there regions geographic location makes it since 1867.
At the turn of the 20th century, particularly suitable for external economic the region boasted 206 gold mines and cooperation with countries of the AsiaFor further details on ranked in second position among russia 24 Pacific region.
Consequently the regions Operations and Development 08 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Trans-Siberian Railway Kuranakh RUSSIA BAM Tynda Railway Solovyevskiy Pioneer Pokrovskiy Tokur Malomir Albyn Amur region Osipkan Garinskoye CHINA Blagoveshchensk Gold mine K&S Birobidjan Iron ore mine Railway EAO RUSSIA City town Khabarovsk Cross-border bridge site CHINA Trans-Siberian and EAO Baikal-Amur Railways the eaO evreyskaya Both railways pass through avtonomnaya Oblast, or Jewish the amur region and eaO Autonomous region borders and provide instant access to the amur region to the west, the chinese markets and the china to the south and east and eastern seaboard as well as the khabarovsk krai on the east connections to Western russia.
the eaO has an The majority of Petropavlovsks area of c. 36,300km just slightly key gold and iron ore projects larger than Belgium and a are located close to the population of approximately Trans-Siberian railway and 200,000 with its administrative indeed the k&s iron ore project centre in Birobidzhan.
in the eaO is located only 4 kilometres away.
Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 09
