Strategy to deliver: Assets G OLD AnD IrOn O re Markets the performance of gold and iron ore markets over the last few years has differed immensely with the steady rise in the gold price contrasting with iron ore price volatility.
have been volatility on the financial markets, country-by-country.
Although a number of Gold increased risk aversion, inflation concerns central banks increased their gold reserves Background and the weakening of the Us Dollar.
in the past decade, the sector as a whole Since 1971, when the US Federal was a net seller from 1989 for the next the change in attitude to commodities reserve closed its gold window, no ten years, contributing an average of in general has also contributed to golds longer standing ready to provide gold 447 tonnes to annual supply flows rising price.
the development of the to central banks at US$35 oz, gold has between 2004 and 2008.
However the gold Exchange Traded Funds ETFs in been left to find an equilibrium price level global recession has prompted various the Australian, UK, South African and US in market trading.
This, at times, has central banks to halt sales and even turn markets has helped to broaden the access resulted in significant fluctuations in the net buyers.
to gold for the average retail investor gold price.
From its former fixed US$35 oz as well as the high net worth individual.
Demand price, the price rose to a high of US$1,023 oz Gold is fabricated for various markets such in March 2008.
In the recent market Supply as jewellery, medical uses, electronics, turmoil, gold dropped back down According to recent figures, there are dentistry and environmental uses.
to US$692.5 oz in October 2008 but about 400 operating gold mines worldwide Generally, jewellery demand, of which India recovered to reach an all-time high and with new mines often taking up to ten is the biggest consumer, is driven by a of US$1,212.5 oz in December 2009. years to come on stream, mining output is combination of affordability and desirability unable to react quickly to a change in price As a result of golds past monetary role, by consumers, and tends to rise during outlook.
According to recent figures, the its market fundamentals do not play a large periods of price stability or gradually rising majority of mine supply of gold comes part in the longer-term price direction.
prices, and declines in periods of price from China and the US, followed by South the basic gold market balance volatility.
a steadily rising price reinforces africa which has slipped from its historic i. e. fabrication less mine supply has been the inherent value of gold jewellery, which top ranking.
russia continues to be an in deficit for many years and has been is an intrinsic part of its desirability.
increasingly more significant producer brought into balance by disinvestment.
Jewellery consumption in the developing globally in terms of mine supply.
this disinvestment is from central banks markets has been expanding rapidly in and selling back of coins, bars and recycled gold or scrap supplies ensure recent years following a period of jewellery.
Physical buying in the gold there is easily-traded supply when needed, sustained decline, but several countries, market provides some demand, but it and this helps to stabilise the gold price.
including China, still offer considerable is investment demand that is key to the the value of gold means that it is potential for future growth in demand.
economically viable to recover it from most Industrial, medical and dental uses of its uses, where it is capable of being Gold maintains a role as an alternative account for around 11% of gold demand melted down, re-refined and re-used.
asset as it tends to be inversely correlated an annual average of over 440 tonnes Between 2004 and 2008, recycled gold to the US Dollar, thereby providing portfolio from 2004 to 2008 inclusive.
Golds high contributed an average 28% to annual diversification for investors.
Historically thermal and electrical conductivity, and its supply flows.
when the Us Dollar is weak gold prices outstanding resistance to corrosion, are typically higher because it makes gold Central banks and official international explain why over half of all industrial cheaper to purchase in other currencies.
institutions currently hold just over one-fifth demand arises from its use in electrical As a result of the current economic climate, of global above-ground stocks of gold as components.
Golds use in medical a new investment-driven phase has reserve assets.
On average, governments applications has a long history and today emerged under a favourable macro hold around 10% of their official reserves various biomedical applications make use environment, the key features of which as gold, although the proportion varies of its biocompatibility, resistance to bacterial colonisation and corrosion, and other attributes.
10 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009
