strateGy TO DELIvEr Petropavlovsks consistent and focused strategy since its inception in 1994 is based around the core strength of low-cost mining assets in the Amur region progressing through the pipeline from greenfield sites to producing operations.
the Group utilises a phased development approach and an experienced team to deliver maximum value to the Groups stakeholders in the region and worldwide.
A model of low-cost organic growth the growing strength in the amur region has allowed Petropavlovsk to adjust and perfect its model of development to suit the complicated deposits encountered.
the organic growth strategy has been a success with low-cost world-class deposits historically acquired at very competitive purchase prices and progressed through the Companys development pipeline all the way from undeveloped greenfield sites to full Strong knowledge base Creation of a Far East production operations.
the acknowledged mining champion Petropavlovsks key operational success of this strategy at both the management possess an enormous the combination of a low-cost organic Pokrovskiy mine and now Pioneer has wealth of experience in russia and the developmental model, a wealth of enhanced the Groups reputation and has amur region in all aspects of the mine opportunities in a rapidly-growing russian provided confidence that the schedule development process, from exploration region, an advantageous location on the for the next developments at Malomir, to feasibility through to construction and doorstep to the worlds growth engine and albyn and in the Groups non-Precious day-to-day operation.
This knowledge a bedrock of knowledge with considerable Metals Division can be achieved.
base has been cascaded throughout the investment in the Groups expertise has organisation and has inspired the strategic placed Petropavlovsk in a strong position Location provides unique commitment to supplement this solid to create a regional mining champion in opportunities platform with considerable investment in the Far East of russia.
The Group firmly the Groups other key competitive areas of believes that its core strategic attributes the organic growth model detailed technology and innovation.
In this regard, of the right assets, a highly-qualified team, above has been made possible with the the in-house capabilities encompassing the right technology and level of innovation singular attributes of the Groups location exploration, engineering, construction will continue to generate an increase in the amur region.
the region has a long and laboratory divisions have played a in profitability.
tradition of gold mining and remains highly major role in advancing the Group to its prospective with deposits of gold still current position in the russian gold-mining remaining to be explored.
Petropavlovsk industry and will continue to be crucial in has capitalised on this and has built up a the coming years as the Groups strong considerable portfolio of assets throughout rate of growth is projected to continue.
the Amur region, providing opportunities for further production growth over the next decade and beyond.
Above right Worker at the Groups Kuranakh project.
04 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Profitability and efficiency Technology and innovation Teams and skills Assets Technology Profitability Assets Teams and skills and innovation and efficiency a portfolio of 124 licences in excellent local knowledge a growing technical and an emphasis on Assets, Team ten prospective regions of combined with a strong scientific resource base and skills and technology and russia incorporating a number management team and supporting dynamic future Innovation allied to a strong of low development cost dedicated local workforce development and a continual efficiency drive and rising deposits with a series of provide the Group with introduction of innovations production has led to increased promising exploration targets to a comprehensive talent enhances the Groups profitability and laid the sustain growth in the long term.
pool to choose from which ability to progress all types foundations for sustainable is supplemented by of deposits through the future development and Petropavlovsks longproject pipeline.
standing programme of support of regional education.
Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 05
