Strategy to deliver: Technology and innovation OUR SKILLS AND RESOURCES The Group is building a natural resources champion in the Russian Far East using the Groups exceptional portfolio of assets and wealth of experience and expertise.
1 3 Exploration division 2 3 Technological support Regis Laboratory complex Regis, based in Blagoveschensk, was established in 1994 The creation of the Groups technical support base began and its acquisition by the Group was completed in 2006.
Regiss simultaneously with the launching of the Pokrovskiy mine in prime aim is to oversee predominantly the precious metals 1999 when a testing and analysis laboratory was founded.
exploration needs of the Group.
Regis performs the whole With the ongoing development of the Group and its increased spectrum of geological exploration from initial surveying to year-on-year gold production, its technological support base has detailed delineation of ore bodies and also the full scope of also expanded.
Today the Group has a network of laboratories, engineering for final feasibility studies.
As of 31 December 2009 equipped with the highest-quality, world-class equipment and Regis employed 620 specialists, qualified geologists, minestaffed by extremely skilled and trained personnel.
In 2009, the surveyors and computer modelling specialists.
capacity of the entire laboratory network reached 860,000 samples per annum of which 300,000 were fire assay sampling.
Regis provides a full range of exploration work for gold, iron-ore and non-ferrous ore bodies, as well as offering expertise in Metallurgical Test Plant mineral resources of the Amur Region.
The company is equipped with the latest drilling and excavating technology as In 2009, this network of laboratories was supplemented with well as state-of-the-art GPS surveying equipment.
In 2009, a state-of-the-art metallurgical test plant in Blagoveschensk Regis carried out almost 100,000 metres of drilling, and a first of its kind in the Russian Far East.
This project gives 0.7 million cubic metres of trenching.
Petropavlovsk the flexibility to test any type of gold recovery process under conditions approximating real production.
Dalgeologiya Such test work means that it will be possible to introduce the most cost-efficient, productive and innovative processes at the Dalgeologiya, based in Khabarovsk, was established in 2006 to Groups mining projects in the Russian Far East.
The capacity support the group with surveying and exploration work for the of the test plant is 0.5 tonnes per hour.
establishment of reserves and resources, principally at the Groups non-precious metal projects and to replace the Groups external Scientific Research Centre contractor in performing part of Petropavlovsks exploration work.
As at 31 December 2009, the company employed more The Groups expertise in pressure oxidation is principally than 240 specialists involved in all phases of geological represented by Gidrometallurgiya, a scientific research centre surveying from drilling experts to geological engineers.
based in St. Petersburg, with certain specialists having previous experience with Norilsk Nickel and with vast experience in the Dalgeologiyas basic work involves core drilling and the research and development of pressure oxidation technology.
It is geophysical studies of bore holes whilst detailed exploration equipped with state-of-the-art autoclave laboratory facilities and work includes different methods of geophysical and is currently testing the most recent developments in this field.
The firm utilises a wide array of geological It was established to undertake work on extraction methods that instrumentation, geophysical and mine-drilling equipment and could increase the productivity at projected and producing mines cross-country technical trucks.
In 2009, Dalgeologiya carried and was acquired by the Group in 2008.
The centre has particular out almost 55,000 metres of drilling, and 0.4 million cubic metres expertise in gold extraction from refractory sulphide ores, where of trenching.
it is necessary to use high pressure oxidation technology.
For further details on the For further details on the 41 41 Exploration division Groups laboratories 14 Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Exploration Feasibility Construction Production 4 3 Construction division 3 3 Engineering division 2 3 Technological support 3rd Largest gold producer in Russia 1 3 Exploration division 3 3 Engineering division 3 3 Engineering division Giproruda PHM Engineering Based in St. Petersburg, Giproruda is one of the oldest leading PHM Engineering was established in 2005 and since then mining engineering institutes in Russia which was part-acquired has grown from a small group of experienced engineers into by Aricom plc now part of the Group in 2007.
Its scope of a respected scientific institution and now has 142 employees, work includes the design, coordination of construction and six of which are PhD holders.
As a key part of Petropavlovsks commissioning of quarries and mines, including those in engineering unit, it conducts project work for mining and challenging geological and climatic conditions.
Since it was processing enterprises, energy facilities and infrastructure, takes established in 1931, the institute has made significant contributions part in preparation of feasibility studies for the Groups new to the ferrous and non-ferrous mining industry, the chemical and projects and supervises the engineering and building of all salt industries and the production of building materials.
industrial units within the Group.
This team was significantly strengthened by the acquisition of a 99% interest in OJSC As at 31 December 2009 the institute employed 165 specialists, Irgiredmet, a leading Russian geological consultancy.
five of whom are PhD holders.
Irgiredmet 4 3 Construction division Irgiredmet, which is also known as the Irkutsk Research Institute of Precious and Rare Metals and Diamonds is one of the largest Kapstroi and most respected gold prospecting institutes in Russia, which was founded in 1871.
It was acquired by Petropavlovsk Established in 2005, Kapstroi has so far carried out most of the in 2006 2007 and, as at 31 December 2009, employed c. 270 construction work for the Group.
As of 31 December 2009 highly-skilled specialists including 27 PhD equivalent holders.
Kapstroi employed 1,450 construction workers and building engineers.
Its General Director, Valery Alekseev, has been with the Irgiredmet provides the Group with metallurgical testwork, bulk Group since inception and has previous experience of the sampling, mine planning, infrastructure design, project evaluation construction of world-class mines and production units in and preparation of feasibility studies.
It has facilities for sample Uzbekistan and other former Soviet republics.
preparation and leaching, smelting, flotation and purification.
Within the last five years Irgiredmet has registered more than Although Kapstroi was formally established as a separate entity 25 patents in the fields of mining, metallurgy and environmental in 2005, the decision to develop mines in-house was one the protection.
The institute houses ten specialised technological Group took at inception with the construction of the heap leach laboratories, a design division, an  and RIP processing facilities at Pokrovskiy.
The reason for this factory, an analytical centre, a patent division, an information approach was because the Group perceived there to be a department and a dedicated department for the processing of deficiency of suitable companies in industrial contractors in the secondary precious metals.
Far East of Russia and in-house mine development enable the Group to streamline costs.
Recently Irgiredmet and PHM Engineering worked together to create an X-ray radiometric separation facility for the extraction In recent years Kapstrois construction projects include the of gold-bearing ore at the Groups Tokur project.
processing facilities at Pioneer, a processing plant at Odolgo, the mining and processing facilities at Kuranakh and the Blagoveschensk pilot plant.
For further details on the For further details on the 42 43 Engineering division Construction division Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Greenfield
