Strategy to deliver: Assets G OlD MInInG In rUSSIA there has been a history of gold mining in russia for well over 250 years with one of the countrys oldest mines, Berezovskoye, located in the Urals, still in production after more than 200 years.
Elsewhere, the Amur, Krasnoyarsk and Irkutsk regions have over 100 years of gold-mining history behind them and remain some of russias most important gold-producing regions.
Major producing gold mines Major gold mines and deposits and deposits Areas of gold-bearing alluvial elds Kyuchus Talnakh Kupol Novogodnee Monto RUSSIA Petropavlovskoye Kubaka Lunhoye Nezhdaninskoe Natalka Titimukhta Dukat Voro Sukhoi Log Blagodatnoye Vysochaishy Olympiada Zapadnoye Khakanja Verninskoye Berezitovy Pioneer Malomir Mnogovershinnoe Tokur Pokrovskiy Albyn Albazino For further details on the 24 Precious Metals Division 06 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information The Russian gold-mining The Russian legal Mine production Winners and losers tonnes industry today environment -30 0 30 60 1 Indonesia For many years during the soviet period, the russian legal framework for mining the russian gold-mining industry was one companies includes royalty taxes 2 china of the main leaders in the global goldon mining and minerals exploitation, 3 russia mining industry.
During the mid to late environmental requirements and a high 4 australia 1990s, mine production began to come degree of scrutiny from governments at all 5 Burkina Faso under private control and gold output fell levels.
this provides a tightly regulated but 6 Kyrgyzstan appreciably because of lack of investment fair environment for companies to explore, 7 South Africa and the withdrawal of government financial develop and generate high returns from 8 Usa support.
In recent years, however, the their assets.
industry has begun to recover and appears Source: GFMS.
Figures represent year-on-year the use of mineral resources in russia is change, 2009E less 2008. to have embarked on a new era.
based on three main principles: Investment in the industry has increased 1 State ownership of subsoil: and this has coincided with a shift away World gold reserves and resources mm oz from the seasonal alluvial operations 2 Private ownership of the extracted 1 South Africa 997 29.7% towards year-round hard-rock mining.
minerals: Petropavlovsk is at the forefront of this 2 russia 225 6.7% 3 Paying for subsoil use.
Overall, gold-mine production in 3 australia 193 5.8% russia has been increasing in recent years 4 Indonesia 193 5.8% state licences to explore and exploit countering the worldwide downwards a deposit are available to any business 5 Usa 177 5.3% trend and in 2009 grew by over 8% enterprise including foreign ones through 6 Canada 135 4.0% versus 2008. open tender or auction.
the licence holder 7 China 132 3.9% is entitled to conduct geological studies the Group is contributing to the restoration 8 chile 109 3.3% and or mining within a certain time period of the russian gold industrys lost 9 Mexico 109 3.3% deemed sufficient to complete work competitive position and demonstrating 10 Ghana 87 2.6% on pre-negotiated terms.
For foreign the attractiveness of one of the most 11 Brazil 80 2.4% companies, the russian state has the inviting and dynamically developing right to impose restrictions on the use Other 916 27.2% industries within the world mining of subsoil areas deemed to have community.
Source: UsGs Tradition Cost advantages throughout the long history of gold mining key to the development of gold mining in russia, the problem of depletion has in russia has been its relatively low cost never been an issue with the country compared to the global industry averages.
currently second in the world in terms of Many of the leading russian gold producers estimated gold reserves.
Historically a have production costs far below global major part of gold has been produced from averages.
the low cost has been due to alluvial deposits.
The major gold-bearing the availability of local skilled workers deposits are located in very remote areas and highly-qualified engineers thereby and are yet to be fully exploited.
those that negating the need for comparatively have been mined, or are currently being higher expatriate labour expenses, mined, have a relatively high gold content cheaper electricity and fuel costs and and suitable for open-pit operations.
also the wealth of available scientific and technical expertise in the country.
Expertise In addition, many mining regions of russia the russian mining tradition favoured the have well-developed energy and transport development of scientific and technical infrastructure with the obvious example expertise within the country that is still being the longest railway in the world prevalent today.
For example, Irgiredmet, the Trans-Siberian railway.
the Petropavlovsk-owned leading research and scientific consulting institute for Below Gold-bearing ore from the Groups precious and rare metals and diamonds, Pioneer mine.
will celebrate its 140th anniversary on 18 January 2011. new technology has allowed russian companies to increase mining and processing cost efficiencies and economically develop more complex ore bodies.
The Groups gold mine at Pioneer, for example, launched the first commercial application of direct cyanidation technology using the innovative resin PuroGold, in the 1990s.
Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 07
