Strategy to deliver: Team and skills I nvESTInG I n ExPErTISE Petropavlovsk has a long-term programme of I chose to specialise in analytical investing in various educational projects within the chemistry during my fifth year at the Blagoveschensk State regions where it operates, enabling the Group to Pedagogical University after visiting supply its production facilities with locally-qualified the Petropavlovsk laboratory in Blagoveschensk.
I was attracted personnel and meet its future human resource by its state-of-the-art facilities at the laboratory.
Our class was the first to requirements.
be run on the joint University company scheme.
My university education has given me a good practical and Groups laboratories.
In addition experts The Groups education policy theoretical base.
the result is that from the non-Precious Metals Division I now work with cutting-edge the Group recognises the importance have collaborated with a university in the equipment which is operated by of developing the next generation of amur region to establish a new minerals experienced specialists.
I am therefore skilled labourers, engineers, technicians curriculum, to prepare specialists in consistently improving my qualifications and middle-managers, as well as key staff benefication for the Groups future and experience and am aiming to at project level.
this has led the Group to iron-ore projects in the region.
Well over be promoted to engineer in the very develop a wide-ranging educational policy, 200 people are now studying on this near future.
which in turn has ensured that individuals and other university programmes are able to reach their full potential, has Tatiana Filippova providing Petropavlovsk, and the improved the prospects and quality of life technician russian mining industry as a whole, for many people, and has benefited the analytical services laboratory with a future talent pool.
Employee training Investing in local education programmes The Groups education policy envisages the Group is committed to improving and supporting kindergartens and primary and broadening the qualifications, horizons secondary schools throughout the amur and job progression opportunities of its region.
the Group believes that this policy employees via internal and external training offers children an opportunity to obtain seminars and courses.
the Group is proud the best possible start in life which will to offer its employees the opportunity to guarantee their future professional study for higher-education diplomas.
In development and success either within 2009, 63 employees were studying at or outside Petropavlovsk.
I came to the Pokrovskiy mine after higher education institutions throughout graduating from the Blagoveschensk russia, from vladivostok to St. Petersburg.
I started work as and higher education a crusher operator at the heap leaching Fostering expertise institutions site and having worked for two years, The Groups research institutions and I approached our management with In 2008 Petropavlovsk established a laboratories are developing new the idea to obtain a higher education mining college in the village of Zeya, technologies and innovations that can diploma in geology in order to further close to the Pokrovskiy mine to train future be used at all stages of mine development, my career.
such initiatives have always employees for skilled positions within the from geological exploration and the been encouraged.
the college offers students the feasibility stage through to extraction studying as a distance-learning student chance to study for one of 42 mining and production.
Petropavlovsks current I became a shift foreman at Pokrovskiy, and engineering professions.
experts are encouraged to cascade their then a technician geologist, and later a knowledge and experience throughout Also, the Group has developed and geologist at the Pioneer mine.
My future the Group to ensure the culture of implemented a targeted curriculum in one plans involve becoming a site foreman innovation endures.
of the universities in Blagoveshchensk in and working at our new projects, such order to train specialists for work at the as Malomir.
Aleksandr Bashev Geologist regis 12 Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Investing in the future Support provided for nurseries, primary schools and secondary schools Provision of funds, books and equipment Giving back to local communities Fostering expertise Supporting education World-class research laboratories 150 students stud ying each year and centres at Pokrovskiy Mining College A long-term policy Development of new innovations Over 200 students studying on of investment in regional and technology Group supported courses education at every level, resulted in a constant supply Cascading current expertise to Internships and work placements of highly-quali ed specialists future generations of specialists off ered to local students for the Groups operations which has supported the Groups rapid growth and provided a signi cant contribution to the development of the local community.
Employee training programmes External and internal seminars and courses 63 employees studying for higher education diplomas For further details on 44 Sustainability Petropavlovsk PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13
