Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Gold and iron ore market performance Indexed gold price Gold Iron ore 1,500 1,300 1,100 900 700 Iron ore 500 Gold 300 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source: Bloomberg, rebased to Gold as at 1 July 2005.
Iron Ore: China Iron Ore fines cfr main China port $ tonne.
Investment demand is not easily and the global nature of the production However, crude steel production and iron measurable because a significant portion and hence reliance on bulk shipping to ore demand have stagnated or fallen in of this is transacted in the over-the-counter reach market has resulted in a pricing the major industrialised regions since 2000. market.
However, there is no doubt that structure for iron ore that makes Pricing and recent trends identifiable investment demand in gold has assumptions regarding the value-in-use the vast majority of iron ore is sold under increased considerably in recent years.
Since 2003, investment has represented the iron ore business is closely linked to the normal structure of these contracts the strongest source of growth in demand, the steel industry, with over 98% of mined is that volumes are established within an with an increase in value terms of around iron ore being used as direct feedstock for agreed range on a multi-year basis and 412% by the end of 2008.
the key driver of the iron prices are renegotiated annually according identifiable investment demand reached ore market, therefore, is the outlook for to prevailing market conditions.
there US$30.0 billion in 2008 compared to global steel production specifically, blast is also a significant, and now rapidly US$14.6 billion in 2007, an increase furnace basic oxygen furnace BF BOF expanding, spot market.
Price negotiations of just over 100%.
for annual contracts typically take place in two stages.
The first of these involves Supply discussions between the major iron ore Iron ore China, Australia and Brazil are the leading producers and representative groups Background producers of iron ore with china producing of European, Japanese and Chinese steel Iron ore is the main raw material in the approximately 37% of the worlds supply, mills.
these negotiations are primarily steelmaking process and is measured in while Brazil and Australia contributed about the proposed overall percentage hundreds of dollars per tonne.
Chinese ore tends to change in the price of very widely-traded estimated that the global resource base be particularly low-grade with an average ores such as Hamersley lump and fines, exceeds 800 billion tonnes of crude ore, iron content of approximately 33%, but Itabira Carajs fines, and or vale pellets.
containing more than 230 billion tonnes of production volume has nevertheless It was recently announced that an iron.
Price hikes which peaked in 2008 almost trebled since 2000.
The iron ore agreement reached between certain major relate to the reduced short-term availability industry itself is highly consolidated, and iron-ore producers and Japanese and of easily accessible, high-grade ore, rather production is dominated by the Big Three chinese mills may mark the end of the old than any absolute medium-term or companies: vale of Brazil, rio Tinto and system of price negotiations and annual long-term scarcity.
BHP Billiton, which operate predominantly contracts for iron ore. in australia and have about two-thirds of Iron exists in the ore in oxide form usually spot prices are essentially driven by global seaborne trade.
Haematite short-term market fundamentals: supply, deposits are mined predominantly in south Demand demand and stock levels.
they are America especially Brazil, Australia and When evaluating the demand for iron ore, typically volatile, and will rise very sharply parts of Asia.
Magnetite ores, such as the main focus is on China.
It is the growth in the event of, for example, a shortage those of Petropavlovsk, tend to be of lower in chinese steel production that is largely or a perceived shortage and fall sharply grade, and require beneficiation to improve responsible for the acceleration in iron as well, as was seen in late 2008 and their iron content.
chinese ore production ore demand.
the majority of new steel the first half of 2009. consists largely of low-grade magnetite.
production capacity has been in the form Source: World Gold Council, CrU 2009 of new integrated steelworks that are Iron ore is marketed in various forms based on iron ore.
Overall china has but most commonly as lump, fines, grown its share of consumption in concentrate, pellets and nuggets.
The the last few years to well over 50%.
variability in the technical specifications Petropavlovsk PLC annual report & accounts 2009 11
