Smart technology is making life safer, Creating smart chips simpler and more enjoyable for all.
through a smart Low cost mobile computers connect network of companies teachers and students to each other and to online resources, no matter how remote.
Wireless technology Smart technology can make life safer, such as mobile broadband allows fast connections and can connect teachers simpler and more enjoyable for all, but to students in real time.
only if the chip has been well designed and if the product, or service, it goes into has been thoughtfully developed with the end-customer in mind.
Designing a smart chip to go into a smart-meter, a more intelligent washing machine or mobile computer requires the collaboration of many specialist companies and teams of engineers from many disciplines.
ARM sits at the nexus of a series of industry collaborations and Farmers and fishermen can helps these teams work effectively and use their mobile phones to efficiently together.
check prices at local markets to see where they will get the ARM partners with hundreds of best price for their produce.
semiconductor designers and manufacturers to more effectively create the next generation computer chip: we Low cost and partner with software and tools vendors lightweight heart so efficient and optimised software can be monitors can be written for that chip: and we partner with Smarter cars are safer worn by the patient with driver assistance content designers and distributors so that and alert emergency for lane detection, video, music, games and information can services when steering in difficult anything goes wrong.
bring the final product to life.
driving conditions and A doctor, working anti-lock brakes, and It is more efficient for a network of remotely, can with intelligent synchronized specialist companies to work closely recommend the best airbags to help prevent course of action together, rather than for one company harm to passengers in without delay.
to try to do it all themselves, as long as case of an accident.
the entire team is developing solutions Smarter engines in cars around a common foundation.
In our are also more fuel industry that common foundation is the efficient, especially ARM architecture.
The semiconductor with the introduction of multi-fuel engines.
industry has been disaggregating for nearly 40 years from inefficient monolithic corporations to networks that form and reform to meet the challenges of a fast changing and highly innovative industry.
Synchronised airbag Lane detection Hybrid car ARMs continuing collaboration to develop higher performance and lower power devices In last years annual report we described This collaboration with ARM further how ARM was working with IBM, enhances our focus and leadership Chartered and Samsung to develop in delivering manufacturing and technology around the 32 28nm technology excellence at the leading process node.
This highly complementary its Partners have further extended partnership leverages ARMs the partnership with the addition of architectural leadership along with GLOBALFOUNDRIES and leading EDA GLOBALFOUNDRIES advanced companies, to develop optimised chips technology and production capabilities on a 28nm manufacturing process.
to enable the deployment of 28nm SoC designs with exceptional performance The companies have announced that for next-generation consumer devices.
ARM will develop a comprehensive Doug Grose, chief executive officer, physical IP 28nm design platform GLOBALFOUNDRIES for the GLOBALFOUNDRIES 28nm High-K Metal Gate manufacturing process.
This agreement includes the creation of optimised ARM processor implementations that will enable the companies mutual customers to build chips both for high-performance and low-power implementations.
With a robust infrastructure and industry ecosystem we are the stewards of maintaining long-term sustainability in the embedded marketplace.
