How ARM makes money ARM is the worlds leading semiconductor intellectual property IP supplier.
The technology we design was at the heart of many of the digital electronic products sold in 2009.
ARM has an innovative business model.
Instead of bearing the costs associated with manufacturing, we license our technology to a network of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor manufacturers and OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers.
These Partners incorporate our designs alongside their own technology to create smart, low energy chips suitable for modern electronic devices.
Why semiconductor companies use How ARM creates value ARM technology ARM aims to recover its costs from the future licence revenues of each new technology.
This would leave the ARM designs technology that once would have been majority of royalties as profits.
Over the medium term, developed by the R&D teams inside each company in the we expect royalties to grow faster than licence revenues.
ARM has demonstrated that it is cheaper to license technology than to continue in-house ARM expects dollar revenues to typically grow faster development.
The design of an ARM processor requires a than the semiconductor industry large amount of R&D investment and expertise.
We estimate that every semiconductor company would need In the medium term, we expect that revenues will grow to spend between $50 million and $150 million every year faster than costs, making ARM increasingly profitable to reproduce what ARM does.
This represents an additional and leading to margin expansion.
In the medium term, $20 billion of annual cost for the industry.
By designing ARM expects normalised operating margins to expand.
once and licensing many times, ARM spreads the R&D costs over the whole industry and thereby helps make In the medium term, ARM expects normalised digital electronics cheaper.
operating margins to expand As our customers are the worlds largest semiconductor Technologies that are suitable for the manufacturers, their regular royalty payments have ARM business model become a highly reliable cash flow.
Given our broad base of Partners and end-markets, ARM is not overly ARMs technology licensing business started in the early reliant on any one company or consumer product for 1990s with the development of the first ARM processor.
its future profits and cash.
The processor is like the brain of the chip, it is where the ARMs business model is strongly cash generative.
In 2009 software runs which controls the functionality of the chip we generated 86 million of cash.
Since 2004, ARM has and the product that the chip is in.
returned over 360 million of cash to shareholders In most years ARM introduces new processor designs for through a mixture of share buybacks and dividends.
In recent years ARM has also started developing other technologies that are suitable for a licensing and royalty business model, such as graphics processors and physical IP components.
How ARM makes money The companies who adopt ARM technology pay an 2-3 years 3-4 years 20 years up-front licence fee to gain access to a design.
They ARM research Partner chip Multiple applications incorporate the ARM technology into their chip a process and development development development and sales that often takes 3-4 years.
When the chip starts to ship ARM receives a royalty on every chip that uses the design.
Typically our royalty is based on the price of the chip.
Licence Royalty Each ARM processor design is suitable for a wide range Cost incurred revenue revenue $ $ of end applications and so can be reused in different chip families addressing unique markets.
Each new chip family generates a new stream of royalties.
An ARM processor design may be used in many different chips and ship for over 20 years.
