Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Our strategy for growth and how we measure progress ARMs strategy is for our technology to gain share in long-term structural growth markets, such as mobile phones, consumer electronics and embedded digital devices.
ARM growth drivers We focus on three drivers to deliver long-term and 2.
Increasing ARM value per device sustainable revenue growth: A s consumer products become smarter they may contain multiple ARM-based chips, each chip providing 1.
Increase penetration in markets where ARM technology additional royalty revenue.
A typical smartphone is particularly applicable: to gain a royalty from chips can contain three ARM-based chips, and as chips in in each consumer product.
a smartphone tend to be more expensive than in a 2.
Increase the value to ARM per product sold: to maximise basic phone, ARM can receive 6-7 times more royalty the number of ARM-based chips in every device.
per smartphone compared to a voice-only phone.
Extending ARMs business model to additional types other consumer electronics products become smarter of technology, generating multiple royalty streams and more connected they may also contain more ARMfrom each chip.
Extending the business model to additional ARM has achieved a high penetration in some markets technologies such as mobile handsets.
We believe that the same level To generate multiple royalty streams associated of market penetration is possible in other application with each chip ARM has introduced a series of new areas as ARM technology becomes increasingly technologies which we believe can command an applicable to a broader range of end-markets such upfront licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
Over the as digital TVs, hard disk drives and microcontrollers.
last few years ARM has introduced two major new It took ARM ten years to gain a high penetration in technologies that fit this criteria.
mobile phones and although the rate at which each Physical IP provides the building blocks for developing market will adopt ARM technology may be different, system-on-chip implementations prior to manufacturing.
the underlying market dynamics are similar.
See Media processors provide specialist on-chip components page 4 for an explanation of the how the entire for accelerating 3D graphics and efficiently encoding ecosystem benefits as ARM gains market share.
Key performance indicators KPIs ARMs progress against our strategy can therefore be measured against the following KPIs: Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties See page 5 Growing the number of ARM-based chips See page 6 Increasing the value that ARM gets for every mobile handset sold See page 6 Increasing ARMs penetration in target end-markets See page 7 Developing new technology to generate additional royalty streams See page 7 Growing normalised operating margin, EPS, cash generation and dividends See page 8 Our progress against these KPIs can be seen in the section How we performed this year on page 5.
For details on our corporate responsibility KPIs, please refer to pages 37 to 39.
