How Dell is reducing energy consumption without compromising the PC experience The Dell Latitude Z600 comes with Using an ARM-based chip in a a Latitude ON button.
Pressing this Dell Latitude Z600 enables business button enables the Dell Latitude ON professionals to be always-on and communication module which gives always-connected to the internet instant access to e-mail, calendars and and to their critical information, to the internet without booting or waking without needing to worry about the your entire laptop lowering power battery running out during the day.
consumption and extending battery life.
Robert Thompson, Senior Product Manager, Dell The communication module is based on a dedicated low-voltage ARM processor Texas Instruments OMAP 3430 processor that runs a slimmed-down version of a Linux OS Operating System.
It allows you to boot into a contained OS environment to give you always-on access to the internet, over WiFi, and critical business information while using a fraction of the battery power your laptop uses when its running a full OS.
Essentially, you can quickly access all the information youre used to accessing on a smartphone using the larger screen and keyboard that your laptop provides.
Dell Latitude ON provides: Instant access about two seconds to business information such as e-mail, calendar, contacts and Internet browser.
MS Exchange integration or POP e-mail access.
Always-on and always-connected the module continues to run regardless of the state of the main OS.
Ability to view MS Office and.
Long battery life about 17 hours on a six-cell battery.
Smart technology is making life safer, simpler and more enjoyable for all.
Low cost mobile computers connect teachers and students to each other and to online resources, no matter how remote.
Wireless technology such as mobile broadband allows fast connections and can connect teachers to students in real time.
Farmers and fishermen can use their mobile phones to check prices at local markets to see where they will get the best price for their produce.
Low cost and lightweight heart monitors can be Smarter cars are safer worn by the patient with driver assistance and alert emergency for lane detection, services when steering in difficult anything goes wrong.
driving conditions and A doctor, working anti-lock brakes, and remotely, can with intelligent synchronized recommend the best airbags to help prevent course of action harm to passengers in without delay.
Smarter engines in cars are also more fuel efficient, especially with the introduction of multi-fuel engines.
Synchronised airbag Lane detection Hybrid car
