Board of directors Doug Dunn, OBE, age 65 Warren East age 48 Tudor Brown age 51 Mike Muller age 51 Chairman Chief Executive Officer President Chief Technology Officer Doug Dunn joined the board as Warren East joined ARM Tudor Brown was one of Mike Muller was one of the an independent non-executive in 1994 to set up ARMs the founders of ARM.
Before director in December 1998 consulting business.
He was joining the Company, he joining the Company, he and became non-executive Vice President, Business was at Acorn Computers was responsible for hardware Chairman on 1 October 2006.
Operations from February where he worked on the strategy and the development He was previously President 1998.
In October 2000 he was ARM R&D programme.
He of portable products at Acorn and Chief Executive Officer appointed to the board as joined the board in 2001 and Computers.
He was previously of ASM Lithography Holding Chief Operating Officer and in became President in 2008 with at Orbis Computers.
At ARM N. V. until his retirement in October 2001 was appointed responsibility for developing he was VP, Marketing from December 2004.
Before joining Chief Executive Officer.
Before high-level relationships 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business ASML, he was Chairman and joining ARM he was with with industry partners and Development until October Chief Executive Officer of the Texas Instruments.
He is a governmental agencies and 2000 when he was appointed Consumer Electronics Division chartered engineer, Fellow of for regional development.
of Royal Philips Electronics N. V. the Institution of Engineering His previous roles include In October 2001, he was and a member of the board.
and Technology, Fellow Engineering Director and appointed to the board.
He was previously Managing of the Royal Academy of Chief Technology Officer, EVP Director of the Semiconductor Engineering and a Companion Global Development and Simon Segars age 42 divisions of Plessey and GEC of the Chartered Management Chief Operating Officer.
He is EVP and General Manager and held several engineering Institute.
He is a non-executive a Fellow of the Institution of Physical IP Division and management positions director of Reciva Limited Engineering and Technology Simon Segars joined the board at Motorola.
He was awarded and a non-executive director and is a non-executive director in January 2005 and was an OBE in 1992.
He is a and Chairman of the Audit of ANT plc.
He currently sits appointed EVP and General non-executive director of ST Committee of fide La Rue plc.
on the UK Government China Manager of the Physical IP Microelectronics N. V. Soitec Task Force.
S. A. TomTom N. V. and B E Tim Score age 49 He has previously been EVP, Semiconductor Industries N. V. Chief Financial Officer Mike Inglis age 50 Engineering, EVP, Worldwide EVP and General Manager Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Sales and latterly EVP, Business Processor Division Financial Officer and director Development.
Before joining Mike Inglis joined ARM in 2002 in early 1991 and has worked ARM, he was Finance Director and became EVP and General on many of the ARM CPU of Rebus Group Limited.
Manager of the Processor products since then.
He led He was previously Group Division in July 2008, having the development of the ARM7 Finance Director of William previously been EVP, Sales and and ARM9 Thumb families.
Baird plc, Group Controller at Marketing.
Before joining ARM, He holds a number of patents LucasVarity plc and Group he worked in management in the field of embedded CPU Financial Controller at BTR plc.
consultancy with A. T. Kearney architectures.
He is a nonHe is a non-executive director and held a number of senior executive director of Plastic and Chairman of the Audit operational and marketing Logic Limited.
Committee of National Express positions at Motorola, Texas Group plc.
Instruments, Fairchild and BIS Macintosh and gained his initial industrial experience with GEC Telecommunications.
He is a chartered engineer and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
He is a non-executive director of Pace plc.
26 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Lucio Lanza age 65 Kathleen ODonovan age 52 John Scarisbrick age 57 Young Sohn age 54 Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director director director director Lucio Lanza joined ARM as Kathleen ODonovan joined John Scarisbrick joined the Young Sohn joined the a non-executive director in the board in December board in August 2001.
She is a non-executive CEO of CSR plc from June extensive experience in the ARMs acquisition of Artisan.
director and was Chairman 2004 until October 2007 and semiconductor industry both He was a director of Artisan of the Audit Committee until previously worked for 25 years in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
from 1996, becoming October 2009 of Prudential at Texas Instruments TI in He is CEO of Inphi Corporation, Chairman in 1997.
He is plc, a non-executive director a variety of roles including a director of Cymer, Inc. currently Managing Director and Chairman of the Audit as Senior Vice President and an adviser to Panorama of Lanza techVentures, an Committee of Trinity Mirror plc responsible for TIs $5 billion Capital, a Silicon Valley early stage venture capital and Chairman of the Invensys ASP chip business, President based venture capital firm.
and investment firm, which he Pension Scheme.
Previously of TI Europe and leader of the Previously he was President founded in January 2001.
He is she was a non-executive team that created TIs DSP of the semiconductor products also on the board of directors of director and Chairman of the business in Houston, Texas.
group at Agilent Technology, PDF Solutions, Inc. a provider Audit Committees of the Court Before joining TI, he worked in Inc. and Chairman of Oak of technologies to improve of the Bank of England, Great electronics systems design roles Technology, Inc.
Prior to that, semiconductor manufacturing Portland Estates plc, EMI Group at Rank Radio International he was President of the hard yields.
He holds a doctorate plc and a non-executive and Marconi Space and drive business of Quantum in electronic engineering director of O2 plc.
Prior to that, Defence Systems in the UK.
He Corporation and, before from Politecnico of Milano.
she was Chief Financial Officer is a non-executive director of that, Director of Marketing He retires by rotation at the of BTR plc and Invensys plc Intrinsity, Inc. and Innovative at Intel Corporation.
AGM on 14 May 2010 and and before that she was a Silicon, Inc. and executive has decided not to stand partner at Ernst & Young.
Chairman of Netronome for re-election.
Systems, Inc. Philip Rowley age 57 Independent non-executive Jeremy Scudamore age 62 director Senior independent director Jeremy Scudamore joined Philip Rowley joined the board in January 2005.
He was Chairman and CEO of was Chief Executive Officer AOL Europe, the interactive of Avecia Group formerly the specialty chemicals services, web brands, internet technologies and e-commerce business of Zeneca until provider until February 2007.
April 2006 and previously He is a qualified chartered held senior management positions both in the UK and accountant and was Group Finance Director of Kingfisher overseas with Zeneca and plc from 1998 to 2000 and ICI.
He has been a board Deputy CEO and CFO of member of the Chemical Industries Association and was the General Merchandise Division until 2001.
Prior to Chairman of Englands North that, his roles included EVP West Science Council.
He was and Chief Financial Officer also a member of the DTIs of EMI Music Worldwide.
Innovation and Growth Team for the Chemical Industry and He is a non-executive director of HMV Group plc, Chairman of the Innovation Misys plc and Promethean Team.
He is non-executive World plc and Chairman Chairman of Boardlink Group Limited and a non-executive of Livestation Limited.
director of Oxford Catalysts Group plc and Plant Health Care plc.
