An external perspective ARM as an investment the five-year view.
It makes sense for investors to take a long-term phones in particular, are a key example of The worlds number view of ARM.
One of the reasons why the such growth.
company has been outperforming the semiARMs intellectual property already feaone supplier of conductor industry for so many years, and has tures in the majority of mobile phones in the semiconductor IP proven so resilient through the downtown of world.
The explosion of smartphones has 2008 and 2009, is that it has been steadily provided a turbo-boost to ARMs revenues, gaining share in long-term structural growth because these devices contain more ARMStrong track record markets.
A quarterly view of the business simbased chips than traditional handsets.
Indeed, of returning cash to ply wont show this nor will it provide the ARM generates six or seven times more revtrue picture regarding the slow-burn process enue from a typical smartphone than from a shareholders of designing a processor, licensing it to leadstandard voice-only handset.
This growth in ing semiconductor companies and, years later, smartphones looks set to continue for many Taking on the Intel receiving royalty revenues as chips move into years to come.
The second attraction for investors is the challenge So what is the outlook for ARM between fact that ARM has been steadily gaining share today and 2014?
Lets look at the fundamenin markets beyond mobile phones a trend tals of the business from an investors perthat is highly likely to persist, thanks to the spective, and then examine the opportunities ongoing proliferation of increasingly sophistiand challenges facing the company during the cated devices such as digital TVs, cars, white Scott Payton is a freelance business years ahead.
He is former editor of Real IR, the pan-European ARMs opportunity The ARM model investor relations magazine, and Number of chips shipped billions ARM enables companies across the semiconBusiness Voice, the Confederation 2009 15bn ductor industry to outsource the complex and 2010 18bn of British Industrys magazine.
He 2011 21bn costly process of designing processors.
The has written this article to provide 2012 23bn company provides a  an independent view on ARM as 2013 25bn design of a processor, spreading the cost of rean investment opportunity.
2014 29bn search and development across the companies As consumer electronics get smarter and more pervasive who license the design.
This was a revolutionso ARMs opportunity grows.
ARMs success has been built on making this idea accepted and Third, ARM is the incumbent of the indusattractive across the semiconductor industry, try and faces little, if any, direct competition.
initially for chips going into mobile phones ARMs main indirect competitors are its own and, increasingly, for chips going into other customers, because some continue to use end-markets.
their own proprietary processor designs rather than license ARM technology.
However, as The ARM investment case end-markets require ever-more sophisticated ARM has a number of key attractions from an chips, the costs of maintaining a proprietary investors perspective.
design continue to increase, making ARM First, it enjoys exposure to a range of martechnology ever-more attractive.
kets characterised by long-term and ongoing Now the fourth attraction: ARM continues structural growth.
Mobile phones in general, to increase its profitability.
Operating margins and multi-function, internet-enabled smartcurrently stand at around 30% with most ana- 17 An external perspective continued Despite the potential hurdles, analysts are overwhelmingly upbeat about the five-year outlook for ARM.
After all, the company is the worlds number-one provider of semiconductor IP.
It has strong positions in a number of long-term structural growth markets, including smartphones, microcontrollers and consumer electronics.
ARMs business model remains unique and free from direct competition.
Profits are growing, while cash is returning to shareholders.
lysts expecting them to reach 40% over the including wireless internet access and data reports in Sterling.
The Dollar Sterling exmedium term.
ARM has an opportunity to capture change rate therefore has a material impact on Fifth, ARM has a strong track record of increasing royalties for these peripheral chips earnings and profitability.
This is certainly an returning cash to shareholders.
This record is in every mobile computer.
The market for irritation, from some investors point of view, not expected to be interrupted as the company main applications processors in mobile comas it can rob the business of some of its growth focuses on key areas of growth, as explained puters is then the next nut for ARM to crack.
This is an area featuring a formidable comThere are other potential hazards, too.
What Finally, the last but not least attraction: the petitor in the form of Intel.
if smartphones do not proliferate as fast as excompanys management team is deeply expeExpansion of ARMs physical intellectual pected, or if ARM does not grow market share rienced and widely respected.
As one analyst property division PIPD is the final major in consumer electronics and embedded prodcovering ARM simply puts it: people trust opportunity for the business.
What if the physical IP market fails to the management team to continue to deliver licensing its processor technology since 1994, take off?
What if there is another global slump into the future.
and the company believes that the licensing in consumer demand for electronic products?
of physical IP the design of logic libraries, Opportunities memory compilers and other technologies Fundamentally bright outlook There are three clear opportunities facing is the next big trend.
It will take a few more Despite the potential hurdles, analysts are ARM over the next five years, which are set to years before it becomes clear how strong this overwhelmingly upbeat about the five-year improve the firms market share and increase trend will be but the potential is widely seen outlook for ARM.
After all, the company is its profitability.
the worlds number-one provider of semiconOpportunity number one is the continued ductor IP.
It has strong positions in a number growth of the smartphone market.
Every Challenges of long-term structural growth markets, insmartphone contains multiple ARM-based Ask analysts to name the biggest mediumcluding smartphones, microcontrollers and chips, and as smartphones become more adterm risk facing ARM, and most will respond consumer electronics.
ARMs business model vanced, the number of ARM-based chips per with one word: Intel.
The worlds largest remains unique and free from direct competiphone increases.
In 2009 the average mobile chip company has made it clear that it wants tion.
Profits are growing, while cash is being phone handset contained an average of 2.1 to make inroads into the ARM-based moreturned to shareholders.
ARM-based chips, up from 1.9 in 2008.
This bile device market, and the launch of its new ARM has been outperforming its secfigure is set to rise further, as more handsets Medfield chip, due in 2011, will give it a tor for a number of years, and the direction incorporate more complex functionality.
springboard for putting these aspirations into of that sector clearly plays to the businesss Making deeper inroads into other digital practice.
technology markets is the second key mediARM responds to this threat by highlightum-term opportunity.
As a wide range of diging that while ARM technology is already ital devices, from TV set-top boxes to smart moving into Intels mobile computing heartenergy meters, become more sophisticated, land, Intel technology is not yet ready to move ARM, having honed its expertise at producinto ARMs low-power, high-performance ing smart, low-power processors, enjoys a smartphone heartland.
Yet Intel will undoubtwide range of other growth opportunities.
edly try to push into ARMs territory during The mobile computing market compristhe years ahead and the days of ARMs ing devices such as netbooks, electronic books 100% penetration of  and tablets is an adjacent market with rich in smartphones are clearly numbered.
Alongside the main appliCurrency movement is a shorter term pocations processor, these devices also contain tential risk.
Ninety five per cent of ARMs multiple chips controlling a range of functions revenues are generated in dollars, yet the firm 18
