Remuneration report continued Deferred Annual Bonus Plan There is a strong variable element to executive directors remuneration and a bonus of up to a maximum of 125% of base salary after application of a personal performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 can be earned through the DAB if all targets are met.
The personal performance multiplier depends on the achievement of pre-determined objectives which are reviewed and approved by the committee each year.
These include key strategic objectives related to each directors role and responsibilities including compliance with the Management Charter which is designed to foster employee development, understanding of the overall vision and strategy of the Group and good governance.
There is compulsory deferral into shares of 50% of the bonus earned and an opportunity to earn an equity match of up to 2:1, subject to achievement of an EPS performance condition.
Deferred shares and any matching shares earned will normally be transferred three years from the date of award.
Payment of the bonus for 2009 was subject to the achievement of US dollar revenue and normalised operating profit targets set by the remuneration committee, which were directly related to the Groups financial results.
The bonuses payable to executive directors in respect of performance during 2009 are shown later in this report and are in the range 83.3% to 84.7% of base salary, 50% of which was compulsorily deferred into shares.
For 2009, 30% of bonus was dependent on achieving a US dollar revenue target and 70% on achieving a normalised operating profit target.
This change from the 50% revenue and 50% normalised operating profit targets that had applied in earlier years reflected the committees view that predicting and controlling revenue during the recession would be very difficult and maximising profitability through cost control was vital to achieve the best possible financial performance for the Group.
Shares representing the deferred element of bonus earned in 2006 and awarded in 2007 vested in February 2010, with no matching shares being triggered.
For 2010, the committee has decided that 50% of bonus will be dependent on achieving a US dollar revenue target and 50% on achieving a normalised operating profit target, which the committee believes have been set at challenging but motivational levels.
At EPS growth equal to the increase in the Consumer Prices Index CPI plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 when EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% per annum.
These targets are directly related to the Groups financial results and encourage achievement of the Groups short-term financial goals, while the deferral and matching elements encourage a longer term view of the success of the Group.
The deferred shares can be forfeited in the event of gross misconduct and the matching shares are subject to forfeiture for bad leavers.
Long Term Incentive Plan Annual grants to executive directors are normally made at a level equivalent to base salary.
Conditional awards vest to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a three-year performance period from 1 January of the year of award and no re-testing thereafter is possible.
The performance conditions are based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups each testing half of the shares comprised in the award.
The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors FTSE 350 and the second comprises predominantly US companies within the hi tech sector FTSE Global Technology Index.
The performance criteria provide the link to performance against an appropriate peer group.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the relevant half of the shares comprised in the conditional award if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% of the relevant half of the shares will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis.
Additional shares may vest to cover dividends paid by the Company during the performance period.
No shares will be received for below-median performance.
In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Former share option schemes The option grants to executive directors made up to 2006 remain available for exercise and vesting in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
They are subject to performance conditions based on real EPS growth and vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
Any options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board are not subject to performance conditions.
The performance conditions relating to these remaining option grants are set out in more detail in the table later in this report.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
For executive directors, the normal rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary plus additional amounts in accordance with the Groups salary sacrifice scheme.
Full details of Group contributions are set out in the directors emoluments table later in this report.
