Demand for smarter chips is creating an opportunity for ARMs technology To meet the demand for smarter chips in increasing their use of ARM technology.
consumer electronics ARM customers are As digital TVs become internet connected using our technology in a broadening range they are benefiting from the ecosystem of of end-markets.
ARM will introduce three software already available for ARM.
Our new processors in 2010 and increasing microcontroller market share is growing, with end-market demand, combined with the many leading microcontroller manufacturers latest ARM designs, has resulted in a strong announcing new ARM-based product lines.
ARM is investing in additional technologies Mobile phones continue to be a driver of that are suitable for our business model, of an ARMs royalty revenues as smartphones upfront licence fee and an on-going royalty become smarter and more capable, and stream, such as physical IP and graphics will become a greater proportion of overall processors.
During 2010 ARM will continue handset shipments.
Even voice-only to develop the roadmap of physical IP phones are becoming smarter as increased components.
We expect leading customers connectivity and multimedia capability to start commercial production of 32nm chips becomes standard across all phones.
ARM will also start licensing our new graphics processor and we expect increasing An increasing proportion of ARM-based shipments of chips based on ARMs graphics chips are going into non-mobile devices.
technology in smartphones, digital TVs and Already leading HDD manufacturers other consumer electronic applications.
have ARM-based product lines and are Review of 2009 and our view of 2014 ARM is winning share in markets that are forecast to grow over the next five years.
The table below shows ARMs estimated market share in 2009 and analysts forecasts of how these markets will develop over the next five years.
Other chips that ARM could be in are included in networking, disk drives and microcontrollers.
Others includes Bluetooth headsets, gaming consoles, DVD players, etc.
