The future opportunity Semiconductor companies bought these licences to use ARM Opportunity pipeline 2009 licence by target marke technology in a broad range of end-markets.
t Opportunity pipeline for 2010 has a broad range of quality companies looking to start new Mobile 30 ARM-based programmes.
Embedded 25 There is always a risk of licensing deferral in any Enterprise 17 87 quarter, but this risk is returning to normal levels.
Home 11 Multiple 4 New products and new markets ARM is introducing at least three new processors The strong licensing in 2009 was driven by: in 2010, taking ARM technology into more new applications.
ARM customers continuing to invest in R&D programme.
Consumer electronics continue to require smarter ARM introducing three new processor products, taking ARM into new markets.
chips, making ARM technology applicable to more end-markets.
ARM mainstream products being deployed to a broadening range of applications.
More smartphones and smarter smartphones Mobile computing As the mix shift in the mobile phone market increasingly Mobile computing is a rapidly growing market with moves towards the smartphone, and as smartphones new products being introduced such as netbooks, e-books, get smarter, then ARMs revenue per phone will continue smartbooks and internet tablets.
Semiconductor manufacturers have announced chips based on ARM technology for this new market.
Basic phones are getting smarter too Software developers have launched operating systems, High volume phones are also becoming more capable browsers and plug-ins bringing a PC-class experience to they will become more connected with Bluetooth and ARM-based chips.
For example, Adobe has announced Flash WiFi and their functionality will improve with better 10 support for ARM technology and Mozilla have announced cameras and multimedia.
the Firefox browser for ARM.
Smartphones are evolving into mobile computers Computer manufacturers have developed advanced handsets and mobile computers utilising ARM technology including Dell, More ARM-based mobile computers will be announced Google, Lenovo, HP and Sharp.
in 2010 and will be always-on, always-connected so you can take the internet with you everywhere.
Hard disk drives Digital TV and set-top box All leading HDD manufacturers have ARM-based ARM-based chips are used to decode the TV % product lines, and are looking to use ARM technology signal, improve image quality, and to display 30 in their future designs.
The hard disk drive could and control the electronic programme guide.
market share be the next market where ARM achieves a market High-end digital TVs are also using ARM in 2009 technology to connect to the internet and penetration of over 80%.
Up from 25% in 2008 to become a PC in your living room.
Digital TVs As digital TVs become internet-connected, they can Microcontrollers adopt the ARM architecture to take advantage of the Consumers are demanding more efficient ecosystem of software already available for ARM.
% and more capable electronic products from Microcontrollers 6 white goods to cars to heating and lighting.
market share ARM is well positioned to be the universal ARMs market share gains look set to continue in 2009 platform used in smart chips for all these with many leading microcontroller manufacturers Up from 4% in 2008 electronic products.
announcing new ARM-based product lines.
Number of Base of licences Physical IP licences in 2009 by end of 2009 Royalties in 2009 During 2010 ARM will continue to develop the roadmap Physical IP 8 68 Twelve of the top 20 of 32 28nm physical IP components.
We expect lead semiconductor companies customers to manufacture their first chips at 32nm in used physical IP in their 2010, with royalties starting in 2011. chips driving royalties through the foundries.
Video and graphics IP Video and 13 26 Four leading During 2010 ARM will introduce new multimedia graphics IP semiconductor technology for licensing and we expect more manufacturers paid semiconductor companies to start shipping chips royalties on ARM video based on ARMs video and graphics technology into and graphics IP.
smartphones, mobile computers, digital TVs and other Physical IP licences refer only to royalty generating platform licences.
