ARM technology can be found in Technology connecting many of the consumer electronics products that connect us to the us to each other internet and to each other.
ARM technology can be found in the majority Smart-meters connect to the of the worlds phones.
A typical smartphone electricity grid, telling you exactly ARM technology can be found in many contains about three ARM-based chips and how much electricity you are using of the consumer electronics products the smarter the phone the more ARM technology and how much money this is it is likely to contain.
that connect us to the internet and to costing you, demonstrating the each other.
benefit of turning off appliances and so saving money.
Smartphones and mobile computers can contain several high-performance ARM-based chips, connecting them 4 wirelessly to the internet, and also running internet browsers and e-mail tools.
As ARM-based chips are inherently low-power, this enables you to be always-on and always-connected.
ARM technology can already be found in digital TVs, decoding the TV signal and displaying the electronic programme Low cost, mobile computers are guide.
As TVs increasingly become always-on and always-connected, giving everyone access to the internet connected ARM is proving to internet and to online content Your internet connected be suitable technology as the ARM such as music, games and movies.
smartphone allows you ecosystem offers all the required browsers, to keep abreast of your operating systems and plug-ins.
social network and Digital TVs are favourite blogs, and to Our homes can digitally connect to the keep your friends and already mixing internet to make them more energy followers up to date internet content, efficient: smart-meters are linking into with your news and such as stock-picks smart-grids to keep track of electricity stories, and your pictures and weather usage in the home and to co-ordinate reports, pictureand videos.
the use of our energy when the electricity in-picture with is at its cheapest.
The next step is The diversity and innovation of the for full internet companies using ARM-based technologies browsing on your can be demonstrated as they continually TV increasing the invent new ways to connect us together opportunity for ARM.
using a broad range of product categories and form factors.
Many other digital products in the home are connecting to the internet such as gaming consoles, photo frames, cameras, set-top boxes and media centres.
These provide several opportunities for ARM-based chips in the applications processor and in the network connection.
How STMicroelectronics is enabling the digital TV to bring full internet into our living rooms The TV in todays digital home displays Building our next-generation HDTV content received from the main consumer devices around the hightelevision networks.
Some high-end TVs performance ARM architecture will are beginning to mix this content with enable us to continue to deliver bestinformation from the internet such as in-class devices for our customers.
In weather reports and stock market data.
addition, our customers now gain access High end TVs are also able to offer full to the broad ARM ecosystem of support internet browsing, navigating to any around the processors.
webpage and displaying content Philippe Lambinet, executive vice from online portals such as YouTube president, Home Entertainment and or BBC iPlayer.
Display Group, STMicroelectronics STMicroelectronics ST is the global leader Sky welcomes the collaboration between in providing chip designs for set-top ST and ARM to provide cost-effective, boxes and digital TVs, with about a 30% low-power set-top box technology.
Reducing power consumption across our ST has adopted the ARM Cortex-A9 business is a key pillar of Skys strategy processor for its next generation of chips utilising the lowest power technology in that will deliver both HDTV display and our set-top boxes is a vital element of this all the internet using PC-class operating ongoing strategy.
systems and browsers, and Adobe Roger Lambert, Engineering Director, Flash technology.
BSkyB ST will integrate the ARM Mali-400 MP Flash Player 10 is essential to deliver graphics processor into their chips to rich, compelling web content on meet the growing demand for exciting advanced consumer devices.
ST and new graphical user interfaces and the ARM are enabling the underlying needs of increasingly sophisticated hardware platform to deliver the web-based services.
full Flash experience to consumer entertainment systems.
Danny Winokur, senior director, Business Development, Platform Business Unit at Adobe iSuppli, September 2009.
Electric motors are responsible for ARM technology is making products more than half of electricity consumption.
Smarter motors use more efficient control smarter so they use resources more algorithms that can halve the energy intelligently and efficiently.
Much of the internet is run on large computers, containing hundreds of processors, hosted in server farms.
These need a huge amount of electricity to power the computers and to power the air-conditioning to keep them cool.
Low-power ARM-based servers would require less energy to power the computer and much less air-conditioning.
LIFT Smart washing machines know Smart-grids communicate with the Lighting in homes and how much water and detergent smart-meters in the home, giving the offices has the second are required to clean clothes, current price of electricity.
This enables largest global energy depending on how dirty the clothes energy hungry white goods such as washing usage.
They also spin the drum more machines and dishwashers to switch on systems know where efficiently, reducing the electricity bill.
when electricity demand is low, and people are and ensure energy costs are therefore reduced.
the areas are well lit, but do not stay on when not needed, and so reduce energy use.
