Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Service agreements Executive directors have service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one years notice.
These agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis and contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, nonsolicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service contract contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Simon Segars 4 January 2005 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion is entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors During 2009, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee who is also the Senior Independent Director each received a total fee of 45,000 per annum and the other non-executive directors each received a total fee of 40,000 per annum, which were unchanged from 2008 due to the Group-wide pay freeze.
These fees were arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Groups activities during the year.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the executive directors and the term of appointment is three years.
Fees paid to non-executive directors are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
Share options exercised during the year by Lucio Lanza were granted prior to the Groups acquisition of Artisan.
Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys total shareholder return TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE All-World Technology Index from 31 December 2004 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was 71.0% over this period compared with 45.5% for the FTSE All-World Technology Index for the same period.
ARM total shareholder return performance from 31 December 2004 to 31 December 2009 The directors consider the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe and therefore reflects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products.
