10 Strategic Overview R Targeting sustainable and profitable growth The strength of our strategy We have also invested in a comprehensive suite of web Strategy is its clarity and simplicity.
diagnostic tools that enable us to understand whether our We are a high service websites are meeting the requirements of our customers and distribution company focused on the faster growing, to modify our proposition accordingly.
Diagnostic tools also more profitable segments of EDE, the web and give us a sense of our place in the market.
Our team of developing international markets, all while continuing technical specialists analyse the data to identify if there is a to serve profitable MRO segments.
This strategy has technology or specic product that is missing from our portfolio, delivered growth over the last two years, such that if our pricing is appropriate, or if there is a technical issue on Premier Farnell has consistently outperformed our any of our websites.
This increased knowledge is used to core markets.
improve the exibility of our proposition, ensuring that we are able to stay ahead of our customers and our competition.
When we developed our strategy we made certain market It also means that our portfolio of over 400,000 products is assumptions that have become even more relevant as the right mix to meet the diverse needs of our customers.
the global economy has slowed.
EDE has outperformed MRO, the web continues to attract new customers and Our strategy was developed in order to nd higher growth our developing international markets are our fastest growing.
opportunities with our markets, and although we primarily With over two million active customers in 156 industries, discuss it in relation to our Marketing and Distribution Division we service a diverse range of end markets, some of which which accounts for 90% of our revenue, we have seen our are continuing to grow strongly, while others are more Industrial Products Division IPD adopt some of its elements.
affected by the global economic slowdown.
The businesses in our IPD Division remain highly profitable and are leaders in their respective markets.
They have Despite the variety of geographies and end markets we struggled as a result of the downturn in the North American serve, our customers around the world have broadly similar economy, however they continue to diversify not only their needs.
They want a distribution partner who will provide a product offering but also their end markets.
These businesses service they value: they want a partner in the truest sense of have historically been focused on their domestic North the word.
They are looking for a company that understands American markets: they are now expanding internationally and and anticipates their needs, a company that provides have also introduced new products to attract new customers.
services and solutions that assist them from the initial stages of design through to the final product, whilst offering a variety The clarity of our strategy, combined with our daily execution of channels from which they can buy.
This includes websites of each element, ensures that all employees understand their that provide detailed information and a variety of self-service role in delivering our continued transformation.
Distributors who provide all of this, will delight their customers and encourage loyalty from them.
We are a service business and our talented employees are one of our primary assets.
Ensuring that we have the We now have 27 local language websites and right people supporting growth through the right roles in receive more than 30 million monthly page views the right regions is critical.
We continuously evaluate our structure to ensure that it is appropriate to support growth.
Our employees are highly engaged and in a recent all-employee survey, more than 90% of respondents said that they understand the strategy and believe that it is appropriate to strengthen our organisation for the future.
We have undertaken some reshaping activities that enable our transition to a web business, aligning our support systems with our rich web environment, and ensuring that our sales and call centre activities are appropriate as we transition to the higher growth EDE customer segment.
In support of our transformation, we have invested in our proposition, strengthening our offering to better meet the needs of our customers.
Over the last two years we have more than doubled the number of EDE products in our portfolio and have added nearly 125 in-house technical specialists to support the unique needs of EDE customers.
Laurence Bain We now have 27 local language websites and receive more Chief Operating Officer than 30 million monthly page views of our global websites.
11 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Group Overview R Premier Farnell is organised into two divisions Marketing and Distribution Division R www.
com Sales Operating profit Total Underlying 09: 727.1m 09: 82.8m 09: 85.7m www www.
com Our Marketing and Distribution Division operates predominantly in the high service, time critical sector of the electronic components market, focused particularly on the needs of design engineers and purchasing professionals globally.
The Groups multi-channel approach offers quality data and information on products and services with a supplier line card http: cn.
com and stock prole developed to anticipate and meet customers needs.
Our depth of stock from a wide variety of suppliers ensures that the important needs of the maintenance and repair customer sector www.
com Countries of operation Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Holland, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Poland, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, www.
co. uk Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States.
co. uk Industrial Products Division R Sales Operating profit www.
com Our Industrial Products Division comprises businesses supplying high-performance products to specialist industrial markets.
Though predominantly in North America, these businesses have expanded their www.
com sales efforts into international markets through export, and continue their expansion into new customer sectors in domestic markets.
Countries of operation Australia, Canada, France, Germany, United Kingdom, United States.
Notes: 1 Based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates and for like periods.
2 Growth at constant exchange rates.
