58 Board of Directors R & Ofcers 59 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Sir Peter Gershon, CBE, FREng, Harriet Green, BA Hons Aged 47 Mark Whiteling, M. Comm Hons Chairman, Aged 62 Appointed as Chief Executive officer on Aged 46 Appointed as Non-Executive Chairman 3 April 2006.
Currently a member of the Appointed as Chief Financial officer on 1 March 2005.
Currently Chairman of Board of Directors of Emerson Electric 1 September 2006.
Formerly Group GHG Limited General Healthcare Group and Company and a founder member of Finance Director of Communisis plc, Vertex Group Limited and a Non-Executive Peaceworks charity.
Previously ran volume the pan-European print management direct Director and Chairman-elect of Tate & Lyle distribution businesses in four continents, mail group.
Prior to joining Communisis in PLC.
He is also a member of the Advisory including Asia Pacic for Arrow Electronics November 2004, he was Group Finance Board of the UK Defence Academy and of as well as having functional responsibility Director of Tibbett & Britten plc, the Court and Council of Imperial College.
for worldwide marketing, suppliers and a FTSE 250 logistics company.
Formerly Chief Executive of the Ofce of strategy.
Prior to joining Arrow in 1994 was Government Commerce, Managing Director Managing Director of the Macro Group, Laurence Bain, CA Aged 55 of Marconi Electronic Systems, a member part of Diploma plc.
Appointed Chief Operating officer in of the GEC plc Board and Chairman of July 2002 and joined the Board as an Symbian Limited.
Steven Webb, LLB Solicitor Aged 46 Executive Director on 1 July 2003.
Appointed as Company Secretary and Previously Vice President and Director General Counsel in December 2000. of Operations for Motorola in Europe, Previously Company Secretary and General Middle East and Africa.
Counsel of Kelda Group plc and Company Secretary of Kalon Group plc.
Dennis Millard, CA SA, MBA Aged 60 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in William B Korb, B. S. I. E. AMP Aged 69 September 2007 and as Senior Independent Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Director in June 2008.
Formerly President Finance Director of Cookson Group plc.
and CEO of Gilbarco Incorporated.
Non-Executive Chairman of Smiths News Non-Executive Director of Cambrex Plc, Non-Executive Director of Debenhams Corporation.
plc and Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Xchanging Paul Withers, MA Aged 52 plc.
Chairman of the Board of Trustees Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Holy Cross Childrens Trust charity.
Formerly Main Board Director of BPB plc.
Non-Executive Andrew Dougal, BAcc, CA Aged 57 Director of Hyder Consulting plc.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2006.
Formerly Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the international building materials company and previously Finance Director of Hanson, the diversied industrial group.
Non-Executive Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, Creston Plc and, formerly, of BPB plc.
Committees Nominations Committee Membership at March 2009 Sir Peter Gershon Chairman William Korb Audit Committee Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Chairman Andrew Dougal Remuneration Committee William Korb Paul Withers Chairman Paul Withers Andrew Dougal William Korb Dennis Millard
