12 Strategic focus R profitable growth through focusing on EDEs globally Electronic Design Engineers The world in which we live is changing.
Electronic design engineers are facing mounting pressure to design products very quickly that work more effortlessly than ever before and that not only look good, but are also safe for everyday use and respect the environment, as technology now permeates all aspects of our lives.
Strategic goals for 2009 Achievements in 2009 Priorities for 2010 Work with customers to ensure that We have continued to invest in Launch our eCommunity site to the R R R we have the products and solutions innovation.
During the year we EDE population around the world, they need, when they need them.
have designed and developed continually enhancing the offering an eCommunity that brings EDEs and adapting the model to reect Add additional stocked product R together to network, collaborate the needs and wants of the broad to enhance our EDE proposition and create designs.
and add 500,000 products to our has been tested by customers on demand line during our three Work with suppliers to ensure we R throughout the year and is expected year target period.
have the latest, most specialised to be launched during FY2010.
products that our customers Continue deep investment in primary, R During the year we added 54,000 demand for their designs.
R secondary and tertiary engineering new EDE products.
Of these, over support for our customers.
Ensure efficient and cost effective R 5,000 were new to market EDE stocking processes are in place, Develop an environmentally friendly products, in high demand by our R making the most of Premier Farnells product offering, and engage with EDE customers as they look to utilise global footprint to leverage our customers and suppliers to nd new the newest, most energy efficient purchasing power around the world.
ways to reduce our environmental technology in their innovations.
Invest further to ensure that we R Through continued investment in R have the in-house expertise to our EDE proposition, we have provide dedicated support to our opened two Global Technology EDE customers.
Centres, one in Chengdu, China and one in Bangalore, India.
These Develop a line of innovative tools R Centres give our customers direct for EDE customers that enables a access to our in-house EDE and seamless environment of design simulation and prototype building.
Available 24 hours a day, customers can contact Review and monitor developments R us for assistance with a product or in environmental regulations coming questions related to their design.
We must monitor our Investment in Innovation is ongoing stock levels, providing timely R and during the year we invested information to our customers 2 million into our own research regarding the implications for them and development of services and and adapting our stocking levels systems to support EDEs.
accordingly to ensure that we remain a market leader in this area.
13 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Virtual events Environmental leadership Technology First R Premier Farnell hosted its own virtual Leveraging the knowledge of our Technology First is a quarterly technical tradeshows.
These events that bring in-house environmental and legislative journal offering insight into fast growing together suppliers, customers and experts, Premier Farnell is the industrys EDE markets from customers, suppliers industry experts to discuss relevant trusted source for this information.
These journals topics, products and solutions, is yet Providing solutions and answering bring together everything an EDE another innovative offering to attract questions for customers around this customer might want to know on a EDE customers to our proposition.
increasingly important area is just specic topic.
one part of our unique value for EDE customers.
Consumers are placing increasingly high demands on EDEs Our customers are designers and they want to design, not as they have come to expect more of new designs than spend a lot of time nding their components and conducting ever before.
They want aesthetically pleasing products that research, though this is an increasingly important part of their are fast, have huge capacities for storage, perform more role.
The speed of search on our websites is best in class.
functions than ever before, are smaller than their previous We are continually evolving our search function to represent version, have become more affordable and are safe for their accurately how our customers conduct their search for use, as well as the environment.
Our websites include extensive libraries of product information, covering technical, We know the demands our customers face, and we environmental and legislative issues.
This information is understand what they need from their high service distributor.
compiled in-house, by engineers for engineers and then EDE customers around the world have broadly similar needs translated for our local language websites and adapted for regardless of their location in the world.
They want: local requirements, ensuring that our customers the world Every item for their design from one supplier with a broad over receive the same access to this valuable information.
product range: We have also developed an innovative line of tools to help customers design with greater ease.
A fast and user friendly website: As well as simplicity of search and selection, customers Accurate and accessible product information: also need a supply chain in which they can have confidence.
The knowledge that the product they have received As an authorised distributor of more than 2,500 suppliers is authentic: and throughout the world, the integrity of our supply chain is of the utmost importance.
Our sourcing policies seek to ensure Their order delivered correctly and quickly.
that product leaving our distribution facilities is genuine Our range of stocked EDE products is constantly evolving.
and has not been altered or tampered with from the point Our product teams work with our in-house technical of production.
specialists, EDE customers and suppliers to ensure that we Time is of the essence for our EDE customers, particularly have the specialised products needed for new innovations.
as the global economy slows.
Designs are time sensitive When a product is no longer demanded by customers we and design cycles are becoming shorter.
In reaction to the have the processes in place to move it out of our inventory, slowing economy, we anticipate that many customers will efficiently and cost effectively.
During the year we added leapfrog into new generations of design in order to remain more than 5,000 brand new to market products.
These competitive when markets recalibrate.
products are highly valuable to our customers for their designs, but it is also crucial to our suppliers that we seed EDE customers depend on us to get their products to their the market with their new products.
Our high service desks on the afternoon of order or the following morning.
proposition is valuable to our suppliers as well as our Our high service model ensures that 99.6% of orders are customers: without a vehicle such as ours their components delivered either the same day or the next day from ten might never make it onto large scale production lines.
distribution facilities around the world.
