24 Business Review R Strategy We completed a strategic review over two years ago In two years we have successfully transformed many and identied activities and opportunities that we key parts of our business with the three simple themes would target for profitable growth.
In todays economic of EDE, web and internationalisation giving clear direction climate that may seem like history, but in the global to our actions.
economic downturn it has become clear that the Our strategy is one of profitable growth through focus on our strategy developed in 2006 is extremely relevant and EDE customer base, the ongoing utilisation and development leaves us well placed both to defend margin and to of our web proposition and the internationalisation of our capitalise on available growth.
Our strategy is reviewed business model as we expand into new higher growth on a quarterly basis by the Premier Farnell Leadership international territories.
The 2009 reviews illustrated the importance of agility and rapid execution to realise the All of this is increasingly relevant in a time of recession.
focus on EDE, particularly EDE in emerging geographies and key vertical segments, continues to offer growth.
The web provides efficiencies and real speed to market in 2009 alone we launched five new language sites to expand our model.
Focus on EDE Central to the strategy is Electronic Design Engineering an attractive market which offers above average gross margin and growth rates, values our proposition, and where customers have the potential to buy more lines per order than other parts of the market.
The global EDE market consists of customers involved in the design of electronic products and components and is estimated at circa 15 billion worldwide.
EDE customers have similar service requirements wherever they are located around the world these include a broad product offering, technical support and reliable and prompt delivery.
Electronics continue to pervade all aspects of our lives, driven by aesthetics, size, functionality, legislation and the environment.
Even in recession, key industries like medical and biometric security are forecast to grow, and while volume production in areas like motor and consumer electronics may decline, the number of design projects is forecast to be less affected than production volume.
While our intelligence leads us to believe that MRO will decline over the coming months we still believe that EDE will grow and is driven by key geographies and segments.
That, combined with our low market share and strong customer acquisition programmes offer potential topline growth.
In our key emerging territories we saw strong growth driven by these customer acquisition programmes see internationalising our model on page 25.
25 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 An important part of the proposition is the product range Internationalising our model that we offer to EDEs.
At the beginning of our strategy, we Despite this period of deep recession, China, India and announced that we intended to add approximately 70,000 much of Eastern Europe are among the few areas still forecast products to our current stocked range with a further 50,000 to achieve overall market growth, with China in particular lines to be available on demand.
We have made good already committed to major government investment to progress this year and have added over 90,000 new products maintain economic growth.
before deletions into stock and have made further available The Chinese market for small volume electronics is estimated on an as needed basis.
at over 1 billion annually and growing at a rate faster than We have set as a goal for this part of our strategy that 50% Chinese GDP.
This market is highly fragmented, offering a of MDD revenue will come from EDE customers by the end significant growth opportunity and potential for us to achieve of financial year 2010 and remain committed to that goal market leadership with the growing number of design even in the current climate.
engineers graduating from Chinese universities every year and engaging in design activities in their local industries.
Enhance our web and eCommerce platforms Our Premier Electronics business in China continues to make This part of our strategy is intended to provide design good progress after its launching in 2007.
The business is engineers and purchasing professionals with a fast and focused on the local design community supported by local efficient channel to access the holistic solutions that they inventory and next day delivery available in over 110 Chinese seek combining access to products, information and cities.
Growth in 2009 was 39.4%, driven by strong customer technical support.
The web is increasingly the preferred channel for EDE The expansion of the European Union and the highly customers and as well as offering them an efficient solution, fragmented nature of these new markets also offer growth it is how they interact with the broader technical community.
Our programme of expansion into Eastern It also offers Premier Farnell a lower cost to serve channel Europe has progressed strongly and showed growth of compared with more traditional sales channels.
We clearly 68.4% with a clear focus on customer acquisition, EDE and recognise the importance of this in the current climate and the web five local language websites were launched in the have programmes in place to enhance our web further and region during the year with a number of additional planned.
accelerate its adoption by our customers.
Our aim is to We also successfully completed the acquisition of the end provide excellence in e-com solutions that dont just benefit user business of our former distributor in Poland, Hungary us in terms of efficiency, but also offer our customers unique and the Czech Republic Microdis further driving growth benets.
In 2008, two key initiatives were launched online in the region.
iBuy offering purchase controls to procurement professionals, In January 2008, we successfully completed the acquisition of and eQuotes offering US customers the chance to request the high service distribution business of Hynetic Electronics in and pick up quotations via the website.
This business, which had sold the Farnell product range This part of our strategy is a key element of our multi-channel for over six years as a distributor, has ofces in nine locations end to end customer experience plan, which includes both across the country, its own localised Farnell website and a our EDE and our MRO customer base.
local catalogue for the Indian market.
We set a goal for this part of the strategy that 50%70% In 2009, 17.6% of our MDD revenue came from developing of our MDD revenue will be via eCommerce by the end of markets, making good progress towards our stated goal financial year 2010.
We are now achieving 32.0% of sales of 20%.
via eCommerce channels and some regions are already trading over 65%.
R 26 Business Review continued R Strategy Initiatives to drive operational and cash efficiencies In order to finance our strategic transformation, the Group As part of the strategic review in October 2006, we completed committed to reducing working capital as a percentage of a thorough analysis of our business processes.
While this sales by 2 percentage points, a saving which would pay confirmed the robustness of our existing processes, we for the required incremental investment.
We still have one identied areas where efficiency improvements could be more year in our initial three year strategy, and thus far have made and we have been implementing those improvements seen working capital as a percentage of sales, increase from over the last two years.
27.1% in 2007 to 28.4% due to the slowdown experienced in the fourth quarter of 2009.
We remain confident that The web continues to delight customers and has resulted the processes we have put in place will ensure we meet in tangible benets across the organisation.
two years we anticipate that we will be able to reduce our operating expenses as a percentage of sales by Actions which have reduced our working capital before 2 percentage points approximately 16 million.
During the the impact of currency movements include, more exible year the web reached a critical mass which allowed us to arrangements with certain suppliers, purchasing products re-evaluate the structure of certain operations and remove for our global distribution centres in the lowest cost regions, costs.
The annualised benefit of these reshaping actions and improved web efficiencies.
executed in the fourth quarter was 12 million, 4 million of which related directly to our transition to the web.
Key performance indicators The Groups strategic transformation is intended to deliver Continued rationalisation of operations will be ongoing as increased shareholder value over the period through the we continue with our plans to achieve an overall operating successful execution of the elements described throughout expense reduction of approximately 16 million.
Subsequent this annual report EDE, the web and internationalisation.
to year end we took further action to expand our customer As the economic climate has changed, the appropriateness reach, touch more customers more frequently and further of our strategy has been reinforced.
All areas of our strategic realise the benets of our significant investments in the web focus continue to grow and create new and exciting and our unique multi-channel sales approach.
The Key Performance Indicators which were America, we are restructuring our branch network and in set out when the strategy was announced in 2007 are Europe we are rationalising our structure to leverage our discussed in more detail on pages 8 and 9 of this report.
Detailed customer transition plans are They comprise both strategic and financial metrics.
in place to ensure that customers will continue to experience The strategic metrics are those that are used to track our excellence from our multi-channel proposition, including success in executing the building blocks of our strategy expanded contact centres and a rich web environment.
and the financial metrics measure the outcomes of those Combined these actions will reduce operating expenses as strategies in conjunction with the successful performance a percentage of sales by 2 percentage points approximately management of our core business prior to the execution of 16 million and once the benets are fully realised, the Group the strategy.
is targeting operating margin as a percentage of sales to rise to 12.0%.
27 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic and financial measures: Carbon footprint Sales per day growth focus on the faster growing We are aware that all businesses have an impact on the EDE segment and operating in the faster growing environment in which they operate.
As part of our strategy, regions of the world should deliver revenue growth we are seeking both to limit the effect of the strategy on the in the 6%8% range.
environment and to work actively to reduce the impact of the Groups existing business.
The actions being taken to Sales via eCommerce channels % this content rich and address our carbon footprint are outlined in our Corporate lower cost to serve channel is expected to become the Social Responsibility Report commencing on page 45. primary channel for customers around the world, with 50%70% of orders placed via eCommerce channels.
Sales from developing markets % developing markets are continuing to grow and produce good opportunities, with a target of 20% of revenue from these international and developing markets, the Group is committed to continue investing in the areas where we see growth.
Gross margin % gross margin stability is a key platform to deliver operational gearing.
EDE margins are higher as are web margins and these work together to mitigate the impact of lower margins in the emerging and historic MRO markets.
Return on sales % is a function of both the gross margin stability and the success of efficiency programmes as well as reecting the multi-channel cost to serve impact of our strategy.
Return on net operating assets % reects the effective and efficient investment of funds and is important when evaluating the success of our strategic initiatives.
Free cash flow to revenue % this is a combined measure of both the improved profitability and cash ow targets of the strategy.
We have set as a goal that we will achieve a ratio of 6%.
Employee engagement as a service business, our results are achieved through our people.
Part of our investments in the strategy have been in ensuring that we have the right people in our business and that our employees are actively engaged.
Working capital as a % of sales this is a measure of the success of our cash efficiency programmes.
