16 Strategic focus R profitable growth through internationalising our business model Globalisation through localisation Under-penetrated international markets continue to provide new and exciting opportunities for growth.
Our location approach to business tailors our offering to meet the specic needs of our individual international markets, while continuing to leverage our global network of expertise and best practices.
Strategic goals for 2009 Achievements in 2009 Priorities for 2010 Continue to strengthen our Ongoing investment in China has Invest in the necessary products, R R R alignment with the needs of EDE resulted in more than 50% of sales in tools and services that support customers in China through new EDE product and continued growth the needs of customers in higher product and by constantly improving of web sales from our Mandarin and growth sectors.
Ensure that we continue to R Support our operations in India We launched our India website, evaluate our segmentation work R R and ensure that they have the catalogue and opened new to appropriately target the faster wherewithal requirement to provide branches to support the growing growing sectors of our markets, high service solutions to the local EDE market.
particularly in line with government engineering community.
investment programmes recently Continued development of our R announced in China and the Evaluate growth opportunities in Eastern European operations has R United States.
global markets with high growth been enhanced by a small, but potential, particularly focusing strategically important acquisition.
Continue to invest in our EDE R on Eastern Europe.
We have also launched further local inventory position for the India language websites across Eastern market, ensuring customers across Support our American Industrial R Europe, including Bulgaria, Estonia, this fast growing region have access Products Division as it continues Latvia, Lithuania and Romania.
to our high service, next day delivery.
By embracing internationalisation, Fully integrate our acquisition in R R our Industrial Products Division Eastern Europe to ensure a smooth received 13% of their revenue from transition for customers to our high international markets in 2009. service proposition.
Continue to identify new international R markets for our Industrial Products Division.
17 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 China India Eastern Europe R Electronic design engineering remains Farnell India has now been in operation Industrialisation as a result of inclusion critically important to China.
With nine branches across in the European Union continues to business in China, Premier Electronics, the country and a local website and drive significant development and continues to enhance its proposition to catalogue, new customer acquisition investment in electronics across ensure customers are delighted by the continues at pace.
The acquisition of a service they receive.
With five branches to demonstrate exciting opportunities part of the assets and trading rights and more than 20,000 products for growth.
of a small distributor will increase our available next day to over 110 cities, footprint and attract even more new growth in this core market continues.
customers in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
More than two years ago when we evaluated our markets growing demand for our products and services.
Our multifor strong growth opportunities, we chose to invest in the channel approach permeates all of our operations, no matter developing markets of China, India and Eastern Europe.
Premier Farnell continues to be a truly multiNow, as the world in which we live changes rapidly, these channel distributor with innovative solutions for local markets.
markets have become even more relevant to our future Eastern Europe has performed even better than we first growth.
We have momentum behind us and a strong expected.
We have continued to nd growth in economies platform from which we can continue to expand our where we would not have expected to nd such robust footprint and take advantage of our market position.
strength and are adapting our offering accordingly, launching In China we have continued to expand and attract local language websites and creating the tools we need new customers every day.
We have an industry leading to attract customers in these markets.
EDE customers management team in the region who understand the market in Eastern Europe, as with all of our emerging markets, and our opportunities within it.
We now deliver next day to design product for local consumption.
As Eastern Europe more than 110 cities across the country, touching customers continues to develop and invest in infrastructure projects, in a wide variety of segments who design for both export there continues to be strong demand from local high service and local consumption.
We have noticed that the slowing distributors.
Opportunities vary across the region as differing economy has changed the Chinese commercial environment, economies are focused on differing areas of development offering new opportunities for Premier Farnell.
The Chinese enabling us to take advantage of the broad range of products market remains predominantly EDE, however there is situated in our distribution facility in Lige, Belgium.
From evidence that the country is beginning to see the emergence Lige we are able to support all of Eastern Europe with next of an MRO market.
We will continue to support EDE day delivery on over 400,000 products available through our customers with our broad product offering, content rich 11 local language websites.
websites in both Mandarin and English, and our high service, Towards the end of the year, we strengthened our East but we will also adapt our offering to ensure that we can European proposition even further through the acquisition of support areas that are growing.
If that means increasing part of the assets and trading rights of the Microdis Holdings our support for highly profitable and fast growing MRO group.
This acquisition provides increased customer reach in customers then we will support them as we do in all other the Polish, Hungarian and Czech markets.
Our business in India is small but growing in line with the vast opportunities that exist in the market.
India has a large EDE population, with 500 PhD and 200,000 engineers graduating from universities every year.
In one year we have accomplished a lot: our new management team is in place and driving our strategy in the local market with good results, we have a dedicated Indian website with local content and local prices, our local catalogue is also generating new leads, and we have added an additional sales ofce to support 18 Business Review R Development, performance and position of the Group Customers are looking for a breadth and depth of product, superior logistics and high quality, reliable and timely product data and information.
They also want access to a wide selection of leading suppliers and technologies from a company which works to ensure the integrity of its supply chain, which provides the most accurate, updated product information available, as well as reliable legislative and environmental information and which offers same or next day delivery.
Only 20% of the market is served by Premier Farnell and the other large integrated global distributors that are fully able to meet these needs, leaving 80% of the market served by a variety of small and medium regional competitors.
Our unique value proposition is well placed to continue capturing market share.
This Business Review is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and is framed around the principles and guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published in the UK by the Accounting Standards Board.
Its purpose is to provide information which is significant to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and to include the Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by the Group to monitor this development, performance and position.
Additionally, the Business Review is intended to highlight trends, where identiable, in factors which affect the development, performance and position of the Group.
