14 Strategic focus R profitable growth through web development and the multi-channel approach Speed, search and living in a web world The web is no longer a basic tool: it constantly evolves to change the way we think, the way we work and the way we use and access information.
We continue to invest in our websites and adapt our capabilities to reect the changing world in which we live.
Strategic goals for 2009 Achievements in 2009 Priorities for 2010 Gain a first hand insight into Our newly appointed Chief Launch our eCommunity site for R R R customer needs and experiences, Innovation officer works with our EDEs globally.
integrating solutions from their dedicated customer experience Develop innovative design tools to R feedback.
team to ensure that we have the assist small and medium design systems and solutions to meet Support our Knowledge Centres rms with their efficiency.
in India and investigate options for Continue to make investments in R Knowledge Centres in other We have opened two Global R our search engine marketing and emerging markets.
Technology Centres during the search engine optimisation in order year led by our newly appointed Enhance the web tools available to to attract new customers to our R Head of Technology Marketing and EDEs on our websites, ensuring they high service proposition.
One in Bangalore, have the most relevant information in India and one in Chengdu, China Expand the launch of our various R a timely manner and access to an to provide high quality technical innovative, self-service web tools online community of colleagues.
support and services to our EDE to our global websites, ensuring our Continue to improve search engine customers around the world.
global customers have access to R marketing in the US market in the same tools irrespective of where We have continued to add new and R order to propel the level of growth they are in the world.
innovative tools to meet the needs in web sales.
of our EDE customers, including eQuotes, an online quoting tool, and iBuy, an eProcurement tool for small and medium sized customers.
During the year we undertook R development of an eCommunity which has undergone customer testing and is expected to be launched in early 2010.
The eCommunity will give EDEs access to their global colleagues, suppliers and experts on a variety of topics.
Search Engine Marketing has R improved throughout the year, driving our 23.5% increase in web sales.
15 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Innovative eTools One touch order processing eCommunity R New innovations are continuously under The beauty of the web is the speed The development of an EDE development ensuring that our web at which information is processed.
environment is rich, user friendly and One Touch Processing allows orders EDEs are natural collaborators: efficient.
eTools like our Multi-Channel to undergo automated processing, they share information and rely on Order History, iBuy and eQuotes have improving our service by cutting down their colleagues around the world for all been launched in the year, attracting the time it takes to get the order picked support and advice.
Our eCommunity new customers and converting existing and packed, and reducing errors.
will bring EDEs together in a forum customers to the web.
Customers are delighted by our high dedicated to their unique needs.
The web is the preferred channel by EDE customers around customers, giving them exibility over their purchasing the world, as long as it is in their local language, has a fast procedures.
We have also been testing our eCommunity with search, rich content and has tools that make their jobs easier.
customers, developing new tools and ways of web working.
With more than 30 million page views per month, we continue The eCommunity will be launched early in our new financial to invest in best in class websites and tools to meet customers year and will bring together EDEs from around the world, evolving needs.
creating opportunities for networking, collaboration, advice and providing even more tools, to make it an environment With 27 local language, local content websites, we are able where they can work on a daily basis.
to communicate with our customers in the language that they prefer.
Our websites are intelligent and will allow a customer The web has not only changed the way that our customers to switch from English to their native tongue if they choose to work, but it has also given us improved access to our do so.
We have also worked with our technicians to ensure customers in their natural setting.
Web diagnostic tools allow that our search capabilities are market leading.
Engineers us an unprecedented understanding of whether our websites have specic ways of thinking and searching, and using the are meeting the requirements of our customers.
Our team of intelligence we have gained from our in-house technical analysts receives data from our global websites which they specialists and our web diagnostic tools we have continued review and distil and then make recommendations regarding to upgrade our search function, which now provides a faster our offering, pricing and capabilities, all enhancing the and more comprehensive search than some of the most customer experience.
This knowledge has ensured that we recognised web businesses in the world.
remain leaders in the web space and that any enhancements we make to our websites have an immediate payback.
In China and India we have dedicated teams of specialists, located in our very own Global Technology Centres, creating The web has also improved the exibility of our systems.
content for our global websites.
Up to three gigabytes of Gone are the days when web orders had to be processed information is available on each of our more than 400,000 after receipt.
One touch processing and more efficient products: this proprietary information is developed with operations mean that web orders are now sent directly to our customers in mind.
We include detailed product the distribution facility where they are picked, packed and specications, relevant legislative and environmental shipped to customers.
With automated processing we are information, and three-dimensional images of the product.
able to reshape our organisation, freeing up available resources to support the areas where we continue to see growth.
We have also developed industry leading innovations to meet our customers needs.
During the year we launched multi-channel order history which shows a customers history with Premier Farnell, no matter which channel they have previously used: eQuotes, an online quoting tool that provides fast and accurate quotes and easy access to converting the quote into a purchase order: iBuy, an eProcurement solution for our small and medium-sized
