03 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Questions & Answers R with Harriet Green, CEO In 2006 Premier Farnell How do you feel about the strategy The journey began a journey to transform Q after two years?
Is it still the right one continues the business based on a for the changing markets?
clear and consistent strategy for profitable growth a strategy that comes to life throughout this report.
When we conducted our strategic review in A 2006 the 150 strong team that worked on it As the Group concludes the second year of its three were drawn from right across the business people with an year transformation plan, the results continue to show in-depth knowledge of our customers needs: people who real progress as suppliers, customers and employees really understand high service distribution.
This knowledge respond positively to the enhanced proposition.
and experience of what our customers require led to the Rigorous implementation of the strategy has continued creation of a strategy that comprehends the needs of our throughout the past year and plans have been target audience.
The strength of our strategy is in its simplicity accelerated to respond to the market conditions and and the clear levels of understanding across the business.
further drive the pace of the transformation.
The Everyone understands our drive to deliver profitable growth strategy has proven resilient even in tougher market through focusing on the needs of the global Electronic conditions, and has seen the Group outperform industry Design Engineering EDE community, driving business to performance indicators.
Through the positive, yet the web, internationalising our business model and consistent action of driving the same strategy, at pace, maintaining our strong support to the Maintenance, Premier Farnell continues to see growth opportunity.
Repair and Operations MRO segment.
Innovation in all aspects of the business continues to be a constant theme, much in evidence.
The world has changed signicantly in the time since we began the implementation of our strategy, however I still feel Harriet Green, CEO of Premier Farnell, and the architect that after two years our strategy is the right one for the future and driver of the strategic plan talks here about a year built on the solid foundation of last years strong financial of transformation and updates the story so far.
performance, our focus has been consistent.
Unlike many businesses we have not had to change course mid-way through the year.
Our employees are clear on the priorities and focus for the business clear on what we must deliver, and their part in our success.
We pulse our customers and suppliers very carefully and constantly in so many different ways, through web analytics, surveys and one to one interaction.
We listen to the voice of our customers very carefully and are constantly looking for ways to enhance the customer experience.
We strive to be easy to do business with, we want customers to return to buy from us again and again.
Customer feedback consistently tells us we are doing the right things and focusing in the right areas as always there is much to do.
This is a journey and were not done yet!
Suppliers continue to want to partner with us as we seed their technologies and products into the critical early design phases of the electronic engineers product design life cycle.
Harriet Green Chief Executive officer The strength of our strategy is in its simplicity and the clear levels of understanding across the business.
R 04 Our strategy has afforded us the opportunity to attract talent from within our industry and also specialists in their own eld.
Our strategy was predicated on faster growing markets and High service distribution allows customers to manage their growth in the EDE segment has continued to outperform inventory, trial the latest technology and improve their critical the MRO markets.
Latest data shows that the EDE market time to market.
Flawless execution and distribution excellence is still growing faster than the overall MRO market which has focusing on the detail and ensuring the very highest slowed from previous estimates.
Whilst there are still growth standards lay at the heart of our business.
We continue segments within the MRO arena, such as robotics, this year to invest for growth and we have not been disappointed.
has seen particularly rapid expansion in the EDE intensive China sales closed the year 39% up on last year, having elds of biomedical equipment, energy management products acquired new customers in more than 140 cities.
Our Indian and the high-brightness LED segment which have all afforded business has now completed its first full year as part of the exciting opportunities for growth.
Our best in class array Premier Farnell Group delivering sequential quarter on of suppliers whether world leaders or niche technology quarter growth, up 24% in the fourth quarter.
Eastern Europe, companies offer our design engineering customers home to our latest acquisition is up nearly 69% on the prior unparalleled access to the latest products and technologies year.
These high growth levels fuelled by the introduction of so very critical to their work.
The product offering when five new East European language websites during the year.
combined with our growing suite of design tools, technical At the outset of our three year plan we targeted 20% of our support services, expansive product information and easy total sales to come from our emerging international markets.
to use web purchasing options is compelling and I am As actual sales are rapidly approaching this target, and the confident it will continue to drive growth in this segment.
markets continue to grow at an aggressive rate and with them our opportunity we are confident of exceeding the The omnipresent nature of the web which continues to touch target we set ourselves by the end of the year.
every area of life is the preferred sales channel for increasing numbers of our customers.
Throughout the year we have In summary, I remain positive that our strategy is the right added eTools and rich content to ensure that our websites one for Premier Farnell and remains relevant for the different stay at the very forefront of our industry offering a compelling market cycles.
Growth opportunities still exist for those and exible experience to purchasing professionals and companies bold enough to take a positive approach and design engineers alike.
With year on year web growth of 24% focus on growth, innovation and excellence, as well as all of our distribution businesses have seen significant growth continuing to drive a high performance culture.
in their eCommerce sales levels.
Farnell Europe closed the year with over 51% of its business now being transacted via What is it about your strategy that Q eChannels, an upward trend we expect to continue into year excites you?
three of the strategy, as we further grow our web footprint to excite and delight more customers than ever before.
The opportunity to grow and shape our Researchers report a 93% global increase in the use of social A business as we transform to a very different networking tools since 2006 and we have taken a leadership Premier Farnell, committed to delivering our promises stance that recognises these trends, through the creation profitably through the execution of a very clear plan.
and piloting of our own online Community, which has The way our global teams have embraced the challenge of undergone thorough user testing and is ready for full launch what we must do and got behind it to deliver results by a imminently.
Whilst the web is becoming our primary channel, commitment to high performance, raising the bar of our daily and certainly the fastest growing, we continue to offer execution to a new level and striving to lead our high service customers a multi-channel experience with many different distribution space.
Achieved through the relentless pursuit of ways to access the information and products we supply.
a clear strategy in an intense performance driven environment.
Economists are now reporting slowdown in the major western Our strategy has afforded us the opportunity to attract talent markets and Japan, with the key growth markets identied from within our industry and also specialists in their own eld as India, China and much of Eastern Europe.
These are the high performers who want to be part of the future we are three markets we chose to focus on when we began our creating.
Building an organisation for the future capable of strategic journey, confident they were the right ones for consistent, sustainable, profitable growth now that really our approach.
All markets that were prepared to invest in excites me.
In 2009, the second year of our strategy, our businesses in these markets have Every year we conduct a global employee engagement continued to build on the presence already established survey and we independently benchmark our results against to rene their proposition combining local knowledge, the highest performing companies in the world in our quest product and expertise with rich local language websites and to improve and never rest on our laurels.
This year we showed catalogues and the promise of same or next day delivery year on year improvement in all key measurable areas.
which lies at the heart of our promise to customers.
05 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 As a service business our people are our strength and we hold them at the very heart of all we do.
We scored very highly for the clarity of our vision and Acting with integrity for our customers, our suppliers, each strategy right across the business we invest time and other, and all stakeholders is part of who we are and the way energy in communication, training and personal development, we do business.
Our employees helped shape the values innovation and involving our employees in the customer we espouse today and we have a culture where people are experience building a culture of shared responsibility for that encouraged to live and breathe life into them in all that they do.
The senior team are all measured on the growth Our teams value the clarity of our strategy, are clear about of our engagement score year on year.
We want to be a their part in our future and are eager to get on with it, and place that people want to work an organisation capable of have responded very well to our drive to accelerate progress.
attracting, developing and retaining great talent.
As a service organisation our people are our ultimate differentiator and as How has Premier Farnell become such are at the heart of everything that we do.
How has the team at Premier Farnell We have continued to invest in the key areas Q embraced the challenge to accelerate A of the strategy and the resources to support the pace of change?
our growing EDE customer base, such as web tools and other features unique to us, eQuotes and iBuy as examples that are In the survey 92% of respondents said they explained in more detail on page 15.
We have also made a A believed in what we are doing, and 20% said new acquisition in one of our target markets Eastern Europe.
we werent moving fast enough.
We rmly believe we will not shrink our way to success We have continued to simplify our organisation structure, and that well managed investment remains key to growth increase accountability and responsibility, and provide richer this is made possible by the strength of our overall career opportunities as we automate many processes, financial position.
driving efficiency and reducing the cost to serve.
In the year weve added over 90,000 new products to our Tools and technology automation and efficiency all underpin extensive portfolio, a critical part of the service our customers the acceleration programme.
During the fourth quarter we expect from a high service distributor, particularly as they took further steps to align our people resources more closely hold less stocks themselves.
Our efficient and improving to customer need and streamline operations, and this work supply chain ensures that 99.6% of our orders are delivered will continue as we focus our sales teams more closely on same day or next day from our network of Distribution the needs of our different customer segments.
suite of eTools has helped make these changes possible as we effectively now have one touch processing on many In addition to these strategic initiatives we are extremely of our orders, placed via the web and then processed pleased to have been able to renegotiate our borrowing through to the warehouse with minimal intervention reducing facilities, one year early a very clear indication that the the risk of human error or delay.
Internally through our eLife banks value our future growth prole and the differentiated programme which seeks to educate and support employees position we are building.
in their use and adoption of todays new technologies we We have added new franchises ranging from world leaders continue to embrace new ways of working, and develop in their eld to suppliers of the very latest niche technologies innovative communication and information sharing tools.
so critical to design engineers in their work.
This ensures our global team are well-versed in the use of the eTools that are so critical to improving customer experience.
Our online community where design engineers will collaborate, communicate and create designs is due for launch in the first As we continue to shape our business for the future we will half of the financial year 2010.
Developed during the past align our people resources where they can add the most year in conjunction with design engineers from our customers, benefit, creating virtual and global teams where it makes who have been an important part of its testing and creation, sense to do so to reduce duplication and share best this latest innovation will be a first for electronic distribution, practices.
We will also have local resource close to the as we continue to take a lead in this area and develop our customer that understands the customers needs.
As a service business our people are our strength and we hold them at the very heart of all we do.
We have a commitment to open and transparent communication, and integrity is a value that goes to the core of the organisation doing what we say we will, and building trust.
R 06 In a technology industry to stand still is to fall behind.
We continue to attract high calibre talent, capable of moving As we continue to innovate around our strategy we have our business forward and shaping and building an organisation appointed a Chief Innovation officer, who reports directly for the future, unrecognisable as the Premier Farnell of the to me, overseeing the exciting work of our web innovation last economic slowdown.
Our Industrial Products Division lab, and managing Innovation Exchange a participative has also seen new investment this year as some of its more forum for anyone in the Company to join in sharing their traditional markets have declined: the Group has pursued new ideas and evaluating others.
international opportunities and also focused on new and In a technology industry to stand still is to fall behind.
Unlike different sectors with positive results, to further strengthen our suppliers and customers, Premier Farnells innovation and grow the Division.
isnt in product but we have so much scope, particularly We continue to streamline operations, reducing headcount in a web world, to keep driving for change and improvement and cost by over 300 positions globally in the year as we in all we do.
shape our business for the future, a shape which utilises greater automation and increases usage of the lower cost Have your environmental commitments Q to serve web channel.
We remain committed to offering changed in this economic environment?
customers a multi-channel experience and continue to offer local sales support, contact centres and catalogues alongside Our environmental commitments continue our more than 30 transactional websites websites that now A stronger than ever.
Theyre part of how we receive over 30 million global page views a month.
do business and are more embedded in our culture than they ever have been.
Were continuing to drive these programmes, Most of all we continue to meet our commitments and do and the power of our commitment is exemplied in our what we said we would.
Although the market slowed our results from the Business in the Community CR Index.
quarter on quarter growth trend, prior to the fourth quarter we had delivered 13 periods of quarter on quarter growth, During the year we have launched The Premier Farnell Trust with a stable margin performance, despite the investments Agenda an approach that puts our environmental concerns we have been making.
high on our business agenda and we believe a differentiator for us we are a technology company investing in our people, The results of all this is a business that attracts new customers in the planet and in our local communities: forward thinking and continues to delight existing ones with a more efficient and innovating in a market where others are consolidating service model and a potential for a more variable cost base.
We believe we are creating a strong business for the future in any market cycle.
We are harnessing our talent for the good of the Company, for the good of our industry and the community.
Our Trust What part does innovation play at Agenda is part of who we are as an organisation part of our Q Premier Farnell?
core values and therefore something for which everyone is equally accountable.
We operate with the highest standards Innovation is central to our approach of ethics and integrity and with transparency, be it 360 degree whether supporting our customer in their feedback given to our leaders, the ethics hotline, employee A design innovations, driving process improvements and surveys or my popular Ask Harriet mailbox where employees automation, developing the next generation of web tools, can email me directly and condentially and be certain of a or responding to internal ideas and suggestions.
We also use customer feedback mechanisms or performance metrics that are communicated consistently We continue to recognise the importance of innovation in internally and externally.
Whilst this approach is challenging, business today for customers and for our employees as it adds value to the customer supplier and employee together we look for new and improved solutions to customer experience of Premier Farnell and builds upon our sense challenges and the ever changing needs of our customers.
People who work here understand Our packaging innovations continue to make a real difference responsibility, to each other, to our customers, to our suppliers to customers, and our web innovations, harnessing the and investors and to our communities and our environment.
power of web 2.0, are market-leading.
Our supply chain innovations not only bring improvement to customers but We want to encourage real trust and give everyone an also the environment as you will read on page 48 of the opportunity to make a difference, whether as a green CSR Report.
champion, an eLife champion, a contributor to the innovation exchange or as someone who makes a customer commitment.
07 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Our expanding international markets offer further opportunity for growth and we will align resources to ensure they deliver.
This approach comes from the top of the organisation and The world economy is slowing and creating uncertainty is a red thread that joins everything that we do.
which places a greater responsibility on us to motivate our employees to deliver the results we need and to continue to Within the Trust Agenda our environmental focus continues.
deliver the experience and business results our customers Taking responsibility for our impact on the environment is not and suppliers require.
Now, more than ever we need to be just a luxury for us as a high performing company.
It is intrinsic innovative and efficient, using automation to reduce our cost to our success, signicantly reducing our outgoings and to serve wherever possible and continuing to be a cash protecting the environments in which we operate.
continue to monitor our impact, and to review the success of our environmental programmes in our quarterly business The full launch of our eCommunity will be an exciting area reviews.
To ensure that we are reporting our impact in the for us in the year ahead bringing together EDEs to collaborate best way that we can, this year we have worked with experts and share whilst providing them with the information and tools in the eld to have our processes externally audited.
they need to complete their design and meet their own demanding development timelines.
We set ourselves a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 10% of the 2006 footprint that we dened.
Already we As business continues to transition to the web we will shape have cut our operating emissions to 79% of 2006, doubling our organisation to ensure we have the resource in areas our achievement against the target, and we intend to continue where it will most benefit our customers ensuring their service our investments to surpass this target even further in the experience is efficient and positive through whichever channel coming year.
Our transition plans which continue to evolve and change the business are clear for the year ahead As a sustainable company, we have embedded processes and our focus now remains on execution.
which address the ethical integrity of our suppliers, so that customers know we can source products that can be trusted.
Our expanding international markets offer further opportunity for growth and we will align resources to ensure they deliver.
We do not just take responsibility for our own impact, but we also look at ways to address the impact of our supply chain Inventory as a high service distributor is so important to and help our customers manage their impact.
Our innovative our customers even more so in these uncertain markets as peel packaging and our approach to packaging generally are many companies are responding to the global economic reducing the waste generated by our customers, and in turn slowdown by liquidating inventory.
This will result in an even this reduces their cost of doing business with us.
greater need for our high service, high stock proposition as customers must continue to meet their time sensitive needs.
The paper used for our catalogues is one of our main With a broad range of products from over 3,500 suppliers, environmental impacts.
Our successful transition to the and in a world of changing technology and new information web is naturally helping to reduce the number of catalogues our teams monitor our product portfolio to ensure we are that we print, and our public policy on paper and printing offering customers everything they need.
ensures that all of our catalogues, and this annual report use  inks and are printed onto Our multi-channel presence continues to offer customers the recycled or sustainably certied paper.
option to deal with us via the web, the contact centre, local branch ofce, or our eld sales teams, taking information The trust of our colleagues, customers and of our suppliers from the web or our latest catalogue.
Our focus in this year that we are a responsible and reliable company is critical to will be to continue to exceed customer expectation whilst our success, and we believe our Trust Agenda, underpins managing cost, and driving efficiency and automation.
who we are as a business and will encourage us to accelerate We continue to invest in the latest telephony technology to our initiatives and communicate them honestly and openly to support our contact centres and through advanced usage all of our stakeholders internally and externally.
of Optical Character Recognition OCR technology, now in its second enhancement phase, we are delivering against What plans do you have for next year?
Q We will continue to drive our strategy to deliver the We will continue to invest in line with our commitments we have made to our shareholders at the A strategy to improve our business offering end of our three year transformation plan, and drive for to customers and to constantly enhance the fundamentals growth as we transition the business.
of our business such as the supply chain and warehouse efficiency and improving packaging solutions.
