66 Directors Report R Principal activities and business review Directors A detailed review of the Groups activities and the development of its The names and biographical details of the Directors who held office business, together with an indication of likely future developments, at the date of this report appear on page 59.
John Roques and Cary the main trends and factors likely to affect future performance and Nolan retired from the Board on 17 June 2008. a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, are set In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Harriet out on pages 3 to 44.
Information about environmental matters, Green and William Korb will retire at the forthcoming Annual General employees and social and community issues appear on pages Meeting of the Company and offer themselves for re-election.
A formal evaluation process having been carried out during the The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the course of the year in respect of both of these Directors, their distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the performance continues to be effective and both continue to design, maintenance and repair sectors.
demonstrate commitment to their roles.
As described in the Business Review, the Group does not have During the financial year ended 1 February 2009 the Company significant reliance on any individual customer or supplier and provided indemnities to each of its Directors in accordance with the therefore there are no contractual or other arrangements that are provisions of the Companys Articles of Association providing for the essential to the Groups business.
indemnification of Directors out of the assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities constitute qualifying third Profit and dividends party indemnities for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and The Groups operating profit for the financial year from remain in force at the date of approval of this report.
continuing operations was 85.4 million 2008: 88.0 million.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service Excluding restructuring costs of 3.4 million 2008: nil to reshape contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the the business and transition to the web, the Groups operating profit Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 77.
The details of Directors was 88.8 million 2008: 88.0 million.
The Groups profit for the interests in the Companys shares form part of this report.
financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was 51.7 million 2008: 36.3 million.
Share Capital and Control The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.2 pence 2008: Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in 5.2 pence per ordinary share be paid on 24 June 2009 to those notes 15 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
shareholders on the register of members at the close of business The Companys authorised share capital comprises ordinary on 29 May 2009.
An interim dividend of 4.2 pence per ordinary shares of 5 pence each nominal value and cumulative convertible share was paid on 15 October 2008, making a total for the year redeemable preference shares of 1 each nominal value.
As at of 9.4 pence 2008: 9.2 pence per ordinary share.
1 February 2009, the ordinary shares and preference shares represented 82.2% and 17.8% respectively of the Companys The Premier Farnell Executive Trust holds ordinary shares in the total share capital.
Company acquired in the market in order to meet obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan or to provide similar The rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares and its employee benefits.
The trustees have waived the right to receive preference shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders dividends in respect of the ordinary shares held by the Trust.
by law, are set out in the Companys articles of association the articles, a copy of which can be obtained on request from the Share capital Company Secretary.
A summary of the rights attached to the Details of the changes in the issued, ordinary share capital of the preference shares appears in note 15 to the Consolidated Company during the year are set out in note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The articles contain certain restrictions on the transfer of ordinary At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be and preference shares and on the exercise of voting rights attached seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
to them, including where the Company has exercised its right to Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in prohibit transfer following the omission of their holder or any person 2008, but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act During the year under review the Company purchased 1,824,302 2006.
Holders of preference shares are entitled to receive notice of, of its cumulative redeemable preference shares in the market for but not attend or vote at general meetings of the Company other a total cash consideration of 23.6 million.
These shares had than in limited circumstances.
a nominal value of 1,824,302 and represented 31.6% of the cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares in issue prior Rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are set to such purchases.
All shares purchased were then cancelled.
Changes to the articles must be approved by The purchases are considered to be beneficial to the ongoing shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors powers earnings and cash flow profile of the Group.
are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the articles.
During the year, the Premier Farnell Executive Trust acquired 1,532,806 of the Companys ordinary shares for a total cash consideration of 2.9 million, in order to meet future obligations under the Premier Farnell Performance Share Plan.
67 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Directors authority to effect purchases of the Companys Employment shares on its behalf is conferred by resolution of the shareholders The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution and renewed annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
made by employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide Performance Review process is in its tenth year of operation.
There are no agreements between any Group company and any of This process has been enhanced by the inclusion of a 360 degree its employees or any Director of the Company which provide for review for all those in the Group involved in leading others and by compensation to be paid to the employee or Director for termination making the whole process available on-line.
The Group continues of employment or for loss of office as a consequence of a takeover to invest in the development of its employees and has carried of the Company, other than provisions that would apply on any out a review of leadership skills and development needs.
Specific employee development programmes are designed on The Companys multi-currency syndicate bank facilities contain the basis of these identified needs.
In addition, all employees have provisions allowing the lending banks to terminate the facilities in attended workshops covering the attributes required for high the event of a change of control.
performance and are now entitled to spend an hour every week on personal development activities.
The content available through the The trustees of the Premier Farnell Executive Trust an employee Groups on-line learning centre includes customised internal course benefit trust may vote or abstain from voting shares held in the trust material and access to a wide range of external materials delivered in any way they see fit.
in partnership with a leading business school.
A comprehensive induction module forms part of every new employees introduction Financial instruments to the Company.
A formal job grading system exists across Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives the Group to assist remuneration practices as well as career and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks development and organisational planning processes.
in respect of financial instruments is set out under the heading Treasury Operations on page 40 and in note 18 to the Consolidated There is further information on the 360 degree reviews and on Financial Statements.
development plans, as well as on the Companys other initiatives to attract, retain and motivate its employees, on page 43.
Supplier payment policy Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing structured communication programme allows factors affecting their terms and conditions under which business transactions with employment to be discussed.
All employees attended kick off their suppliers are conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in meetings at the beginning of the financial year which provided them accordance with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with the opportunity to understand their individual role in delivering with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 1 February 2009, the the Companys strategy.
A comprehensive cascade process amount the Group owed its suppliers represented 34 working days ensures that information on the Companys performance is made purchases 2008: 30 working days.
The Company is a holding available to coincide with its quarterly results announcements.
company and does not have any trade creditors.
Cyber cafes have been installed in many of the Companys locations around the world to allow access to the Groups intranet for those Product research and development who do not normally work using personal computers.
An all The Groups product research and development activities are employee engagement survey was conducted during the year, restricted to the development of new or enhanced products for providing a mechanism for detailed feedback on many aspects of Akron Brass, part of the Groups Industrial Products Division.
what it is like to work for the Company.
The survey results showed During the year Akron Brass expensed 1.6 million 2008: encouraging progress in all aspects of employee engagement and 1.3 million of such costs.
there are further details of the results of this survey on page 50.
In addition, the Group is constantly striving to develop new and During the year a wide cross-section of the workforce had the improved solutions to customer service.
The advances in our web opportunity to participate in the implementation of the Groups offering, such as eQuotes and iBuy, the development of the business strategy through participation in the Premier Farnell eCommunity allowing EDEs access to colleagues, suppliers and Leadership Council.
This forum consists of quarterly meetings at experts globally, the Global Technology Centres and the Innovation which the strategy and key issues related to its implementation are Lab all of which are detailed further in our business review and the discussed.
As well as the permanent members of the Council, each sections of this report on the web and EDEs are good examples meeting is attended by individuals invited to contribute as subject of this.
During the year the Group expensed 2.0 million 2008: matter experts or because of their high performance and potential.
Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from Charitable and political donations its European operating companies, the Groups European Works In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain Council The Premier Farnell European Forum is in its ninth year items of inventory to charitable organisations.
In addition, during of operation.
The Forum provides an arena for the exchange of the year the Group made charitable donations in cash of 58,000. relevant and appropriate information and constructive dialogue between management and employees on European issues.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities appear in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Review on The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for page 51. employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to of those who become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, gender, religion or sexual orientation.
Employees participation in the Groups performance is encouraged through the Groups UK savings-related share option scheme and by the provision of cost-effective share dealing services.
