19 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Premier Farnell Group Customers include Electronic Design Engineers EDEs, Introduction consists of two divisions: small scale production units, purchasing professionals and the Marketing and Distribution Division MDD and the maintenance and repair engineers with a wide range of Industrial Products Division IPD.
In aggregate, the MDD businesses have over two million customer contacts, attracted by a common need MDD comprises five businesses which distribute a for a broad product range, rapid and reliable delivery and wide range of electronic components, equipment and specialised value-adding services.
They place many small maintenance, repair and operations MRO products.
orders, with average order values of approximately 240 in The businesses serve commercial, industrial and North America, 100 in Europe and 120 in Asia Pacic.
public sector markets in Europe, North America and The Division stocks in excess of 400,000 different products Asia Pacic.
Together they represented 90% of sales sourced from a large number of suppliers and provides and 86% of underlying operating profit in the year customers with access to a further four million products.
Through a dedicated plan to increase the proportion of sales made to EDEs, via the web, and through internationalisation into emerging markets, the Company intends to capitalise on available market growth at the same time as driving market share gain through an enhanced EDE proposition.
The Industrial Products Division IPD comprises businesses supplying high-performance products to specialist industrial markets, predominantly in North America see page 36.
The Division accounted for 10% of sales and 14% of underlying operating profit, before head ofce costs.
Our IPD businesses have made good progress in identifying fast growing international markets and new industrial markets Mark Whiteling for its products.
Chief Financial officer The following sections cover only the MDD businesses on the basis that this Division represented 90% of sales.
The IPD businesses are covered in the relevant section of the Review of Operations.
R 20 Business Review R Markets The global electronics distribution market in which the Farnell has a strong position in many European markets and Group operates is split between high volume distributors, Newark is one of the leaders in North America.
Across the who handle the supply of large quantities of components for globe however, there remains very significant opportunities scheduled manufacturing of electronic equipment, and the for the Company to grow market share, underpinned by a high service distributors who handle the requirements of competitive advantage from its global reach to customers EDEs engaged in the design of new products and MRO and broad range of suppliers.
engineers who maintain, operate and repair the installed The other businesses within MDD, namely CPC and MCM, product base of electronic equipment.
Premier Farnell falls operate primarily on a national basis in their home markets into the second category high service distribution and UK and Ireland, and North America, respectively and are is one of just four global players operating in this space.
focused on a particular subset of the overall electronics The chart below shows the life cycle of an electronic distribution market.
design from prototyping through to the end of its useful life, Premier Farnell operates in the two circles identied.
Economic cycles The overall global electronics distribution market is MDD supplies a variety of industries in a variety of geographic approaching 200 billion, of which the high service markets.
Not only does no customer account for more than element is estimated at approximately 15 billion.
2% of sales, no supplier accounts for more than 5% of The high service market is highly fragmented, with only product.
We support a huge range of customers in over an estimated 20% in the hands of the four global players, 156 different industries.
leaving the remaining 80% served by small and medium This diversication of geography, customer segments and sized local competitors.
This presents Premier Farnell suppliers has historically limited the Groups exposure to with significant opportunities to leverage our high service regionalised economic cycles.
In the current economic proposition to win new customers and gain market share.
downturn, our exposure to the faster growing international Our model and our commitment to ongoing automation markets and our ability to target specic vertical markets has resulted in the barriers to entry being raised, and smaller ensures that the Company is well placed to nd growth.
distributors nding it more and more difficult to compete in The global electronics design market as forecast by the high service space.
Customers are looking for a wide Henderson Electronic Market Forecast will continue to grow, breadth and depth of stocked product, superior logistics and albeit at reduced rates from the 68% we have previously high quality, reliable product data and information delivered seen, as sales slow and there is increased volatility through through innovative web solutions.
They also want access the recession.
to a wide selection of leading suppliers and technologies from a company that works to ensure the integrity of its Both Newark and Farnell offer customers a very broad supply chain, provides the most accurate, updated product range of products for use in electronic equipment, information available and offers same or next day delivery.
with a strategic focus on the design part of the life cycle.
Small, local distributors are nding meeting these needs ever more challenging.
Product life cycle Manufacturer direct Volume distribution Volume distribution EDE MRO Premier Farnell Manufacturer Premier Farnell Student Prototype Small OEM Service Maintenance Repair Large OEM R&D Pilot Broad customer base Engineers Purchasing professionals Engineers 21 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 U Better products for a better planet Since the 1950s, the pervasion of electronics into everyday life has increased steadily and the aesthetics as well as the functionality of these products has become increasingly important, creating more design work.
As awareness of individual and corporate carbon footprint increases, re-design around power management has grown.
We also expect to see increased focus on re-design work to take out cost in the current climate.
Overall this means that, despite the global economic downturn, we remain confident in our EDE strategy delivering a growth rate above the overall electronics market.
The strategy, which has provided us with strong growth since its inception, is equally as relevant in recession.
The level of maintenance and repair activity varies by The proposed revision to the RoHS Restriction geography, reecting the indigenous manufacturing of Hazardous Substances Directive, so called environment, and tends to be tightly tied to the general RoHS2 and the REACH Registration, Evaluation, level of economic activity.
Authorisation and restriction of CHemicals CPC and MCM supply electrical and electronic ranges, Regulations are having a significant impact on such as audio-visual and security products, to very broad industry.
Premier Farnell provides customers with customer bases, from specialist retailers and small businesses to large organisations.
The level of general information and support to help avoid the pitfalls economic activity therefore also inuences MDDs sales of compliance.
more immediately through these businesses.
Understanding the requirements of RoHS2 and REACH can be complex, and time consuming.
The limited number of Growth in more challenging markets conferences that are available on these subjects can also be We continue to identify opportunities for growth, even as very costly.
Premier Farnell aims to take the strain and worry the global economy slows.
Our strategy has identied the out of compliance.
Rather than just linking to hundreds of pages EDE market as a faster growing segment, and although it is of legislation, we consider the impact on, and what it means to not exempt from the slowing global economy, there continue customers, creating relevant information and adapting our to be segments that are demonstrating strength: power product offering and services appropriately.
management, biometrics, medical devices and light emitting Best in industry information is available to customers via a diodes LED see case study on page 33 are all forecast to dedicated website at www.
Overview grow through the recession.
Our rich web environment is documents created by our leading environmental experts are attracting new customers and drawing existing customers available on all relevant directives including EU RoHS and from our more manual sales channels.
There are also REACH, the New Battery Directive, Energy using Products, burgeoning design industries in China, India and Eastern WEEE and China RoHS.
Our in-house experts are also Europe which serve both export and domestic markets.
available to offer customers one-on-one support and guidance, These developing international markets are all expected to as necessary.
continue growing throughout this global downturn, making Environmental and legislative requirements are creating our strategy ever more relevant in these challenging times.
increased need for redesign activities, as well as increased We are also using technology as a source of competitive demands for new designs.
Providing this information is highly valuable to customers and supports and enhances our global advantage.
Design engineers are early adopters of new high service proposition.
technology and they seek to do business with companies that can meet their needs as they evolve.
We have embraced Web 2.0 and as such have created environments where our customers, suppliers and industry experts can share information, collaborate and work on their innovative designs.
As the world economy slows, our strategy continues to be appropriately positioned to take advantage of market opportunities.
R 22 Business Review continued R Markets Outsourcing Our EDE customer experience is built on: With mounting pressures on industry in the US and Western Ease of identication, selection and ordering from a choice Europe to become more efficient and cut xed cost bases, of channels including call centres, web, eld sales teams purchasing professionals are turning to their distributors for and printed catalogues : more assistance than ever before.
Web fundamentals of speed, simplicity of use and Many organisations are streamlining or outsourcing their search capability: procurement to reduce the total cost of purchasing.
These customers are reducing inventory and ordering Broad in-stock range from every leading supplier with closer to their point of need so requiring reliable supply, all of the latest products: late ordering capability and next day service.
Premier Farnells Fast and highly reliable logistics model: MDD businesses are well positioned to create operating efficiencies for such customers by reducing the number Full suite of technical information and data sheets: of suppliers that they deal with and by offering a range of Value-adding services such as technical support and other services.
legislation advice: and One of our key innovations in 2009 was the launch of iBuy, Reduced transaction costs through efficient processes a free online procurement management tool allowing cost such as eProcurement and iBuy.
centre reporting and budget centre control the rapid uptake of the tool is indicative of how strongly this type of innovation The proposition to support our MRO customer base is also resonates with our customer base.
service led, with the availability of product and multi-channel capability valued by these customers too.
And as with EDEs Environmental inuences there is a migration of this experience to e-channels where There is an important and growing list of environmental we can leverage much of our EDE work.
legislation, particularly in Europe, that impacts the Groups customers and especially EDEs.
The RoHS legislation Suppliers restricts the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical Our MDD division constitutes a powerful marketing and and electronic equipment.
These substances are restricted support capability for our franchised supply partners to reach to complement the ease of recycling, re-use and recovery end users and, specifically, to reach EDEs around the world at the end of a products life under the Waste Electrical and to seed the design side of the market with innovative new Electronic Equipment WEEE Directive.
The seeding of new products and technologies countries such as China, Korea and Australia are all looking to the design engineering community is particularly valuable to implement their own versions of RoHS, with others to suppliers as any of their components that are specified in expected to follow.
the early phase of a design will be required in large volumes The Energy using Products EuP Directive looks at the energy when that design goes into production.
consumption of a product from mining the raw material right Our multi-channel approach to the market is an effective means through to its recycling at end-of-life.
Finally, the REACH of ensuring that our large, dispersed and global customer base regulations impose tighter controls over the use of 30,000 can reach us however and whenever they want to and provides chemicals in Europe.
rich engagement opportunities for our suppliers.
All of these pieces of legislation have become important We also offer our suppliers the ability to communicate with considerations for new design work and impact our their target customer base through us, enabling them to customers immediately.
Premier Farnell has made significant understand better the requirements of EDE and MRO users market share gains by embracing this important legislation of their products and supporting our customers around the globe with advice, support and information.
This continues to be an important Suppliers benefit from: area of differentiation for our MDD businesses and one which Multi-channel communication which offers improved customers clearly value.
time to market: Fast and reliable global distribution, supported by the Customer proposition integrity of our supply chain and the technical help Our proposition for the EDE customer is based on the for customers: breadth of our product offering from a wide variety of component suppliers, availability of product for shipment Improved support of new markets through local language that day or the next day, quality and quantity of technical websites and our leadership in key emerging geographies: information to support their work and the integrity of the Effective marketing to specic customer groups within supply chain, all making Premier Farnell a distributor of the Divisions 2,000,000 customer contacts and other choice for high service needs.
website visitors: and EDE customers heavily utilise the web in their work, Market intelligence and feedback.
far beyond simple product searches, and the development of a solution-based approach to our website is central to our We are committed to ensuring that our product offering EDE proposition.
The web is where our customers research is focused on our customer base and it is our intention to new technologies, discuss and review products and interact continue to add further suppliers and products into our with each other.
By recognising, valuing and supporting that stocked inventory to enhance our product offering for the usage we rmly believe we can differentiate our business.
We believe that this will also benefit our MRO customer base as well as making us more attractive as a partner to other suppliers.
23 Premier Farnell Annual Report & Accounts 2009 U U Unique solutions for our innovative customers Enhancing our supplier proposition Over the year, Premier Farnell launched several Suppliers are drawn to the unique Premier Farnell new and innovative tools aimed at our broad value proposition.
The high service business base of global customers.
One such tool is model offers them a platform by which to seed eQuotes.
their designs into the market, targeting early stage designs so that their components are selected eQuotes is the newest tool in Newarks MY ACCOUNT eSuite, for inclusion in nished products.
which offers customers powerful self-service options.
Developed from input and ideas across the organisation, eQuotes was The web is central to our strategic transformation and our designed to transmit quotes containing negotiated pricing direct competitive advantage, as we leverage our expertise in from suppliers over the web.
Deploying this functionality was content, commerce and community to assist our suppliers both strategic and differentiating, fitting perfectly within our drive in navigating this new world.
Our eSupplier programme is to conduct more business via the web, and distinguishing us aimed at delivering a suite of web-based solutions which will from the competition, who do not offer this service.
provide suppliers with access to technologies and insights that are unavailable elsewhere.
eQuotes not only provides our customers with the unique ability to receive quoted pricing over the web, but once the decision is Throughout the year the Group has piloted and embedded a made to purchase from the quote, processing the order online number of tools in the eSupplier suite.
Dedicated microsites is seamless and easy.
At any time, customers can also use the were created to drive increased traffic and sales using search other tools in their eSuite to view their current order status or engine optimisation.
An ePortal was launched to give suppliers history, and print and email invoices.
Packaged together, these access to a broad range of information including self-service tools offer customers an experience that cant be found on any analytics intelligence.
This intelligence includes reports generated other distributor websites.
from a suite of web diagnostic tools which enable us to understand whether our websites are meeting the requirements Customer feedback has been very positive, having even received of our customers.
There was also the development of a virtual industry accolades for the product.
Customers tell us that eQuotes tradeshow environment called ecoSphere.
Here Premier Farnell saves them time, effort and money.
Initially only available through hosted technology conferences attended by suppliers, Newark, this technology will be expanded and added to the customers and industry experts.
Further enhancements are Farnell websites.
being developed, particularly around interactivity and Web 2.0 which will be launched throughout financial year 2010.
Continued innovation will focus on new developments that further improve our customers experience and attract new Individually each of these activities are powerful, but combined customers to this content rich, user friendly channel.
into our eSupplier suite, Premier Farnell is positioning itself as the partner of choice for collaborative programmes focused at understanding customers psyches and decision-making processes during all phases of design from conception through to completion.
