Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 7 Senior management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 50 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1 1 1 1.
Tim Kelly, Aged 52 Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer Chief Operating Of cer, Robert Scho eld joined the Group in 2001 taking Jim Smart joined the Group in October 2009 as Hovis and Chilled responsibility for its branded business.
He was Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to his appointment he Tim Kelly was appointed as a director in June appointed Chief Executive in January 2002. served as Chief Financial Officer of Friends Provident 2008.
Mr Kelly joined Premier Foods in March 2007 Mr Scho eld has extensive manufacturing and plc and was a non-executive director of F&C Asset following the Companys acquisition of RHM, where operational experience gained at United Biscuits plc Management plc.
Formerly he was Chief Financial he was Chief Operating Of cer, Cakes & Customer where he ultimately served as Managing Director of Officer of Boots Group plc having joined the Partnerships.
In December 2007 he assumed United Biscuits UK, directing both the McVities and company in 2003 as Group Financial Controller.
Mr additional responsibility for the Groups Baking KP Foods businesses.
Prior to that Mr Kelly was with Constellation Brands where he was the Chief Operating Of cer, International.
He previously held senior marketing roles at Diageo and Coca-Cola Schweppes Beverages.
Ian McHoul, Aged 50 Chairman Senior independent director Non-executive director David Kappler joined the Group on otation in David Felwick joined the Group on otation in 2004.
Ian McHoul joined the Group on otation in 2004.
Mr Kappler is currently the Mr Felwick is currently Chairman of Product of the He is also Chief Financial Of cer of AMEC plc.
Until Deputy Chairman, senior independent director and Year Ltd.
Prior to this he was Deputy Chairman of April 2008, Mr McHoul was the Group Finance Chairman of the Audit and Nomination Committees the John Lewis Partnership and Managing Director Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
He was at Shire plc and senior independent director and of Waitrose.
His previous appointments include previously the Finance and Strategy Director of the Chairman of the Audit Committee at Intercontinental Chairman of the British Retail Consortium and Inntrepreneur Pub Company Limited and prior to Hotels Group plc.
Prior to this he was Finance Leckford Estate Limited and non-executive director that spent ten years with Courage Limited and its Director of Cadbury Schweppes plc, non-executive of Dairy Farmers of Britain.
parent company Fosters Brewing Group in a variety director and latterly Chairman of HMV plc and a of roles.
Mr McHoul is a Chartered Accountant.
non-executive director of Camelot plc.
Charles Miller Smith, Aged 70 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Louise Makin joined the Group in 2006.
She is David Beever joined the Group in January 2008.
He Charles Miller Smith joined the Group in June currently Chief Executive Of cer of BTG plc, a was previously Chairman of London and Continental 2009.
He is a senior adviser to Warburg Pincus growing life sciences company focused on the Railways plc and International Chairman of KPMG International LLC, Deutsche Bank RREEF development and commercialisation of speciality Corporate Finance.
He spent most of his career Infrastructure and a senior adviser to Defence pharmaceuticals.
Prior to that she was President, at SG Warburg & Co Ltd where he was ViceStrategy & Solutions.
In 2008 he became a Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter Healthcare, Chairman.
He has been a non-executive director of member of the International advisery council for responsible for Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.
a number of listed companies including the Paragon Principal Financial in the USA.
He was recently In 2000 Louise Makin joined Baxter Healthcare as Group of Companies plc, Volex Group plc and an international adviser at Goldman Sachs and a Vice-President, Strategy & Business Development JJB Sports plc.
director of HSBC Holdings PLC.
Before joining Baxter, she was Director of was at Unilever for 30 years, culminating in his Global Ceramics at English China Clay and prior appointment as Director of Finance and a director to that she held a variety of roles at ICI between of Unilever foods.
He also served as Chief Executive 1985 and 1998.
Dr Makin holds an MA in Natural and then Chairman of ICI.
He is currently Chairman Sciences and a PhD in Metallurgy from the of Firstsource Solutions UK Limited.
University of Cambridge, and an MBA.
Bob Spooner, Aged 55 Group HR Director Managing Director Grocery Division Group Procurement Director Group Operations Director Brian Carlton joined the business Will Carter joined Premier Foods and Mark Hughes joined Premier Foods Bob Spooner joined Premier Foods in 1994 as Head of Personnel for the Group Executive in May 2008 and the Group Executive in 2007 in April 2007 with responsibility for all the Canned Foods Division.
His and has responsibility for the ambient following the acquisition of RHM.
manufacturing and logistics activities responsibilities have since been grocery business including cake, Mr Hughes joined RHM in 2003 as for the Group.
Prior to joining extended to embrace all HR activities cooking sauces, desserts, pickles, Divisional Services Director Bread Premier, Mr Spooner was previously across the Group.
He was appointed and beverages.
He was previously Bakeries and became a member of Group Supply Director for Northern to the Group Executive in October Chief Executive of Whitworths and the Bread Bakeries Division Executive Foods and Managing Director of 2006.
Prior to joining Premier, Mr prior to that Managing Director in 2004.
Mr Hughes was previously Northern Foods Pastry Products Carlton held HR and Operational of KP-McVities.
Mr Carter held a Director at Archer Daniels Midland business and prior to that held senior roles in Chrysler UK, K Shoes, Metal number of Marketing and General Milling UK and has held a number operational and supply chain roles Box and Smur t Packaging.
Management roles at United Biscuits.
of senior positions with Associated with ICI Paints, and Sara Lee.
Ian York, Aged 50 Group IS & Change Director General Counsel & Group Sales Director Mark Vickery joined the Group Company Secretary Ian York joined the Group in 1994 in early 2005 as Director of IS & Suzanne Wise joined the Group as General Sales Manager for the Change Management.
Ms Wise has Canned Foods division.
He now acquisition of RHM he assumed the extensive in-house legal experience has responsibility for all UK sales role of Group IS & Change Director.
gained within the listed company activities throughout the business Mr Vickery started his career at environment and joined the Company having been appointed Group Sales Unilever where he spent 17 years from Gallaher Group plc where she Director in 2001.
Previously, Mr York working in a number of businesses held the position of Group Head of held a variety of positions in the UK and geographies.
Prior to Gallaher, she was grocery market with Quaker Oats United Biscuits as IS Director prior to a solicitor in a private practice.
Ms Ltd, Associated British Foods and joining Premier Foods.
Wise is a quali ed solicitor and was Blue Crest.
1 Member of Premier Foods Group Executive.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 51
