Directors report Land and buildings Directors report The directors are of the opinion that there is no significant The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report difference between the book and market value of the land and and audited financial statements of Premier Foods plc and buildings of the Group.
its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Donations Business review No donations were made to political parties 2008: nil.
A review of the Groups business, its activities and During the year the Group made charitable donations performance during the year, its financial position at amounting to 167,000 2008: 287,000 : further information the end of the year and an indication of the likely future on charitable giving can be found within the corporate social developments of the business are provided in the following responsibility section of this annual report.
sections of the annual report and are incorporated in this directors report by reference: Directors The present directors of the Company are listed on page 55 of Our business on pages 1 to 17. the corporate governance report.
Business Review on pages 18 to 49.
Environmental, employee, social and community issues Details of the interests in the share capital of the Company are discussed on pages 42 to 49. of the directors in office as at 31 December 2009 are set out A review of risk management and risk factors on pages 36 within the directors remuneration report.
Group key performance indicators KPIs on pages Statement of directors responsibilities 8 to 12, 18 to 34 and 44 to 49.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the Group and the The corporate governance report forms part of this directors Parent Company financial statements in accordance with report and is incorporated into it by reference.
Principal activities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Premier Foods plc is a public limited company incorporated statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors in England and Wales, registered number 5160050, with have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in its registered office at Premier House, Centrium Business accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Park, Griffiths Way, St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE.
The IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent principal activities of the Group are food manufacturing, Company financial statements in accordance with applicable processing and distribution.
Further information can be law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United found within the overview of our business.
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and Parent Company financial statements are required Financial statements by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The audited financial statements are presented on pages Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group 74 to 126. for that period.
Profit and dividends In preparing those financial statements, the directors are The profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year ended required to: 31 December 2009 was 46.7m 2008: loss of 404.8m.
The directors do not recommend the payment of dividend select suitable accounting policies and then apply them for the year ended 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Research and development prudent: Applied research and development work continues to be state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs directed towards the introduction of new and improved as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the products, the application of new technology to reduce unit Parent Company financial statements that applicable UK and operating cost and to improve service to customers.
Accounting Standards have been followed: and Research and development costs of 3.7m 2008: 5.1m prepare the Group and Parent Company financial were incurred in continuing operations during the year.
statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
52 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information The directors confirm that they have complied with the above Notification Number of % of issued requirements in preparing the financial statements.
received from: ordinary shares share capital WP X Investments Ltd 376,761,419 15.71% The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Franklin Templeton Investment accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Management 307,173,509 12.81% the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Paulson Europe LLP 283,625,120 11.83% accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Alliance Bernstein and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial Investments LP 115,232,250 4.81% statements and the directors remuneration report comply Legal & General Investment with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Management 97,613,259 4.07% financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Share capital and control and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the At the General Meeting held on 23 March 2009, the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
authorised share capital of the Company was increased to 35,000,000 divided into 3,500,000,000 ordinary shares of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 1 pence each nominal value ordinary shares.
During the of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom year, the number of ordinary shares in issue was increased to governing the preparation and dissemination of financial 2,398,021,581 shares as a result of the placing and open offer statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the rights to receive dividends.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the corporate governance report confirms that, to the best of The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the their knowledge: Companys reports and accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior profit of the Group: and approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special the directors report, and the sections of the annual report rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known which are incorporated by reference, includes a fair review arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person of the development and performance of the business and other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements the position of the Group, together with a description of the on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights other than as principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
disclosed in Contractual Relationships below.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors the shares in issue and have no special rights.
to provide the Groups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections At the Annual General Meeting in 2009 shareholders authorised the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of the directors to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
enabling them to give their audit report.
The directors, having Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in made appropriate enquiries, confirm that: treasury.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting at which a further authority will be so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit sought.
No share purchases were made during the year.
information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups from time to time.
auditors are aware of that information.
The Company does not have agreements with any director Substantial shareholdings or employee that would provide compensation for loss of As at 9 March 2010 the Company has been notified, in office or employment resulting from a takeover except that accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may by the Financial Services Authority, of the following interests of cause options and awards granted to employees under such 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the Company: schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 53 Directors report continued Contractual Relationships Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are The Group has contractual arrangements with many parties agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
including directors, employees, suppliers, customers, trade mark owners and banking groups.
The following are Financial instruments considered significant in terms of their effect on the business The financial risk management objectives and policies of the of the Group as a whole: Group, and its exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
The Group has a Term and Revolving Facilities Agreement originally for 2.1bn entered into in 2006 which has Post-balance sheet events subsequently been amended on 5 March 2009, and a Details of post-balance sheet events are set out in note 33 of Receivables Purchasing Agreement and guarantee dated the financial statements.
30 December 2007 which was amended on 5 March 2009 and further amended on 22 December 2009.
Office of Fair Trading In April 2008, the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT notified the The Group entered into a Relationship Agreement with Company, and a number of other UK-based retailers, of an Warburg Pincus in March 2009 setting out the terms and inquiry into potential co-ordination of retail prices in sectors of conditions under which Warburg Pincus have the right to the grocery market.
Premier are co-operating with the inquiry, appoint a director to the Board of Premier Foods and also which continues to gather information.
It is not currently governing the retention of its shareholding in Premier Foods possible to predict how the investigation will proceed and when and the purchase of further shares in the Company.
Under it will be concluded or determine any outcome in advance.
the Relationship Agreement, Mr Charles Miller Smith was appointed to the Board on 16 June 2009.
Independent Auditors  LLP has indicated its willingness to The Group entered into a Pensions Framework Agreement continue as auditors: accordingly a resolution to reappoint them with the trustees of Premiers UK Defined Benefit Plans on will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with 5 March 2009. section 489 of the Companies Act 2006.
The reappointment of  LLP has been approved by the Audit The Group has a licence for certain of Cadbury Limiteds Committee, who will also be responsible for determining their trade marks in connection with ambient packaged cakes.
The audit fee on behalf of the directors.
original licence which was due to expire in January 2010 has been extended for an additional 18 months.
The Group has Going concern as an exclusive, worldwide licence to use the Loyd Grossman The directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group name on sauces, oils and dressings, accompaniments, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence toppings and marinades for a term lasting until 2026. for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
These agreements include change of control provisions which in the event of a change of control could result in the Annual General Meeting business agreements being renegotiated or terminated.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Insurance Hall, 20 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7HY on 20 Employment policies May 2010 at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Annual A summary of the Groups employment policies and the General Meeting will be issued separately, together with actions to involve employees is set out in the corporate details of the business to be considered and full explanations governance report and employee section of this annual of each resolution that is being proposed.
By order of the Board Creditor payment policy Premier Foods plc is a holding company and had no amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 December 2009 Suzanne Wise were 64 days 2008: 61 days of purchases, based on the General Counsel & Company Secretary ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the Premier Foods plc amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Premier House, Centrium Business Park, Griffiths Way St Albans, Hertfordshire, AL1 2RE The Group has standard payment terms of 60 days end of Registered in England and Wales No.
5160050 month which are available as part of the standard terms and 9 March 2010 conditions on the Companys website www.
54 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD
