Key product developments GROWING OUR BRANDED SALES Brand stretch Expanding existing markets Branston brings a Loyd Grossman tasty twist to Mayo Al Forno Bakes March saw the latest innovation launch from Branston as The launch of Loyd Grossman Al Forno bakes is a great Branston Mayo with a Twist hit the supermarket shelves.
example of how we can expand an existing market by making our products more relevant to consumers.
The biggest launch from Branston since the introduction of the successful Relish range, Mayo with a Twist sees Al Forno bakes fill the gap in the market for two person Branston diversifying once again into a completely oven bake meals that appeal to food connoisseurs and new market.
deliver real meal solutions to foodies.
Flavoured mayonnaise is still in its infancy, currently The Italian bakes market is worth 23m and is growing accounting for just 6% of the category.
However, it is 21% year on year.
growing at a massive 96% year on year, and Branston Matt Brown, head of marketing for sauces, said: plans to invigorate the sector by becoming a key player in Consumers are always looking for simple ways to cook the market.
creatively: the quality of Loyd Grossman sauces make Kelly Pym, marketing manager for Branston, said: Foods it the perfect brand to cater for this consumer, and we that have been neglected, such as baked beans and relish, are also broadening the market offering through the have now been rejuvenated by adding some Branston introduction of roast potato and vegetable bakes.
We are confident that this new activity in the This helped Loyd Grossman to achieve its highest ever mayonnaise sector will deliver the excitement the category sales of 42m in 2009, up 20% year on year.
needs and add incremental growth by providing what consumers want an innovative new angle on a much-loved product.
January February March April May June 16 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information One of the key elements of our business model is to grow sales of our Drive and Core brands faster than their respective markets.
To do this we will focus on: Using product innovation and quality to take market share from competitors Stretching our brands by expanding into new categories Expanding existing markets by increasing the frequency of purchase Leveraging our brand equity through brand rejuvenation Brand innovation Brand rejuvenation Ambrosia feel good puds Hovis renaissance Ambrosia is another example of where we are expanding 2009 saw continued success in the rejuvenation of the the market by making products more relevant to more Hovis brand.
Acquired in 2007, Hovis was in market share decline There are an estimated 4 billion lunch box occasions a year having suffered from underinvestment and poor quality.
worth a total of 5.39bn and this category is growing by We made a significant investment in recipe improvements 5.1% year on year.
which have improved quality and taste.
The range was New Ambrosia Puds were launched in August 2009 to also boosted by an increased product range and new reinvigorate ambient desserts with a new range of everyday packaging.
Following the highly successful TV advertising complete desserts.
Designed to meet consumers needs campaign launched at the end of 2008 we have now for lunch box, after dinner and pick-me-up occasions.
returned Hovis to market share growth.
Two delicious combinations Crumble Puds: Ambrosia During 2009 Hovis achieved a total branded market Devon creamy custard and apple, peach or rhubarb fruit volume share of 25.8%, an increase of 3.7pp over the year.
compote with crumble on the side and Jelly Puds which As part of the continuing innovation taking place within the combine jelly with Ambrosia Devon custard on the side.
bakery category Hovis announced in December 2009 the With less than 5% fat they can be enjoyed hot or cold intention to move to sourcing flour milled from 100% British and like the rest of Ambrosia, contain no artificial colours, wheat across its entire range the first major British bread flavours or preservatives.
This has helped Ambrosia reach sales of 83m in 2009, up 9.2% year on year.
July August September October November December www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 17
