Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information MARKETPLACE Markets major UK retailers.
Our Foodservice business sells to local The UK Grocery Market proved resilient despite the authorities schools and hospitals, staff canteens, restaurant recessionary environment in 2009 and pressure on consumer and pub chains largely through intermediate wholesalers.
The total UK Grocery Market is worth 65.8bn and mills produced over 1 million tonnes of flour in 2009, 52% grew 4.8% in 2009.
Branded sales outpaced retailer brands used by the business and the remainder sold to other food with value growth of 7.0% compared to 3.3%.
In addition, we supply retailer branded chilled ready meals, cakes and pizza bases to a number of leading Premier operates in the Ambient Grocery sector and is the food service retailers.
UKs largest manufacturer in this segment with a 6.8% share of the 25.0bn market.
Sales split by customer Our share of the 25.0bn UK Ambient Grocery Market % Premier Foods 6.8 Top 5 retailers 1,569m Nestl UK Ltd Other retailers 452m 4.8 Cadbury PLC Food service United Biscuits wholesalers 330m 3.6 PepsiCo UK Bulk flour 166m Others 144m 3.4 3.3 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Our principal market is the UK, accounting for 93.9% of sales Competitors in 2009.
Due to the breadth of categories that the Group covers, Premier has no principal competitor who operates across all Customers of the same categories.
The competitors that the Grocery We sell both branded and non branded products to a wide division face range from multinational food companies range of customers.
Our most significant customers are the to smaller family or private equity owned businesses.
Competitors who have significant branded shares in the categories in which we operate include H. J. Heinz Company soup, baked beans, the Baxters Food Group soup, pickles, Unilever PLC stocks, cooking sauces, Masterfoods part of Mars Incorporated Group cooking sauces, United Biscuits cakes and Andros UK Ltd preserves.
Hovis principal competitors in the wrapped bread and morning goods markets are Warburtons Ltd and Associated British Foods plc Kingsmill.
The principal competitor in the bulk flour market is ADM Milling Ltd.
Within the chilled market our principal competitors are Northern Foods plc, Bakkavor Group h. f. and Greencore Group plc.
03 In December the Hovis Go on Lad TV advert was voted ITV ad of the decade.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 13
