Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Directors and their interests Corporate governance The following directors held office during the year ended The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a 31 December 2009: fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Designation Appointment David Kappler Chairman 19 July 2004 Compliance statement Robert Schofield Chief Executive 22 June 2004 This report sets out to describe how the Group has applied Tim Kelly Chief Operating Officer 30 June 2008 the principles of good corporate governance as defined Hovis and Chilled in section 1 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate 1 Paul Thomas Finance Director 22 June 2004 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Jim Smart Chief Financial Officer 19 October 2009 June 2008 the Combined Code.
The Code is publicly David Felwick CBE Senior independent 19 July 2004 available at www.
director Louise Makin Non-executive director 1 October 2006 In respect of the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December Ian McHoul Non-executive director 19 July 2004 2009, the Board considers that the Group has complied with David Beever Non-executive director 21 January 2008 the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
The corporate 2 Christine Cross Non-executive director 21 January 2008 governance report forms part of the directors report and is Charles incorporated into it by reference.
Miller Smith Non-executive director 16 June 2009 The Board 1 Retired as a director on 31 August 2009.
Board structure 2 Retired as a director on 31 January 2010.
As at the year end, the Board consisted of a non-executive Chairman, three executive directors, and six non-executive Details of the directors service contracts, letters of directors.
In accordance with the Combined Code, separate appointment, emoluments, the interests of the directors and individuals, David Kappler and Robert Schofield, have been their immediate families in the share capital of the Company, appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are respectively.
David Felwick has been appointed the senior shown in the directors remuneration report.
Charles Miller Smith was appointed as an additional non-executive director on 16 June 2009, Operation of the Board Jim Smart was appointed as an executive director on The Board is responsible for the overall management of the 19 October 2009 and Christine Cross retired as a nonGroup and has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, executive director on 31 January 2010. which includes setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives, approval of annual operating and capital budgets, The Board considers that the non-executive directors, with dividend policy, overseeing the Groups internal control the exception of Charles Miller Smith, are independent systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are in place in character and judgement and within the definition of to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
this term in the Combined Code.
Under the terms of the relationship agreement between the Company and Warburg The Board normally meets at least ten times in each calendar Pincus, Mr Miller Smith, a senior adviser to Warburg year and also meets on other occasions as necessary.
Pincus International LLC, was appointed to the Board as a Meetings are usually held at the Companys head office, in subscriber director.
Under the agreement, Warburg Pincus, St Albans, but the meetings also provide an opportunity for with the agreement of the Company, may appoint to the the Board as a whole to visit the Groups operating facilities.
Board a director so long as they Warburg Pincus retain a Details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and minimum interest of 239,802,158 shares in the Company.
the attendance at those meetings is set out below.
The Combined Code states that the test of independence The Chairman is primarily responsible for the operation of the is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his Board, and sets the agendas in consultation with the Chief appointment.
Board papers, including copies of the minutes of Committee meetings held since The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute the previous Board meeting and comprehensive briefing external expertise and experience in areas of importance documents for all substantive agenda items for discussion, are to the Group such as marketing, customer and consumer circulated in advance of each meeting.
Board meetings are focus, corporate finance, general finance and corporate structured to allow open discussion by all directors of agenda governance.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 55 Corporate governance continued items and members of the Group Executive are invited to and all directors have access to the advice and services of attend and make presentations to the Board regularly.
the Company Secretary, and where a director has a concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to require the The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the nonCompany Secretary to minute that concern.
Should he executive directors without the executive directors present.
later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the executive management of the Group and for implementing The Company purchases directors and officers liability Board strategy and policy within the approved budgets and and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and timescales.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Chief officers against the costs of defending themselves in Financial Officer and the Group Executive, which consists civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and of the senior executives who head up the Groups principal in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful operations and functions.
The Chairman, David Kappler, is currently a non-executive Meetings director of Shire plc and Intercontinental Hotels Group The following table sets out the number of formal meetings plc.
The Board of Premier Foods plc is satisfied that these of the Board and its Committees and individual attendances appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to thereat during the financial year to 31 December 2009. carry out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the In addition to the meetings detailed below, a number of Group.
Biographies of the directors and members of the senior additional meetings of the Board, committees of the Board management team are provided in the section on Board of and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees were directors and senior management which precedes this report.
held for the consideration of specific business denotes attendance by invitation.
The Board met more frequently in 2009 than in previous years as a result of the additional work Procedures are in place, which allow directors to take required in connection with refinancing.
independent professional advice in the course of their duties, Group Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Finance 2 2 David Kappler 12 12 5 5 4 4 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 Robert Schofield 11 12 4 5 2 4 4 4 2 2 1 2 Paul Thomas 8 8 3 3 1 2 Jim Smart 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 Tim Kelly 12 12 5 5 David Felwick CBE 11 12 5 5 4 4 4 4 2 Louise Makin 12 12 5 5 4 4 4 4 2 Ian McHoul 11 12 4 5 4 4 1 4 2 2 2 David Beever 11 12 4 5 2 4 1 4 2 2 2 Christine Cross 11 12 5 5 3 4 3 4 1 Charles Miller Smith 5 6 1 2 1 2 1 Jim Smart was appointed as an executive director on 19 October 2009.
Charles Miller Smith was appointed as a nonexecutive director on 16 June 2009 and Paul Thomas retired from the Board on 31 August 2009.
The chart to the left summarises the approximate time Board allocation of time: Year ended 31 December 2009 the Board has spent discussing agenda items during the Strategy 20% year, separated into broad categories.
Operations 29% Finance & Risk 26% Governance 20% Succession 4% Capex 1% 56 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Directors interests in contracts No director had a material interest at any time during the year Audit Committee in any contract of significance, other than a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Ian McHoul chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other members are David Felwick and David Beever.
Only Remuneration independent non-executive directors who have The Companys policy on directors and senior managers no links with the external auditors may serve on remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and the Committee.
Two members of the Committee, pension arrangements is set out in the directors remuneration Ian McHoul, as the Chief Financial Officer of Amec report.
plc, and David Beever, as a member of the KPMG Advisery Board, have been identified by the Board The directors remuneration report sets out the status of as having recent and relevant financial experience.
the Companys compliance with the requirements of the The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet at least Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters and four times a year and meets with the internal and includes a statement on the Companys policy on directors external auditors at least twice a year without the and senior managers remuneration, benefits, share scheme executive directors present.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and their Appointment, reappointment and retirement by rotation remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies The rules about the appointment, reappointment and and practices adopted in the preparation of the half year results retirement by rotation of directors are contained in the Articles and annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings of the of Association the Articles of the Company.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its obligations Articles, directors may be appointed by the Company by under the Combined Code in areas of risk management and an ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the directors ensuring that an effective system of internal financial and nonrounded down will retire by rotation and be eligible for refinancial controls is maintained.
The ultimate responsibility for election.
The directors to retire will be those who wish to retire reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts remains and those who have been longest in office since their last with the Board.
appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three year period.
The Committee keeps under review the external auditors independence including any non-audit services that are to Jim Smart was appointed as an executive director on be provided by the external auditors.
The auditors are also 19 October 2009 and Charles Miller Smith was appointed as requested to confirm their independence at least annually.
A a non-executive director on 16 June 2009 and accordingly formal policy has been developed and implemented, which they will offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
ensures that the nature of the advice to be provided could not Ian McHoul and David Felwick retire by rotation and, being impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a fee limit, above which a formal Directors biographical details are provided in the section on tender process must normally be undertaken and approval of the Board of directors and senior management that precedes the Committee obtained prior to any proposed appointment.
this report and also in the notice of AGM.
Additionally, the use of delegated authorities to appoint the external auditors is routinely reported to the Committee.
Board Committees The Board has an effective Committee structure to assist in  LLP PwC have been the Companys the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference auditors since it was listed on the London Stock Exchange in of these Committees comply with the provisions of the July 2004.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship Combined Code and are available for inspection on the with auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their Companys website, www.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require PwC to tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 57 Corporate governance continued for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for three years.
Remuneration Committee There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditors.
In October 2009, Louise Makin took over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from During the year PwC were employed to complete a number David Felwick.
Other members of the Committee of projects as part of the Groups review of financing were David Felwick and Christine Cross.
Christine arrangements, which began in 2008 and were reported in retired as a director in January 2010.
Only the last annual report.
independent, non-executive directors may serve on the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Fees incurred in relation to this work amounted to 2.3m in attend Remuneration Committee meetings at 2009.
Before commissioning PwC to undertake the work the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The in 2008, discussions were held between PwC, the Finance Remuneration Committee will normally meet at least Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee to assess twice a year.
any potential threat to the external auditors independence and it was agreed that appropriate safeguards had been put in place by PwC.
The Company assessed that PwC were The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making best placed to perform this additional non-audit work in view recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on of their knowledge of the business, the time constraints in remuneration of executive directors and senior managers completing the work and likely costs.
and for determining, within agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive directors of the Company and such members During the year the Committee approved and oversaw the of senior management as it is delegated to consider, implementation of a new whistle-blowing policy utilising an including pension rights, any compensation payments and independent third party, allowing staff to disclose issues of malpractice or wrongdoing by any of the Groups businesses or the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In employees in confidence, without the fear of reprisals.
Concerns accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no reported to the service are recorded and reported to the Audit director may participate in discussions relating to their own Committee twice a year.
Procedures exist for investigating such terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
matters and for appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
Information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is During the year the Committee: set out in the directors remuneration report.
Received regular reports from the internal audit function, Nomination Committee ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and effectiveness, and agreed the annual audit plan.
David Kappler chairs the Nomination Committee, Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal and its other members are Ian McHoul, David audit function.
Felwick, Louise Makin, David Beever, Christine Cross Authorised the implementation of a new Group whistleand Charles Miller Smith.
Christine Cross retired blowing policy.
David Kappler will Considered the external auditors report for the year not chair the Committee when it is dealing with a ended 31 December 2008. successor to the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Conducted an internal review of the Groups external Committee, which will normally meet not less than auditors which included a review of the auditors twice a year, has responsibility for considering the independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the size, structure and composition of the Board of the audit process.
Company, retirements and appointments of additional Approved the Companys risk management policy and key and replacement directors and making appropriate business risks.
recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate Conducted a review of the Groups treasury policy.
balance of skills and experience on the Board.
Approved the simplification of the Groups legal entity structure.
Reviewed matters relating to the Groups key performance The Nomination Committee has a process for Board indicators and proposals to embed good governance appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and throughout the organisation.
This process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing directors, to assess 58 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information which of the potential short listed candidates would most In 2009 as previous years, the internal evaluation process was benefit the balance of the Board having regard also to the combined with individual performance evaluation as described need for succession planning.
below: As announced in February 2010, David Kappler is to step The Chairman appraises the Chief Executive annually down as Chairman during the course of 2010 and a formal The senior non-executive director meets with all the nonsuccession process has been initiated.
executive directors to discuss the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive During the year the Committee: directors The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Approved directors for reappointment at the AGM are appraised annually as part of the Committee Approved the appointment of a new non-executive director effectiveness review process and any non-executive Approved the selection and appointment of a new Chief directors due for re-election at the following Annual General Financial Officer Meeting are appraised initially by the Chairman, and Reviewed the composition and expertise of the Board thereafter their suitability for re-election is confirmed by the Nomination Committee prior to those non-executive The terms of appointment for the non-executive directors directors offering themselves for re-election are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
The senior management are formally appraised annually premierfoods.
by the Chief Executive, who also appraises the executive directors Finance Committee In accordance with good practice the Board carried out a detailed independent review of the Board and Committees During the year a new Finance Committee was performance during the year.
Accordingly, Boardroom Review, an independent consultant, conducted one to one meetings established to provide additional focus and review with all Board members during the year and attended Board in respect of the Groups ongoing financial strategy.
and Committee Meetings in February.
The findings of the The Finance Committee is chaired by David review were presented to the Board and where possible are Beever and its other non-executive members are being incorporated into the operation and practices of the Ian McHoul and Charles Miller Smith.
In addition Board and its Committees.
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Group Treasurer are also members Shareholders of the Committee.
The Committee, which will Relations with shareholders normally meet not less than three times a year, has The Board recognises that its primary role is to represent responsibility to review and make recommendations and promote the interests of its shareholders, and that it to the Company in relation to matters relating to the is accountable to shareholders for the performance and Groups capital structure, financing and pensions activities of the Company.
The Committee also has responsibility to oversee the governance and activities of the Companys Treasury Committee and Treasury Risk The Company announces its results on a half-yearly basis.
Presentations are made to analysts and major shareholders following the release of the half year and year-end results.
The Company announces trading updates and or interim During the year the Committee: management statements at relevant times throughout the year followed by conference calls with analysts and major Approved the Committees terms of reference shareholders and the Groups website, www.
Approved a Finance Strategy and Governance framework co. uk, contains the full text of such reports, together with for the Committee Stock Exchange announcements, after their release to the Reviewed the Groups swap arrangements market.
The Companys Investor Relations function provide Undertook an initial review of the Groups financial and detailed reports on shareholder make up, Analysts forecasts pensions strategy and feedback at each Board Meeting.
Performance and effectiveness reviews The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are also The Board follows a performance evaluation procedure, which available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The measures its own performance and that of its Committees.
Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent www.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 59 Corporate governance continued director are available to discuss issues and concerns of meetings, specific consultation and involvement regarding shareholders.
Shareholders are also provided with the major changes to the business, the Companys intranet site opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the and quarterly Company magazine.
Chairmen of the various committees, and to present their views at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control The directors are responsible for the Groups systems of Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with the internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
annual report and accounts, is sent to shareholders at least The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of 20 working days before the meeting, and details of the proxy the Groups internal controls covering all material controls, votes for and against each resolution or in respect of which including financial, operational and compliance controls and a vote is withheld are announced after the result of the poll risk management systems in place throughout the year under vote and made available on the Companys website.
To the extent that control weaknesses are identified as part of this review, necessary actions have been, or are in the Employees process of being, taken to remedy them.
As a major employer, Premier Foods is aware of its responsibility to its employees and our policy on employee The Board has delegated direct responsibility for reviewing the welfare and human rights sets a minimum standard to which Groups system of internal control and for regularly monitoring all of the Group companies adhere in order to meet their its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The principal aim of the moral, legal, ethical and humanitarian responsibilities.
system of internal control is to provide an ongoing process that identifies, evaluates and manages the risks that are significant in relation to the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives.
The We recognise that our employees are our single most internal control systems have been designed to manage rather valuable asset and strive to support them in all aspects of than to eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable, and not their training and development through a variety of internal absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and external training and development schemes.
The aim is to ensure that there is a highly trained and motivated workforce, capable of meeting the highest standards The principal role of the Internal Audit function is to review the required by customers and investors.
A significant number effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by of employees participate in formal performance and undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each development reviews, and we are continuing to develop this year.
The nature and scope of this annual audit programme process across the entire business.
is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time The Group is committed to a fair but robust approach to to time in circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of equal opportunities in all areas of our business.
We recruit, a business or any other significant business development.
train, promote and retain skilled and motivated people irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual The findings of these risk-based audits are reported initially to orientation, race, religion, ethnic or national origin.
In line with executive management and any necessary corrective actions this commitment we also promote a culture of openness and are agreed.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, responsibility within our business.
and discussed with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against action plans which are also formally It is the policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to reported.
In addition to the internal audit programme, senior applications for employment received from disabled persons, business managers are required to complete comprehensive having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities: and internal control self assessment questionnaires confirming wherever possible to continue the employment of, and to the operation of internal controls within the business units arrange appropriate training for, employees who have become for which they are responsible throughout the year.
The disabled persons during the period of their employment.
result of this exercise, which also details any material control The Group provides the same opportunities for training, breakdowns, to the extent that they have occurred, is career development and promotion for disabled as for other reviewed initially by the divisional boards and then the Group employees.
Executive prior to formal review by the Audit Committee.
The self assessments are also tested for accuracy as part of the The Group recognises the value of good communication Internal Audit Process.
in engaging our employees towards the achievement of common goals and we have a number of established Further information in relation to the risk management employee consultation and communication mechanisms in process adopted by the Company is detailed within the risk place to achieve this goal including: regular communication management section of this annual report.
60 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD
