Chief Executives statement continued CONSUMERS CONSUMERS AND SHOPPERS ARE AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO With our brands spanning many categories and our focus on the UK, we have the opportunity to make consumer and shopper insight a competitive advantage.
Our consumer and shopper manifesto We have developed a Consumer and Shopper Manifesto designed to help all of our people from new product development through to sales to put consumers and shoppers at the heart of everything we do.
The manifesto has eight simple principles... Focus on the nations Look and taste delicious favourite foods Look great in advertising, in the store and on the plate and really deliver on 1 Concentrate on the meals that most 2 taste.
people eat, most of the time.
Above anything else, people want their food to taste Our research shows that UK households have on great and if it does they will come back for more!
We average a repertoire of just six or seven meals that are will regularly test our products with consumers so cooked on a regular basis.
The most popular meals tend that we know they are the best in market.
Our brands to be traditional favourites such as roast dinners, pasta, need to look good too, including the packaging, the pizza, fish and curry and dont change much over time.
way they are displayed in store, how they look in our We will not single-handedly change how Britain eats so communications and ultimately when they are on the we will focus innovation within the most popular dishes to plate or in the bowl.
help consumers and shoppers have the best experience they can from the food they already eat every day.
Be natural and wholesome Make food easy Striving for natural food, free of artificial The right size, the right shape and ingredients, as part of a healthy easy as 1, 2, 3.
Many consumers find life busier and busier so they value products that save them time and energy.
We People are more aware than ever of what is in will provide food products that require little or no their food and where it comes from they are preparation such as Ambrosia Crumble Puds and re-connecting with food.
As Britains largest food others that will help people create good meals with manufacturer we understand our responsibility to little effort such as our cooking sauces range.
Our make our products as natural and wholesome as products will be easy and intuitive to use, we will possible.
We will look to minimise artificial ingredients provide the right size packs for all households and or preservatives and we will review our levels of salt, the right shape packs to easily fit in the fridge or the sugar and fats.
We want ingredients lists to be as cupboard.
simple as possible using ingredients that people understand.
14 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Stock code: PFD 99.4% of British households bought our brands last year Our business Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Shine in store Offer genuine value for money On shelf, easy to find and attention grabbing.
Good food that goes a long way: 5 6 something that everyone can afford.
A typical UK supermarket has 30,000 different products on display.
Many shoppers shop on There are few shoppers who are not concerned about autopilot so we need to make sure that our products looking after their finances in the current economic stand out on the shelves whether through eyeclimate and they want to get great value for the catching colour, unique shape or via Point of Sale money they spend.
This is of course about quality, but materials.
To help us shine in store we must ensure also the right price and the promotional context.
Many our products are always on the shelves when the of our products are ambient, reducing waste and shopper is choosing.
We will work with our customers further improving value.
to make it easy to find our categories within the store Premier Foods can only recommend to the retailer a price to be paid and to offer shoppers helpful ideas for food at a by the shopper.
The actual price paid is always independently set by relevant moment in their shopper journey.
Do the right thing A brand you love Treating people and the environment Forming an emotional bond between responsibly.
7 8 Environmental and ethical issues are increasingly Many of the Consumer and Shopper Manifesto important to consumers and shoppers but for principles are rational and practical but a final critical many deciding what is the right thing to do can be element is that consumers maintain an emotional confusing and complex.
Research has shown that bond with our brands.
We understand what it is about consumers and shoppers will look to governments and our brands that people love and we will continue to manufacturers to help them and as the UKs largest engage our consumers in modern and relevant ways.
food producer, we recognise our responsibility.
We need to ensure that consumers and shoppers can make the right choices by communicating the good things we are doing through our brands, such as moving to sourcing 100% sustainable Palm Oil through the GreenPalm Certification Scheme.
Putting the manifesto into practice By combining these attributes we can have a real impact with consumers and shoppers as seen by the Loyd Grossman Bolognaise launch in April 2009.
Firstly we focused attention on Spaghetti Bolognaise, this is Thirdly a new family size jar was launched, making food the seventh most popular meal eaten by British households easy for families.
eaten on 165 million separate occasions.
So we focused Finally the product was supported by a new TV ad on the nations favourite foods.
campaign a brand you love and a very well-executed in Secondly the Loyd Grossman Bolognaise sauce recipe was store programme of promotions, displays and point of sale reviewed, tested and improved.
So we tasted even more helped us shine in store.
This has helped the Loyd Grossman brand to the most successful year in its history.
Loyd Grossman sales grew by 20% in 2009 and our sauces were enjoyed in over 2 million more households than in the previous year.
co. uk Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2009 15
