Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Mike Welton 63, joined Premiers Board Tony Durrant 51, joined Premier in June 2005.
Andrew Lodge 53, joined Premiers Board in June 2009 as a non-executive director After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant as Exploration Director in April 2009 from and became Chairman in October 2009. with Arthur Andersen, he joined Lehman Hess where he was Vice President, Exploration, Mr Welton is also Chairman of Southern Brothers in London, initially as an oil sector responsible for Europe, North Africa, Asia Water Services Ltd and a director of Morrison analyst.
He joined the investment banking and Australia for nine years.
Previously, he Utility Services and High Speed Two, the division of Lehman in 1987 and from 1997 was Vice President, Exploration, Asset government owned LLC set up to examine was a Managing Director and Head of the Manager and Group Exploration Adviser for high speed rail connections between London European Natural Resources Group.
In this BHP Petroleum, based in London and and the West Midlands.
He sits on the role, he managed both client relationships Australia.
Prior to joining BHP Petroleum, advisory board of Montrose Associates.
Mr and numerous transactions for a variety of Andrew worked for BP as a geophysicist.
Welton was previously Chairman of Hanson European and North American clients.
He is a John Orange 67, joined Premiers Board plc 2005-2007, the Turkish British Business non-executive director of Clipper Windpower as a non-executive director in February 1997.
Council and the UK Governments Railway plc.
He joined the Premier Board in July 2005 He held a variety of senior international Sector Advisory Group.
He was also Chief as Finance Director.
management and legal posts during his Executive of Balfour Beatty plc 1999-2004.
Neil Hawkings 48, joined Premier in 30 years with the BP Group.
Mr Orange Mr Welton is the Chairman of Premiers May 2005 after more than 20 years with is Chairman of Exile Resources Inc.
ConocoPhillips where he worked in a variety Premiers senior independent non-executive Robin Allan 50, joined Premier from Burmah of engineering, commercial and management director, Chairman of the Remuneration Oil in July 1986, working initially as a geologist.
roles around the world, undertaking Committee and a member of the Audit After technical and new venture roles he assignments in the UK, Dubai and Indonesia.
and Risk and Nomination Committees.
spent six years in South East Asia, initially He joined the Premier Board in March 2006 Professor David Roberts 66, joined Premier managing Premiers Asian existing and new as Operations Director.
in June 2006 as a non-executive director.
venture business and later becoming David Lindsell 62, joined Premiers Board in Professor Roberts has over 30 years experience Premiers Country Manager in Indonesia.
He in all aspects of exploration worldwide and He became a member of the Premier Board was a partner at Ernst & Young LLP for nearly extensive knowledge of deep water areas, in December 2003 as Director of Business 30 years and has extensive experience across sedimentary basins, stratigraphy and prospect Development.
Mr Allan has now returned to a range of industry sectors, with a strong assessment.
He spent 22 years with BP in a Asia as Director Asia, managing the Asian knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
Mr number of technical roles, including Global portfolio from the Singapore office.
Lindsell is currently a non-executive director of Exploration Adviser and Distinguished Joe Darby 61, joined Premiers Board as a Drax Group plc and Gartmore Group Ltd and Exploration Adviser.
Professor Roberts is a non-executive director in September 2007. is Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting non-executive director of GETECH plc and Mr Darby has over 40 years of experience in Review Panel.
Mr Lindsell is the Chairman of Medserv plc and has established his own the energy sector, including eight years with Premiers Audit and Risk Committee and a geoscience consultancy.
He is a visiting Shell Petroleum before becoming Managing member of the Remuneration Committee.
professor and fellow of Royal Holloway, Director of Thomson North Sea Ltd.
He has University of London, the University of Simon Lockett 45, Chief Executive, joined held a number of senior roles, including Southampton and IFP School in Paris.
Premier in January 1994 from Shell and has Chief Executive, with LASMO plc.
Mr Darby Professor Roberts is a member of Premiers worked in a variety of roles for Premier, is a non-executive Director of Nordaq Energy Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
including the management of investor Inc and Alkane Energy plc, and has held nonrelations, as Commercial Manager in Michel Romieu 70, joined Premiers Board executive roles at British Nuclear Fuels plc, Indonesia and as Country Manager in as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Mowlem plc and Centurion Energy Inc.
He became a member of the Premier Mr Romieu has over 30 years experience in Chairman of Mowlem plc 2005-2006 and Board in December 2003 as Operations the international energy sector, including Faroe Petroleum plc 2003-2007.
He was appointed Chief Executive 25 years with the Elf Group, where he held is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk, in March 2005.
Mr Lockett is a member of several senior positions including Chief Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Executive of Elf UK and the groups Gas Division.
He was elected President of the UK Offshore Operators Association for the year 1995, and held the position of Director for Gas of CRE, the French energy regulator, from 2000 to 2003.
He has established his own consultancy specialising in providing advice to the gas industry, and is a lecturer at the French Petroleum Institute.
Mr Romieu is also President of Uprigaz.
He is a member of Premiers Audit and Risk Committee.
Premier Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements 25 Mike Welton, Simon Lockett, Tony Durrant Robin Allan, Neil Hawkings, Andrew Lodge, John Orange Professor David Roberts, Joe Darby, David Lindsell, Michel Romieu Governance
