Corporate responsibility Safety We are committed to ensuring our customers can travel in safety and providing a safe environment for employees to work.
Safety underpins all our operational procedures with accountability for safety at every level of the organisation.
The Board safety committee regularly reviews and monitors safety performance and reports to the Board.
The committee has been chaired by senior non-executive director Steve Williams since April 2009 when the previous chair, Veronica Palmer, retired.
We ensure appropriate resources and support are provided to maintain high standards of safety, with monitoring and review systems and clear communication to reinforce its importance across the group.
59 Picture from David Brereton train manager, CrossCountry, UK.
A rail safety inspection Corporate responsibility continued The managing director of each business is Fault incidents responsible for ensuring its health and safety plan per 100,000 kilometres KPI complies with local legislation and is regularly reviewed and updated.
Each business operates a safety management system and ensures risks to 2.0 1.7 1.8 1.66 1.65 health and safety are identified, assessed and 1.6 1.6 1.40 1.41 appropriately managed.
1.4 1.2 1.0 A European health and safety forum is being set up 0.8 in 2010 to formalise sharing best practice in safety 0.6 management and reporting across the group.
0.4 0.2 0 00 0 Rail Group Bus 2007 2008 2009 A fault incident is where our driver or the condition of our vehicle contributes to a loss, damage or injury.
We measure fault reports per 100,000 kilometres operated.
The fault incident rate for 2009 was broadly consistent with 2008.
Employee injuries per 100 employed KPI 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.4 Regular engineering maintenance and stringent 1.2 safety checks underpin the reliability and 1.0 0.7 0.8 mechanical safety of our vehicles.
In the UK, the 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 first time pass rate for Arriva buses in Vehicle and 0.4 Operator Services Agency VOSA testing for 2009 0.2 0 was 95.6 per cent, building on improvements Bus Rail Group made the previous year.
2007 2008 2009 VOSA An employee injury is where any person employed first time pass rate % by the company at the time of the incident suffered physical harm or mental trauma as a result of an incident arising from Arriva work activity, not including physical assaults.
We recognise employee injuries 2009 2007 2008 as any reported injury.
The number of employee 93.2 95.6 94.5 injuries per 100 people employed is reported as a monthly average for the year.
In 2009, group employee injuries per month remained at 0.4 per 100 employed.
60 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Each business operates a safety management system and ensures risks to health and safety are identified, assessed and appropriately managed Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Maintaining a safe working environment with a depot safety forum at Enfield, London In 2009 we mounted a safety awareness campaign Training and motivation for safety across our Spanish bus businesses, with improved At Arriva we reinforce our commitment to the communication to employees.
Particular safety safe operation of public transport with training tips or potential hazards are highlighted each and awareness campaigns for our employees month through high impact visual displays.
Safety and contractors which reflect changing technology committees established with the trade unions and operating circumstances.
and depot level safety forums help deliver a three step approach of identifying risk, communicating Standards of safety awareness are maintained it and mitigating it by training or change of process through comprehensive training and inspection regimes.
Training includes safety theory, vehicle In our UK Bus division we launched a poster safety maintenance, analysis of accident causes awareness campaign highlighting a new policy and driving regulations.
Training courses include which sees 10 per cent of employees randomly practical sessions so drivers can experience selected for drugs testing each year, alongside different road conditions and practice skid control, alcohol testing precise manoeuvring and emergency braking.
In the Netherlands each year we provide the five per cent of bus drivers who have the highest accident rates with remedial training The engineering excellence initiative at our bus business in Yorkshire, in the UK, raises further awareness of the safety benefits of well managed workshops and ensures the highest standards of maintenance are upheld 61 CCTV control room at Arriva Scotland West.
Cameras are helping to reduce anti-social behaviour Hands-free cameras are making travel safer in Wales Corporate responsibility continued Safety training is an essential part of the Certificate of Professional Competence courses we run for bus drivers in the UK.
Safety awareness posters designed by drivers have been used for driving and workplace safety campaigns.
Depot-based road safety groups take a proactive approach to safety issues, carrying out route risk assessments, and where appropriate, producing DVDs highlighting road safety hazards.
Working with Mersey Tunnel Police, we have produced a safety DVD advising bus drivers on Train drivers from CrossCountry took part in school visits in Scotland and England to support Network speed and lane restrictions in the Mersey Tunnel and what to do in the event of a breakdown.
Rails national No messin campaign, explaining the dangers of trespassing and vandalism on the railway Protecting our passengers and employees Working with the police, in Germany in 2009 we The fear of crime or anti-social behaviour is a real launched a campaign to reduce the number of accidents caused by people crossing rail lines concern for some people, including those using public transport.
Across the group, Arriva works to create a reassuring and safe environment for our Other safety initiatives in 2009 included: passengers and employees.
Arriva has joined the Federatie Mobiliteit initiative We work with local and transport police forces, local in the Netherlands with government and police to authorities and other stakeholders on initiatives that reduce anti-social behaviour and improve both reduce crime and provide reassurance to passenger and driver safety customers.
In the UK we are working with West Yorkshire Arriva London has continued working with police and Police to tackle anti-social behaviour in, for Transport for London as part of the Safer Transport example, Wakefield bus station Team to ensure a safer environment for transport At Udine, Italy, we supported the Easy Foot public staff and passengers and road safety initiative with video cameras The increasingly widespread deployment of CCTV installed on SAF buses providing updated safety, is helping to reassure passengers about safety.
road condition and traffic information to local Cameras fitted inside and outside our buses are authorities aimed at reducing vandalism, anti-social behaviour, assaults and fraudulent insurance claims In the UK more than 88 per cent of our bus fleet now carries CCTV, up from 81 per cent in 2008 In the Netherlands, Arriva was the first bus operator to have CCTV installed on all of its vehicles Technical innovation is being used to combat antisocial behaviour and improve safety on Arrivas trains and at stations in Wales.
The Welsh Assembly Government has funded lightweight hands-free cameras being worn by Arriva Trains Wales ATW security officers and British Transport Police in Swansea, Pontypridd and Newport Satellite technology enables personal safety alarms worn by ATW conductors and station staff to identify the location of an incident when activated 62 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 In the UK 88% of our bus fleet now carries CCTV Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Healthy Schools Bus brings sport and nutrition advice in Liverpool, UK Pupils in Braga, Portugal, learn road sense in a safe environment Community Our services provide daily travel for millions of people.
Whether for work, leisure or other essential journeys they depend on us to be reliable.
KPI A key measure of our performance is the proportion of our planned mileage we operate.
In 2009 the proportion of scheduled mileage operated was 98.9 per cent.
Improving accessibility for people with restricted mobility continues to progress as a result of significant investment over the past two years.
The proportion of accessible low floor vehicles in our UK bus fleet is now 82 per cent, up from 74 per cent in 2008.
Proportion of scheduled mileage operated 2009 % 98.9 82% of our bus fleet is now accessible with low floor vehicles, up from 72% in 2008 63 Arriva Skandinavien employees cycled from Copenhagen to Paris raising 200,000 for childrens cancer charities Low floor buses are improving access for people with pushchairs or wheelchairs ATW has identified a solution for accessibility issues at stations with a high step between platform level and train.
At Aberdyfi in Gwynedd a hump has been installed to raise part of the low platform, without the need for major engineering works.
Another is set for installation at Valley station on Anglesey in spring 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Listening and adapting We listen to the communities we serve, and help them to have a voice in shaping our services to suit local needs.
Arriva holds open days at depots and workshops to give our customers and neighbours a closer look at what we do and to strengthen ties with the communities in which we work.
In other locations we put on exhibitions or road shows.
For example: In 2009 in Galicia, Spain, we organised passenger road shows in villages to give local people a chance to share their views with Arriva directors and local mayors In St Helens, UK, we mounted a display of new buses ready to begin service in the borough and supported a Be Local, Buy Local campaign to help the communitys local retailers through the recession Our supervisors and managers travel on our buses to experience services from a customer perspective, listening to passengers and exploring ways to improve our services In 2009 our UK bus business raised the profile of our back to the floor initiative with senior managers getting face-to-face feedback on local services in Glasgow, Whitby, Leeds and Wakefield.
The divisions commercial director and employees from depots in Liverpool and Luton spent time staffing the customer service line, dealing personally with information requests and receiving comments on services.
64 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Raising the platform at Aberdyfi, Wales, to improve accessibility In the Czech Republic in 2009 our Bosak bus company developed a special service for people with disabilities in conjunction with the Central Bohemia regional government.
The service includes transport to hospitals and public offices Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility In Copenhagen, Denmark, customer satisfaction on our buses was 81 per cent building on improvements over the previous two years Customer satisfaction Satisfied passengers should be at the heart of any transport business.
By monitoring and measuring customer opinion we ensure we can target improvements to meet peoples requirements for safe, reliable and good value transport services.
In mainland Europe in 2009, a series of independent surveys showed improvements on the previous year Our rail services in Denmark achieved a record level of customer satisfaction in 2009, at 80.6 per cent At 71 per cent, passenger satisfaction on our Swedish trains continued to improve, rising four percentage points on 2008 In the Netherlands an independent customer survey of rail passengers by watchdog Satisfaction with Arriva bus drivers was 91 per Consumer Guide scored Arriva at 65 per cent cent and improved satisfaction with onboard in the overall quality score, higher than its cleanliness was at 83 per cent, reflecting the private and public sector rivals.
Passengers impact of initiatives to improve reliability and also rated Arriva as the best performing bus cleanliness operator in terms of staff and seat availability, To gather ongoing feedback between the punctuality and reliability surveys, in 2009 we asked customers to In Greater Copenhagen, Denmark, we volunteer as bus ambassadors to feed back maintained satisfaction levels on our buses.
ideas and report on service quality.
More than The 81 per cent score for 2009 was up slightly 100 people signed up, representing a cross from 80.6 per cent in 2008 section of passengers from school pupils to pensioners On our buses in Stockholm, Sweden, we had a satisfaction rating of 74 per cent, and were In UK Trains the picture was also positive at both the highest scoring operator at the end of our franchises 2009 and in early 2010 Passengers on our CrossCountry services In Portugal, our TST business recorded the recorded improvements in satisfaction with highest level of customer satisfaction since the facilities and services, punctuality and capacity survey began five years ago in the autumn 2009 National Passenger Survey, compiled by consumer watchdog In 2009 a large-scale survey of our UK bus Passenger Focus.
The satisfaction level was passengers returned the best ever overall 85 per cent, two per cent above the national satisfaction levels average Almost 20,000 customers scored Arriva on At ATW, 86 per cent of passengers were 24 different aspects of their journey with satisfied with ATW services, three per cent overall satisfaction rising to 93 per cent after above the national average two years at 91 per cent 65 Liverpool pupils get fit with the Healthy Schools Bus Corporate responsibility continued Alongside customer satisfaction surveys, the Reaching out feedback we receive as part of our community engagement is invaluable in adapting and Our community activities vary between improving our services.
This flexibility and focus businesses and countries.
Some of the most on passenger demand has paid dividends for significant activities in 2009 were: local communities.
For example in 2009 in Galicia, Spain, we began trials of demand-response services and hail and ride services in some rural areas where bus stops are further apart than is convenient for less mobile members of the community.
Customer feedback was a key factor in the 2009 reorganisation of the customer services function at our UK bus business, with designated teams responsible for specific local areas.
We extended opening times and redeveloped our customer website, www.
co. uk In 2009, Arrivas Healthy Schools Bus initiative, developed in partnership with Liverpool City Councils Healthy Schools project and the Everton Foundation, took exercise and healthy eating messages to more than 6,000 pupils.
Inspired by a visit to the Healthy Schools Bus, the South African Football Association has bought eight buses to use in a health awareness campaign in the run-up to the 2010 World Cup In September 2009, Arriva in conjunction with Sunderland City Council, Sunderland AFC Foundation and Sport England, launched the Active Bus.
The former service bus, equipped with health monitoring equipment, exercise bikes and other fitness facilities, tours schools, community venues and public events, providing free health and fitness checks and advice 66 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Listening to our customers at Arriva North West, UK Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Community theatre helps pupils learn in Madrid, Spain Schools School visits play an important part in our work with local communities across Europe.
Arriva employees help with road and rail safety advice and explain the environmental benefits of public transport.
In northern Portugal we work in partnership with local authorities in the district of Braga to transport pupils to road safety training sessions where they also learn how to behave when using public transport.
The sessions for 13-year-olds include the use of pedal cars to learn traffic signals and improve road safety awareness In Denmark and Sweden we bring school groups to our depots to introduce them to the practicalities of using public transport, including tips on how to travel safely Across the UK, our schools pack continues to be a valuable resource for teachers of seven to In Wales our award-winning community 11-year-olds, supporting the curriculum in maths, engagement programme included a project science and social and environmental awareness with the sea cadets and youth offending service to improve the environment at Port In 2009 we were recognised for our exceptional Talbot Parkway station.
The sea cadets contribution to the community at the Milton Keynes designed and painted murals and young Investors in Education awards offenders helped repaint the footbridge and In Darlington, Arriva has been a partner in a other parts of the station platform as part of walking bus scheme to help reduce the number of their community reparation private cars used on the school run and promote exercise-related health benefits.
Our support has included donating high-visibility vests to help ensure the safety of children and supervisors Our Esfera private hire business in Madrid works with community theatre groups to provide an extra educational dimension to visits made by school parties.
Trained actors are engaged to provide live history role-plays to increase understanding and interest in locations being visited by bus 67 Mural painted by sea cadets at Port Talbot Parkway station, Wales ATW supported Barry Island Primary School as part of the Eco Schools programme Corporate responsibility continued CrossCountry donated 6,000 Books for Schools Empowering our employees vouchers to the James Brindley School in Our employees take pride in being part of the local Birmingham, collected from newspapers destined communities where we provide services, living for recycling.
The school exchanged the vouchers in the areas where we work.
encouragement to follow their own community or The mobility and space provided by former service charity interests.
buses provides community facilities in many Charity and community-minded efforts by locations across Arrivas operating areas.
In 2009 employees which we supported in 2009 included: former Arriva service buses were used as: In Italy our SAF bus company continued its supportA mobile youth and community centre for young providing vehicles to a summer camp initiative which peoples charity Enthusiasm in Derby, UK enables local disabled people to get involved in A mobile youth centre in Renfrewshire, Scotland sporting activities In the UK, a group of drivers and support staff at Arriva Londons Croydon garage won a gold community action award for their fundraising support for a local hospice over more than 20 years Local Arriva businesses support grassroots sport with community sponsorships In Galicia, Arriva employees continued to support helping the areas where our customers and Sin Fronteras, a Spanish charity dedicated to employees live and work.
In 2009, such famine and poverty relief work in Africa local support included backing a local cricket league in Lancashire, an under In the UK, CrossCountry employees again supported 12 soccer team in Derbyshire, and a their adopted charity, Country Holidays for Inner community basketball club with City Kids Chicks, which helps disadvantaged sponsorship and transport youngsters have a holiday.
The company continued in the Mostoles area of Madrid to provide free train tickets for children and their carers attending the Chicks activity centre in Devon A team of 12 employees from Arriva Skandinavien completed a 1,500 kilometre charity cycle ride from Copenhagen to Paris in eight days, raising 200,000 for childrens cancer charities Typical of our approach are the community action awards we run in the UK, whereby employees are supported in their voluntary work in local communities.
Those recognised gain cash awards from Arriva for the local causes they have stepped forward to support.
In 2009 we rewarded more than 30 employees and their chosen charities.
Platinum level awards went to two employees for their outstanding contribution: Rick Halsall from Arriva North West raised more than 20,000 for the Multiple Sclerosis Trust through events including sponsored treks across the Sahara Desert and along the Great Wall of China CrossCountry train driver Simon Holdsworth from Newcastle for raising more than 40,000 for a cancer charity which he co-founded in memory of a close friend 68 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Corporate responsibility
