Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Getting away safely with CrossCountry in the UK 56 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 At Arriva we recognise that our employees, shareholders, customers and other stakeholders are increasingly interested in understanding the social and environmental impact of our operations.
Our approach A mural by local school children brightens up the station at Barry in Wales Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Safety Every day our transport services are essential for millions of people across Europe.
Naturally Employees our shareholders, customers and other stakeholders, alongside our own employees, are increasingly interested in understanding the social and environmental effects of our operations.
We manage and report on these effects under four main themes: Safety Putting the safety of our employees and customers first is at the core of the groups values Community Being an active local partner Employees Engaging our people Environment Mitigating the impact of our operations Under the chairmanship of Bob Holland, a member of the group executive committee and managing director of our UK Trains division, Arrivas corporate responsibility committee oversees the groups corporate responsibility policies and performance.
The committee includes senior managers from all three divisions as well as the group centre.
Corporate responsibility online at www.
co. uk 57 Environment Highlights: Community Our social impact falls under four main themes Record levels of customer satisfaction in Danish rail Well on track to meet 2012 greenhouse gas reduction target Employee satisfaction up across the business Highest ever performance results at UK Trains Corporate responsibility continued Our strategic objectives for corporate Our governance and performance in relation responsibility management are: to corporate responsibility issues has gained increased recognition by internationally To ensure that appropriate governance respected groups including the following: arrangements are in place across the group FTSE4Good To ensure that corporate responsibilities are Arriva plc is a member of the FTSE4Good integrated into our business processes corporate responsibility index.
Our status was reconfirmed in the 2009 reviews of the index, To strengthen our environmental stewardship which acts as a guide for investment in companies meeting internationally recognised corporate Arriva is committed to raising awareness of responsibility standards.
FTSE4Good gives a corporate responsibility across the group, sharing benchmark for global investors keen to manage experiences and facilitating the exchange of best the environmental and social risks in their portfolios.
Under FTSE4Goods independent review, we demonstrated that we have the policies and procedures in place to responsibly manage the environmental performance and social impacts of our transport operations Ethibel Arriva has qualified to be listed on the Ethibel Excellence Investment Register.
Our listing was confirmed in September 2009 by Brussels-based Ethibel following research by European corporate social responsibility agency Vigeo.
The listing assures investors looking for investments with an ethical dimension that Arriva meets recognised standards Dobra Firma Arriva PCC, our joint venture in Poland, received a Dobra Firma social responsibility award in 2009 for its commitment to eco-friendly transportation, good citizenship and taking care of its employees Our code of business conduct sets out the Brand Emissions Leader standards expected of agents, subcontractors and Following analysis by Edinburgh University suppliers as well as Arriva employees.
The Business School and ENDS Carbon, a specialist managing director of each business or relevant carbon ratings agency, Arriva was named a Brand head of department is responsible for ensuring Emissions Leader for its performance in cutting its employees are made aware of the code and their greenhouse gas emissions intensity and putting responsibility therein.
ambitious targets in place for further reductions.
Arriva does not make political contributions or Brand Emissions Leaders were assessed as donations, or any payment or donation which having targets in line with the UK governments could reasonably be construed as such, and this Copenhagen goal of 34 per cent carbon policy applies to all businesses and companies in emissions reduction by 2020 on 1990 levels the group.
58 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The following policies, which govern Arrivas impact on society, are published on our website www.
co. uk Human rights policy Code of business conduct Health and safety policy Environmental policy Human resources policy Diversity policy Corporate governance policy Arriva and accessibility Community relations policy Whistleblower policy Corporate responsibility
