Directors report Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited accounts of Arriva plc for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities The principal activities of the company and the group at 31 December 2009 comprised the operation of bus and train services in the UK and 11 countries in mainland Europe.
Business review A review of the groups principal activities and performance for the year is contained in the chairmans statement on pages 34 and 35, the chief executives review on pages 36 to 43, the financial review on pages 44 to 49 and the corporate responsibility report on pages 56 to 79, which collectively comprise the business review and these are included in this report by reference.
A review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company is set out on pages 50 to 53 and is also included in this report by reference.
This Annual Report & Accounts contains certain forward-looking statements.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend upon circumstances that occur in the future.
There may be a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
KPI Key performance indicators The group uses the following key performance indicators KPIs to assist in the understanding of the development, performance and position of the business: i Earnings per share, before goodwill impairment, intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items see financial review page 45 ii Order book see our business page 8 iii Employee turnover and non-attendance see corporate responsibility report page 71 iv Return on capital employed see financial review page 49 v Percentage of scheduled mileage operated see corporate responsibility report page 63 vi Public Performance Measure for UK Trains see chief executives review page 42 vii Fault incidents per 100,000 kilometres see corporate responsibility report page 60 viii Employee injuries per 100 employed see corporate responsibility report page 60 Results and dividends The profit for the year amounted to 119.2 million 2008: 111.2 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend on the ordinary shares of the company of 18.80 pence per share 2008: 17.91 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 6.46 pence 2008: 6.15 pence represents a total of 25.26 pence per ordinary share 2008: 24.06 pence.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be payable on 10 May 2010 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 9 April 2010.
The total amount paid and proposed to be paid is 50.3 million in respect of 2009 2008: 47.8 million.
Share capital The share capital of the company is made up of 400,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, each share having one vote.
As at 2 March 2010, there were 199,159,195 shares in issue.
The total number of voting rights was therefore 199,159,195.
The movement in the share capital during the year is detailed in note 22 to the accounts.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM shareholders gave authority for the purchase of up to 10 per cent of the companys issued ordinary shares but this authority has not been utilised.
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the 2010 AGM.
Directors The names and biographies of the directors appear on pages 82 and 83.
Steve Clayton and Veronica Palmer both retired as directors on 22 April 2009.
David Martin, Nick Buckles and Steve Williams will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the AGM on 6 May 2010.
84 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements No director was directly interested in any contract or arrangement which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Sir Richard Broadbent is a director of Barclays Bank plc, which was a lead arranger in a 615 million syndicated revolving credit refinancing facility that the company entered into in August 2007.
Sir Richard played no active role in the negotiation of this facility.
Angie Risley is group human resources director of Lloyds Banking Group plc, which provides asset-backed finance and on-going annual bilateral working capital facilities to the group.
Angie took no active part in the discussions concerning the arrangement of these facilities.
Nick Buckles is chief executive of G4S plc, which supplies services to a number of Arriva group companies: Nick was not involved in the establishment of these arrangements.
Indemnification of directors In accordance with its articles of association and as approved by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the company has the power at its discretion to grant an indemnity to the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Deeds of indemnity were issued to all directors in post in May 2006 or on subsequent appointment.
Updated deeds, compliant with the Companies Act 2006, were issued to all directors in June 2009.
The company has maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the period.
Neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No claims have been made either under the indemnity or the insurance policy.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors remuneration report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the company and group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent State whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards, have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the group and parent company financial statements respectively Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 82 and 83 of this report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and The business review which can be found on pages 34 to 79 of this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The directors confirm that, as at the date this report was approved, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
85 Directors report continued Directors interests The interests of the directors including their relevant family interests in the share capital of the company at the end of the year, and details of directors interests under the Long Term Incentive Plan, appear in the directors remuneration report on pages 88 to 96.
Purchase of own shares No shares have been purchased pursuant to the authority granted to the directors at the AGM held on 22 April 2009.
Renewal of this authority will be sought at the AGM to be held on 6 May 2010.
Charitable and political donations During the year the group made charitable donations, for a variety of charitable purposes, amounting to 66,292 2008: 97,107 of which 14,100 comprised donations in excess of 2,000 to charities for medical purposes.
There were no political donations 2008: nil.
Further information on charitable donations can be found in the corporate responsibility report on page 68.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held on 6 May 2010.
Details of business to be considered at the meeting can be found in the Notice of AGM which has been sent to all shareholders with this report, and which appears on the website at www.
Employees The Board of Arriva plc recognises that its employees are key to its success and is committed to creating a working environment where everyone has the opportunity to learn, develop and contribute to the success of the group, working within a common set of values.
The group intends to be an employer of choice and to employ a diverse workforce with the skills, abilities and attitudes to meet business goals and objectives.
The groups aim is to create an environment in which all people are valued and can be successful at work.
The group continues to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons, having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities and its policy includes the continued employment, training, career development and promotion, where appropriate, of those who may become disabled during their employment.
The group has, subject to the restraints of commercial confidentiality, continued its policy of supporting employee involvement and awareness of business activities, by making information available on a regular basis on matters of concern to them as employees and by seeking employee views and feedback using appropriate communication channels, including Information and Consultation Committees in the UK.
Employee briefings are circulated throughout the group on business performance and publication of results.
UK employees also have the opportunity to join the companys Share Incentive Plan, which is open to all UK employees with three months service and gives the opportunity to buy shares in the company in a tax-efficient manner.
Further information on employee representation can be found in the corporate responsibility report on page 70.
86 | Arriva plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors statements Directors statements Policy regarding payment of suppliers The companys policy regarding the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier or to ensure that the supplier is made aware of the payment terms, and in either case to pay in accordance with its contractual or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2009 the companys trade creditors outstanding represented approximately 34 days purchases 2008: 33 days.
Substantial shareholdings As far as the directors are aware, the only notifiable holdings equal to or in excess of three per cent of the issued ordinary share capital as at 2 March 2010 were: % Aberdeen Asset Management PLCs Fund 7.90 Artemis Investment Management Limited 6.14 AXA S. A.
9.93 Legal & General Group Plc 5.07 Marathon Asset Management LLP 7.62 Corporate governance A review of the companys application of the principles and provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 appears on pages 97 to 108.
Health, safety and environment Details of the companys approach to health, safety and environmental issues appears within the corporate responsibility report on pages 56 to 79.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditor to the company and to authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board David Turner Company Secretary 2 March 2010 87
