Business review At a glance Phase one 3 Stabilising performance Leased estate: Our first priority was to stabilise the performance of our existing estate and begin introducing changes to improve the transparency of our relationship with our Partners.
This coincided with the 6,841 pubs publication of the BEC Report which saw us move quickly to announce changes to our model, including the removal of the Partner machine share from the rent calculation and upward only The leased business model continues rent reviews, the passing on of negative RPI rent reviews, the removal of restrictive covenants and the introduction of a price to evolve as we focus on long term match commitment on our insurance premiums.
sustainable value creation for We recognised the impact that the recession was having on ourselves and our Partners.
A key our Partners and, as a result, reorganised our priorities to focus on providing targeted support and performance improvement.
element of this is our commitment to We created a Turnaround Division comprising c. 1,250 pubs which develop more open and transparent faced the most severe local market conditions.
This helped us to provide dedicated operations support whilst identifying the options relationships with our Partners.
By the end of the year, we had successfully disposed of 740 pubs, the majority of which were from the Turnaround Division, and we also identified c. 450 further pubs to be transferred The business has embarked on to Turnaround.
It has also released our teams in the core estate to a strategic change programme called focus on providing targeted support to help our Partners succeed.
Pathway to Partnership, setting Phase two ourselves the ambitious goal of Creating the platform for growth becoming the most trusted and best This involves reviewing all aspects of our business model, to create the platform on which we respond to changing consumer value pub partnership business in demands and grow in partnership with our Partners.
This programme is designed with a detailed assessment of the market potential for each of our pubs together with the calibre of our Partners.
It will involve in three phases: the development of a new agreement improving transparency of the tied model, with a focus on incentivising growth.
Phase three Sustainable value creation Phase three is about making sure that we deliver sustainable long term value for our investors and our Partners.
It is about making sure that we have a clear consumer vision for each pub and that we recruit the right Partners to run every pub.
It is about providing Creating Sustainable the best in everything needed to operate a successful pub so that Stabilising the platform value we can attract the best Partners.
It is about shifting our focus performance for growth creation to sustainable Partner earning and building a solid reputation for transparent, open and fair relations.
It is about Punch Partnerships becoming the most trusted and best value pub partnership business and the preferred choice for anyone seeking to run Phase one Phase two Phase three their own pub.
com Roger Whiteside Managing Director Punch Partnerships Leased estate 6,841 pubs Partner relationships Partner training We recognise that in the current economic climate, our Following feedback from our Partners, we relaunched our award Partners need more support than ever.
Over the last financial winning training offer.
Your Development Portfolio is the only year, we have invested over 1.6m a month supporting our programme of its kind in the industry to link Partner training with Partners through a range of rent concessions, discounts and the one to one meetings Partners have with their BRMs.
As well as the five day Foundation For Success FFS programme We have also strengthened our relationships through a concerted covering all of the key basics in food hygiene, legislation and focus on Business Relationship Managers BRMs spending more finance, the portfolio also includes one to one training where time in trade with their Partners providing consultancy business specialist licensed trade consultants spend time with our Partner support.
We relaunched our Flying Start programme to give our in their own pub looking at cellar training, stock management, Partners the best possible start when taking on a pub, so that marketing and team management.
As part of our commitment they receive quality support from their BRM, who meets them to ensure the capability of our Partners, we have built in a 600 every four weeks during the crucial first six months of trading.
cash back incentive for those who complete the course.
Business development In response to changing market dynamics, we are committed to providing our Partners with the tools to grow and diversify their businesses.
We have invested over 30m in redeveloping 500 of our pubs and have expanded our Finest Cask scheme to offer a wider choice of real ales.
We have also supported our Partners in launching or developing their food offer.
From the appointment of eight dedicated Catering Executives to the launch of fully packaged food offers including Table Top and Coffee and Wi-Fi, we are dedicated to helping our Partners build sustainable businesses for the future.
For more information visit: www.
com 07 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Over the last 12 months our Partners have completed 4,627 days of training.
Our Goal: To be the most trusted and best value pub partnership business in the UK.
