Business review At a glance continued The Circle of Success Managed estate: A motivated team create a great experience 835 pubs Under new leadership and direction, Best for Best for Team Guest the managed business has focused Recruitment, retention, Product, service, relationships environment on putting strong foundations in Operational place to deliver its future potential.
Excellence Punch Pub Company has made a number of key improvements over Allows us to Best for Satisfied guests reinvest in our pubs Investors create and our team Sales, margin, the last 12 months and now has a repeat visits profit growth and new guests robust strategy in place to drive sales, margin and profit growth, focused around the Circle of Success.
Premium Pub Restaurants 135 pubs Value Pub Restaurants 225 pubs Spread across a range of prime locations, Incorporating our 74 Wacky Warehouse our Premium Pub Restaurants include playbarns and well known concepts the Chef & Brewer concept and offer such as Two For One, our price led a quality dining experience in traditional pub restaurants deliver great value and contemporary pub settings.
Our and consistent service and facilities.
guests have high expectations and The offer competes against well known a passion for quality food and drink.
chains to attract a guest who expects We deliver freshly prepared dishes, high levels of customer service but is with a home cooked feel, using a not prepared to pay over the odds.
range of seasonal British produce.
Our menus are focused on delivering what our guests are looking for with a healthy choice for children.
City and Premium Pubs 137 pubs Neighbourhood Pubs 306 pubs Our City and Premium Pubs serve guests Providing a home from home for the local who live, work and play in the city community, our neighbourhood pubs and provide memorable experiences cater for a wide range of guests looking for tourists and visitors looking for an for an opportunity to relax, eat, drink authentic, traditional pub experience.
and enjoy an evening socialising with Occupying prime locations and landmark friends.
Aimed at a market of 21 years sites, these pubs are great places to and older, these pubs have a community meet friends, colleagues and clients, feel and provide an alternative to a home consistently delivering reliable service cooked meal with a good quality menu and quality products.
Note: 32 pubs do not fall into our core concepts.
com Mike Tye Managing Director Punch Pub Company Managed estate 835 pubs Our Goal: To become and remain the best managed pub business in the UK.
Best for Team Best for Investors We firmly believe that a well motivated team will deliver Delivering strong sales, margins and profit growth will mean consistently great guest experiences.
Over the last 12 months, that we can reinvest in our teams and our pubs.
We undertook we have focused on recruiting and retaining the best quality a comprehensive estate review and consumer research, to people within the industry, in our pub, operations and support gain detailed information to shape our current estate plan and teams.
We increased the calibre of our management teams, identify our future concept portfolio.
We have developed several through the introduction of new blueprint structures in all our new concepts to pilot and successful concepts will be rapidly pubs and the creation of General Manager, Deputy General rolled out.
Manager and Duty Manager roles.
We have also reduced Team Player turnover by an impressive 34% in the year with an ambitious At the same time, we reviewed our investment strategy to target to reduce turnover even further within the next 12 months.
ensure that we generate sufficient returns.
We halted major Only a stable team can deliver consistently great results.
capital expenditure projects, spending money only on new concept development, and increased spend on repairs to improve the overall quality of our estate.
Best for Guest The business has a renewed focus on costs whilst simultaneously driving a stronger sales growth mentality.
Cost control has focused on reducing our cost of goods, especially in relation Satisfied guests create repeat visits and advocacy, which will in to food and utilities.
Activity has focused to date on primarily improving our existing concepts, in terms of service enhancements, Every pub has a dedicated sales plan, supporting central menu transformation and capacity management.
At the same marketing activity including the aggressive promotion of time we have remapped our concept portfolio to develop exciting Key Value Items.
We have set up an email club for every pub new consumer offers for the future.
Our guest experience is driven and a new consumer website, www.
com, will by Operational Excellence, which gives us the foundations to allow pubs to communicate directly with their local communities deliver and measure consistently great guest experiences.
Operational Excellence At the heart of our Circle of Success, Operational Excellence will It is about ensuring our pub teams do the right things in the right deliver further value to our investors by consistently providing what way, with the right measures, supported by business leading our guests want through releasing the potential of our teams.
There are eight Operational Excellence Hardlines which outline the must do activities and ways of working.
Launched in March 2009, Operational Excellence is a major change management programme which will transform the mindset of the Operational Excellence is the driving force behind the Circle of 17,000 people in our pubs.
Success, ensuring that we deliver the best for our team, best for our guests and ultimately, the best for our investors.
For more information visit: www.
com 09 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business review
