Governance Directors report The Directors present their annual report to shareholders on the There are no special provisions contained in any of the Directors affairs of the Group and the Company together with the audited contracts for loss of office beyond normal contractual obligations: financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2009. further details of Directors contracts are contained within the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 38 to 50 of this report.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided in other appropriate sections of the full Annual Report and The procedure for the appointment, replacement and reelection Financial Statements 2009.
These include the Business review, of Directors and the role of the Nominations Committee is the Corporate governance and Remuneration reports, and the disclosed in the Corporate governance statement on pages 34 to Group financial statements and these are, accordingly, incorporated 37 of this report.
into this Directors report by reference.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Peter Results and dividends Cawdron, Mike Foster and Ian Fraser will retire by rotation and The results of the Group for the period are set out in the offer themselves for reelection at the Companys Annual General Consolidated income statement on page 52.
As announced on Meeting AGM to be held on 16 December 2009.
14 October 2009 the Directors will not be proposing the payment of a final dividend.
The beneficial interests of Directors, who held office at 22 August 2009, in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
Equity raise At At At During the year the Company raised 375 million through the issue 13 October 22 August 23 August of 375,000,000 new ordinary shares under a Firm Placing and 2009 2009 2008 Placing and Open Offer which was approved by shareholders at Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary shares shares shares the General Meeting on 3 July 2009.
Joint bookrunners entered into arrangements to conditionally place 187,500,000 Firm Placing Peter Cawdron 29,018 29,018 4,850 shares at a price of 100 pence per Firm Placing share.
Qualifying Giles Thorley 502,217 502,217 293,784 shareholders were then invited to apply to acquire Open Offer Phil Dutton 52,633 52,633 30,000 shares at a price of 100 pence per Open Offer share on the basis Mike Tye 25,885 25,885 of 7.0203 Open Offer shares for every 10 existing ordinary shares Roger Whiteside 25,885 25,885 held.
Any Open Offer shares not taken up by the qualifying Fritz Ternofsky 21,050 21,050 6,337 shareholders in the Open Offer were then subscribed for by Mike Foster 7,276 7,276 4,275 shareholders who had subscribed for the Firm Placing shares.
Ian Fraser 29,177 29,177 Principal activity and review of the business Mark Pain 29,177 29,177 The Groups main trading activities are the operation of public Ian Wilson 60,422 60,422 35,500 houses under either the leased model or as directly managed by Tony Rice 503,016 503,016 16,364 the Group.
The leased model involves the granting of leases to tenants who operate the pub as their own business, paying rent None of the Directors have any other interests in the shares to the Group, purchasing beer and other drinks from the Group or other securities of the Company or of any other company in and entering into profit sharing arrangements for income from the Group.
Pubs that are directly managed involve the employment of a manager to operate each managed pub and the A statement of the Directors remuneration and their interest in Group receives all revenues generated by the pub and is responsible share options of the Company is set out in the Report on Directors for costs.
A review of the years activities and future developments, and Directors conflicts of interests information on the risks and uncertainties faced by the Group, During the year, the Board has continued to review the interests are included in the Business review.
The management of business of the directors and their connected persons and has authorised risk is set out in the Corporate governance and Risk statements.
any interests which conflicted or potentially conflicted with the Key performance indicators KPIs are shown on page 1. interests of the Company.
The Nominations Committee will continue to conduct periodic reviews of conflict authorisations to Directors and their interests determine whether the authorisation given should continue, be The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 28 to 29. added to or be revoked by the Board.
During the year the following changes in directorate took place: Deborah Kemp left the Board on 21 October 2008 and Jonathan Paveley left the Board on 29 January 2009.
Roger Whiteside was appointed to the Board on 3 November 2008.
31 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance Governance Directors report continued Directors indemnity The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
adequately fulfilled by handicapped or disabled persons.
The Group On 26 February 2006 a subsidiary company within the Group: continues to be supportive of the employment of disabled persons Punch Taverns PGE Limited granted indemnity cover for the in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, provided that they benefit of the Groups Directors and officers.
The indemnity is can be employed in a safe working environment.
Where existing uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever which they may incur to third parties in the course of acting as practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms a Director or officer of the Group and was in effect during the and conditions.
financial year and continues to date.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or officer The environment is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of responsible standards as integral to its business Substantial shareholdings operation.
It is also committed to introducing measures to limit As at 13 October 2009, being the last business day prior to the any adverse effects its business may have on the environment and publication of this report, the Company has been notified of the will promote continuous improvement in accordance with best following substantial interests representing 3% or more in the available techniques.
ordinary shares of the Company.
Employee involvement Shareholding made up of: The total number of employees at the end of the period was Contracts Total 17,625.
The Group recognises the value of its employees and Total Ordinary Convertible for return Shareholder holding shares bond difference swaps seeks to create an energetic, dynamic and responsive environment in which to work.
It places considerable importance on Glenview Capital communications with employees which take place at many levels Management 8.00% 1.76% 0.40% 5.84% through the organisation on both a formal and informal level.
D. E. Shaw 7.02% 1.86% 5.15% Credit Suisse 6.14% 6.08% 0.06% Employees are encouraged to own shares in the Company and Standard Life 5.95% 5.95% the Group operates an HMRC Approved Share Incentive Plan GLG Partners LP 5.01% 2.75% 2.26% SIP, in which 757 employees in total participate.
Employees Glenhill Capital purchase shares either as a one-off amount or on a monthly basis Partnership shares.
These are then held in trust for a period of Management 4.91% 4.91% three years at which point the Company matches the total number Maverick Capital 4.87% 3.53% 1.34% of shares purchased on a 1:1 basis Matching shares.
After Norges Bank 4.18% 4.18% a period of five years i. e. a further two years the Matching shares Deutsche Bank 3.99% 3.99% are released to the employee free of tax and National Insurance.
Legal & General 3.97% 3.97% David Einhorn Creditor payment policy and practice Greenlight 3.72% 3.72% It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in Barclays plc 3.45% 3.45% accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At 22 August 2009 Political and charitable contributions the Company had nil 2008: nil days purchases outstanding During the year the Group made charitable contributions of in trade creditors.
A percentage of which went to the BEN: the Benevolent Society of the Licensed Trade of Scotland, Financial instruments and the Licensed Trade Charity both of which help and care for The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out former and current members of the licensed trade financially and in note 22 to the financial statements.
in other ways as much as is practicable.
During the year the Group also made a payment of 30,000 to The Punch Community Spirit Significant agreements Project for onward contributions to charities and various good The Company is a party to 275m 5.0% convertible bonds which causes.
Further details of The Punch Community Spirit Project can contain a provision whereby, upon a change of control event, be found in the earlier section of this report.
The Group made holders of the convertible bonds may exchange or redeem their no political contributions during the year.
bonds at a pre-determined exchange price as set out in the bond documentation.
Further details of the convertible bonds can be Disabled employees found on page 21 of this report.
The Group is committed to promoting diversity across the Group.
To this end, the Group is committed to providing equal The Company is also party to certain non-material agreements opportunities in recruitment, promotion, career development, including trust deeds relating to the Companys employee share training and reward to all employees without discrimination.
incentive plans that do contain change of control provisions in the event of the takeover of the Company but these are not considered to be significant on an individual basis.
com Additional information for shareholders are beneficially owned by employees, attract voting rights and are In accordance with the EU Takeovers Directive as implemented eligible for dividends.
The voting rights in respect of these shares into UK law, the following provides the required information for are exercised by the trustees of behalf of the employees.
The shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
Company also operates a Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSB for certain senior employees.
When applicable, 25% of the senior At 22 August 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised employees bonus is awarded in shares Bonus Shares which are a single class of shares known as ordinary shares.
The share capital held in a General Trust for a qualifying period and attract full disclosures in note 25 to the accounts contain full details of shares dividend and voting rights which are exercisable by the employees allotted or purchased during the year and an explanation of should they wish.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire movements in share capital during the year.
the Partnership or Bonus Shares, employees are entitled to direct the trustees to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on In a general meeting of the Company on a show of hands every their behalf.
member who is present in person and proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person The Company is not aware of any agreements between and proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of holder.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation securities or on voting rights.
In addition, there are no people to their holdings provided that each proxy does not vote in relation holding securities that carry special rights with regard to control to the same shares.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines of the Company.
for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the forthcoming The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM AGM, a special resolution will be put to the shareholders proposing to buy back up to 26,661,883 shares representing approximately further amendments to the existing Articles of Association in 10% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue as at 28 November order to take account of the coming into force of The Companies 2008.
The authority will only be exercised by the Directors after Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 and the implementation giving due consideration to the effects on earnings per share on 1 October 2009 of the last parts of the Companies Act 2006. and the benefits for shareholders generally and will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM where new authority to buy back Post balance sheet events up to 64,236,955 shares representing approximately 10% of the Subsequent to the year end the Group has repurchased 292.9m Companys ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the AGM of the nominal value of outstanding debt.
Further details of notice will be sought.
these transactions are contained within note 35 to the financial statements.
Authority will also be sought at the forthcoming AGM for Directors to allot up to 214,123,183 shares in the Company Directors statement as to disclosure of information representing approximately one third of the Companys ordinary to auditors shares in issue as at the date of the AGM notice.
This will replace The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no the authority granted by shareholders at the Companys General relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware Meeting held on 3 July 2009.
The Board will also seek authority to and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make disapply pre-emption rights over 32,118,478 shares representing themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish approximately 5% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue as at that the auditors are aware of that information.
the date of the AGM notice.
Auditors Further details of the above resolutions are contained within the A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders with this report.
auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
There are no restrictions on transfer of shares in the Company Going concern other than those which may from time to time be applicable The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have under existing laws and regulations for example under the Market adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable Abuse Directive.
future and have therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparation of the financial statements.
Full details of In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial this can be found in the capital structure section of the operating Services Authority, Directors and persons discharging managerial review.
responsibility PDMRs of the Company require prior approval from the Company to deal in the Companys securities, and are By order of the Board of Directors prohibited from dealing during close periods.
Neil Preston The Company operates various share schemes which involve Company Secretary employee ownership of Company securities.
The Punch Taverns 13 October 2009 Share Incentive Plan SIP involves the use of an Employee Benefit Trust, into which employee purchased shares Partnership Shares are held on Trust for a qualifying period.
During this time the shares 33 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Governance
