Business review Market overview Operating in a challenging market The credit crunch and economic downturn resulted in a recession during 2009 which has presented challenging market conditions for the retail and leisure sectors.
Competition remains fierce and although consumers have enjoyed a year of discounts, sales and offers that has seen their money go further than ever before, confidence remains low.
Laying the foundations Success for the retail and leisure sector is being determined by their for success ability to respond, with pace, to the changing market conditions and provide offers which deliver great guest experiences and value.
Aware of the challenges, we refocused our plans and strategy early Howard Ferrier of The Boot, Tamworth completed on to ensure that we were in the strongest position to weather the Foundation For Success programme FFS which the storm.
covers all of the key basics in marketing, legislation and finance as well as one to one in pub training.
A number of major retailers have been unsuccessful and familiar names have disappeared from our high streets.
At the same time, Howard said: I genuinely found the course very our Partners have faced continuing pressure: economic conditions constructive, helpful and well presented.
It was as have accelerated the rate at which pubs, restaurants and bars are much about learning how not to do things as well closing.
This combination will mean fewer, better pubs competing as how to.
for more customers in the future and we have been quick to respond to these changing market dynamics.
An evolving industry The economic climate has proved to be a catalyst for change within the pub industry and the last 12 months have seen the beginning of an evolution which will continue to shape the sector.
The economic downturn has impacted pub businesses in much the same way as all retail and leisure businesses.
Many individual operators have struggled to maintain performance and pub companies have had to invest larger sums of money to support their licensees.
The recession and the continuing effect of the smoking ban have impacted further on declining beer volumes and highlighted the need for pubs to diversify and develop their consumer proposition if they are to succeed.
Punch Partnerships, Foundation For Success.
The pub sector has been further impacted by the publication of the Business and Enterprise Committee BEC Report into pub companies in July 2009.
The BEC Report identified a number of key themes that we had already started to address.
We had already recognised the need for our leased business model to evolve and have subsequently introduced a number of changes to the way that we operate.
We have also embarked on a major business change programme, which will see a cultural shift and a focus on ensuring joint profitability for Punch and our Partners.
com We adopted a measured approach to the outcome of the report and the subsequent media interest and industry debate.
We recognised the need to present a united front and played an active role in bringing key industry players together to improve standards and develop a new Code of Practice.
Regulation The Licensing Act Scotland 2004, which came into force in All hands on deck September 2009, has completed licensing reform throughout the UK.
Licensed premises now have the opportunity to be more flexible than ever before with regard to the hours they trade and it is crucial that they have the opportunity to embrace this to Partner, Jas Bhatt, and Punch have worked together ensure the future of the industry.
to bring a much missed venue back to a World Heritage site.
The village of Saltaire was built by Titus The Government is continuing to look at proposals to increase Salt for workers of the mill in the 1800s and was industry legislation and some Local Authorities are considering famously dry, but now Punch and Jas are bringing implementing blanket licensing conditions.
Punch believes that the back the pub.
industry now has robust legislation in place to ensure that it trades responsibly and that Local Authorities already have the appropriate The Boathouse in Saltaire suffered two devastating powers to act.
With a dramatic 500,000 rebuild and an entrepreneurial Partner at the helm, the pub now Further regulation with its associated costs and red tape may prove has an exciting future ahead.
too much for many operators and lead to further pub closures.
We will continue to work with the industry to ensure that future legislation is only implemented after careful consideration.
Punch has acted positively in response to this changing industry landscape, working to support our Partners and exploit new opportunities as they emerge.
Aware of the challenges, we have set our sights on the future.
We will ensure that our leased estate provides an attractive proposition for entrepreneurs entering the industry and that our managed pubs are great places for our team to work, providing memorable experiences for our guests and delivering high returns for investors.
05 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 We have successfully managed today, whilst actively planning for the future.
