Business review Managing today, planning for tomorrow Our vision To be the pre-eminent pub group in the UK: lean, innovative Our business and dynamic: constantly striving to provide a great service to our pubs, our Partners licensees and our colleagues, driven by a passion for excellence in everything we do.
Our objective To continue to maximise the long term shareholder value of the Group, through developing the best quality estate in the industry, building successful long term partnerships with our Partners and driving Operational Excellence in our managed business.
Our goals Ensure that every site delivers to its full potential Our business model helps us to maximise the profitability of each site, ensuring that we offer the right retail proposition, in the right marketplace with the right pub and the right people.
Create profitable and sustainable pub businesses Working in partnership with our employees, suppliers, In June 2009, we brought our operating businesses together Partners and pub teams we will continue to unleash the profit under the Punch Taverns umbrella.
As a result, we renamed our opportunities within our estate, providing full support to all managed division Punch Pub Company and our leased business of our businesses, with the ultimate aim of driving value for Punch Partnerships.
The new names and identities signify the our shareholders.
coming together of both businesses and were timed to coincide with the opening of our new, low carbon support centre building Maximising the potential of our estate in Burton upon Trent.
Our programme of ongoing investment will continue to improve the quality of our portfolio and will review Each operating business has a clearly focused strategy designed opportunities to acquire and dispose of properties in to maximise shareholder value and realise synergies across the our quest to realise the best value from our estate.
estate, in terms of negotiating better value supplier deals and in transferring knowledge and skills.
Punch Partnerships Punch Partnerships is our leased division, comprising 6,841 pubs nationwide.
Building successful, lasting partnerships is at the heart of our strategy.
We have focused on supporting our Partners through a difficult year whilst making plans to evolve our business model to deliver a strong leased proposition in a changing industry.
Punch Pub Company Punch Pub Company is our managed division, comprising 835 pubs nationwide.
Formerly known as Spirit Group, our managed business includes some of the best quality managed pubs in the UK.
Throughout the year we have focused on putting strong foundations in place to unleash our future potential.
com Total estate 7,676 pubs Strategic priorities What we said What we did Strengthen operational management Both sides of the business now have experienced new leaders in place and the organisation has been refocused and streamlined to drive operational performance.
Stabilise operating performance Within the leased estate, we have enhanced the level of support offered to Partners, while in the managed estate our value proposition has been strengthened and our Operational Excellence programme has been launched.
Improve cash flow Increased through a reduction in support centre costs, a more focused capital expenditure programme and the acceleration of the disposal of underperforming or non core assets.
Reduce debt The increased cash flow has been used to reduce debt levels.
During the year, 708m of debt has been repaid at a cost of 473m.
For more information visit: www.
com 03 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Punch is the UKs leading RecRuiting pub company with a and Retaining a HigH calibRe team portfolio of 7,676 pubs across our leased and managed estates.
tRansfORming OuR business fOR tHe futuRe dRiving OpeRatiOnal peRfORmance Business review
