Directors Report The directors are pleased to present the Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Group is the production and supply of multicrystalline silicon wafers to the worldwide photovoltaic market.
The Group supplies multicrystalline silicon wafers to some of the major photovoltaic cell makers in the world.
The Chairmans Statement and Business Review contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
Results for the year The Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31 December 2009 is shown on page 35.
The movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown on page 37 and segmental information is shown in note 8 on pages 49 and 50.
Proposed dividend An interim dividend of 0.02 per ordinary share was paid on 21 October 2009.
The directors have recommended a final dividend in respect of the current financial year of 0.02 per ordinary share to be paid on 9 June 2010 to shareholders on the register on 14 May 2010.
This dividend is payable in cash in Sterling and will be converted from Euros into Sterling at the forward exchange quoted by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group at 11.00am on 1 June 2010.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
The total dividend for the year is 0.04 per ordinary share 2008: 0.06. Business review The Group is required by the Companies Act to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year Business Review and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information concerning the Business Review can be found on pages 4 to 9 and the description of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 17 to 19.
The Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group.
Post balance sheet events As described in note 35 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Trustees of the PV Crystalox Solar PLC Employee Benefit Trust purchased 5,000,000 of the Companys ordinary shares between 11 January 2010 and 19 January 2010.
Summary of key performance indicators The Group monitors the performance of each of its business units through detailed monthly operational and financial reporting, with comparisons to plan.
Updated business forecasts are regularly made.
In addition, the Group maintains regular reviews and dialogue with each of the Groups operational business units.
At Board level, the most important key performance measures are: megawatts peak output equivalent from wafers produced: revenue: earnings before interest and tax EBIT : net cash from operating activities: free cash flow, defined using the cash flow statement as net cash from operating activities less cash used in investing activities less interest received: EBIT excluding currency gains and losses as a percentage of revenue EBIT margin excluding currency gains : and basic earnings per share.
Comparative performance in the current year and prior year is summarised as follows: 2009 2008 Megawatt peak output equivalent 239MW 230MW Revenue 237.3m 274.1m EBIT 41.7m 142.8m Net cash from operating activities 3.5m 89.0m Free cash flow 3.3m 22.9m EBIT margin excluding currency gains 21.1% 38.8% Basic earnings per share euro cents 7.2 25.2 Free cash flow is defined using the cash flow statement as net cash from operating activities less cash used in investment activities less interest received.
12 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Future developments for the business outlook The Boards assessment and evaluation of future development and the outlook for the business is discussed in the Business Review which can be found on pages 4 to 9.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are discussed in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section which can be found on pages 17 to 19.
Financial instruments Financial instruments comprise borrowings, internal cash resources, trade receivables and trade payables arising from normal trading.
The Groups borrowings are in Japan and are utilised to finance the Groups working capital requirement in respect of its business activity in Japan.
Environmental policy The environmental policy is discussed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Statement which can be found on pages 26 and 27.
Directors The names of the directors who served during any part of the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2009 are: Maarten Henderson Chairman Chairman of the nomination committee Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Dr Iain Dorrity Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director Dr Peter Finnegan Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director Dr Hubert Aulich Executive Director, German Operations John Sleeman Senior Independent Director Chairman of the audit committee Chairman of the remuneration committee Member of the nomination committee Nonexecutive Directors.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 10 and 11.
All the directors served throughout the year.
Key appointment Michael Parker was appointed as a Nonexecutive Director effective from 1 January 2010 and was appointed as a member of the audit committee, the nomination committee and the remuneration committee at the Board meeting on 28 January 2010.
His biographical details are set on page 10.
Retirement and re-election of directors The rules governing the appointment and retirement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and they require all directors to seek reelection by shareholders at least once every three years.
At the 2010 AGM, Maarten Henderson, Iain Dorrity, Peter Finnegan, Hubert Aulich and John Sleeman will retire automatically as they have all held office for three years and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reelection.
Michael Parker, who was appointed during the year, will retire and offer himself for election.
Beneficial interests in significant contracts None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Group or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 13 Directors Report continued Substantial shareholders As at 11 March 2010 the Group had been notified, or is aware, of the following shareholdings amounting to 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of % of issued ordinary ordinary shares shares Schroder Investment Management Ltd 46,368,361 11.13 Dr Iain Dorrity 44,085,974 10.58 Barry Garrard 41,881,642 10.05 Stuart Oldham 26,718,750 6.41 Graham Young 14,037,110 3.37 Share capital The authorised share capital and allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown in note 28 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
There were no changes to the number of shares during the year and up to the date of this report.
As at the date of this report, 416.7 million ordinary shares of 2 pence each were allotted, called up and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 12.3 million.
The Company has a single class of share capital, which are ordinary shares of 2 pence each, full details of rights accorded to the holders of these ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares have the rights accorded to them under UK Company law, including the right to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, attend and speak at general meetings, appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys employee share plans.
The trust has an independent trustee which waives its rights to dividends on the shareholding.
Details of employee share schemes and shares held by the PV Crystalox Solar PLC Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 29 of the Notes to the consolidated financial statements.
In respect of the Companys share capital there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares, no limitations are placed on the holding of shares and prior approval is not required from the Company or from other holders of shares for a transfer.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and of the Articles of Association, the Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends to be paid to members according to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the Company.
However, no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may declare and pay such interim dividends as appears to the Board to be justified by the profits of the Company available for distribution.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amount paid up on the shares.
The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to allocate further shares up to a maximum of 2,778,169, which was approximately 33% of the issued share capital on 15 April 2009.
No ordinary shares were allocated during the period from the AGM to the date of this report.
This authority will expire at the 2010 AGM and approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting for a similar authority to be given for a further year.
The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to make market purchases of up to 41,672,533 of its own ordinary shares.
The Company did not make any purchases of its own ordinary shares during the period from the AGM to the date of this report.
However, as is disclosed in note 35, the Companys Employee Benefit Trust purchased 5,000,000 ordinary shares in January 2010.
Approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting for a similar authority to be given for a further year.
Articles of Association Any alteration to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with applicable UK legislation.
As detailed in the Letter from the Chairman and the Notice of Meeting for the AGM the Company is proposing, subject to shareholder approval, certain amendments to the Articles of Association to enable provisions in the Companies Act 2006 and the Shareholder Rights Directive to be included.
14 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Review of the year Corporate governance Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Directors interests Listed below are the directors at 31 December 2009 together with their notifiable interests in the share capital of the Company: Number Maarten Henderson Nil Iain Dorrity 44,085,974 Hubert Aulich 11,355,469 Peter Finnegan 2,671,912 John Sleeman Nil Directors indemnity and insurance In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has provided to all the directors an indemnity to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, and the Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those liabilities.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Going concern The directors are confident, having reviewed management accounts, forecasts and customer contracts and after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the accounts.
Policy on the payment of creditors Individual companies within the Group operate different creditor payment policies.
In Germany it is policy to take advantage of prompt payment discounts where offered, which are typically discounts of 2% or 3% for payment within ten days, otherwise standard terms are an average of 30 days net: in the United Kingdom and Japan payment is made in line with standard terms, which are an average of 45 days.
Employees The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
The Group recognises that its operation and reputation depends upon the skill and effectiveness of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of age, sex, religion, sexual orientation, race, nationality or ethnic origin.
Disabled employees It is the Groups policy to give sympathetic consideration to the recruitment, continuing employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons.
In the event that a person became disabled he or she would continue to be employed, wherever possible, in the same job.
If the degree of disablement made this impractical, every effort would be made to find suitable alternative employment and to give any appropriate training.
The Groups policy on training and career progression applies equally to everyone within the Group whether or not disabled.
Donations During the period under review the Group made charitable donations of 5,930 2008: 4,330.
It is the Groups policy not to make general political donations.
No political donations were made in the period 2008: nil.
Research and development The Group spent 8.4 million 2008: 6.2 million on research and development during the year in the field of continuous production process optimisation and improvement and adaptation of products to market requirements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 PV Crystalox Solar PLC 15 Directors Report continued Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of one of the Group subsidiary companies such as commercial supplier and customer contracts.
There is no individual contractual arrangement that is considered to be essential to the continuing operation of the Group.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Disclosure of information to auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Grant Thornton UK LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditor for the ensuing year will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 2HA on Thursday 27 May 2010 at 2.00pm.
The Letter from the Chairman and Notice of Meeting document give full details of the AGM and the resolutions to be proposed.
By order of the Board MAtthEW WEthEy GRouP SECREtARy 24 March 2010 16 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
