20 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Report of the Directors Business review Revenue Operating profit before m exceptional items Europe m The new Personal Wash Centre of Excellence at Agecroft, Manchester, opened on schedule in 2009 2009 288.1 40.9 February and the UK business is now benefiting from 2008 2008 2007 235.8 2007 32.6 having the manufacturing, perfumery and research 217.8 30.3 and development facilities co-located on one site.
Regional highlights In the UK, trading has been strong with like-for-like sales excluding The Sanctuary up 7.5% versus the prior year and profitability also ahead.
This has been achieved despite the difficult economic environment which saw negotiations with retailers becoming tougher and consumers focusing much more on the price in store.
With a strategy of local brands for local markets, the UK business has been able to tailor both the price and the product to suit the economic conditions in the UK market.
This has been supported by a brand renovation programme which continues to see the launch of a higher number of new products compared to the competition.
The Imperial Leather range was completely relaunched with a refreshed look and exciting new fragrances.
The Original Source brand continued to perform well and the range was extended with a new mens range of products.
The Charles Worthington haircare brand maintained its number two position in the professional haircare market Robust performance in the UK with the number and saw the launch of a Time Defy range of one position in the personal wash category products.
Carex has continued to maintain maintained through a continued brand renovation its number one position as the UKs leading programme antibacterial handwash with the range of waterless hand gels performing particularly Profitable growth delivered by The Sanctuary in well in a climate where there is additional its first full year within the Group consumer focus on hand hygiene.
Overall, the UK business has maintained its number one The 26 million manufacturing facility and position in the UKs personal wash category.
innovation centre in Manchester completed on schedule in February and now fully operational The new Personal Wash Centre of Excellence Strong performance in Greece through new at Agecroft, Manchester, opened on schedule product launches and bolt on acquisitions in February and the UK business is now benefiting from having the manufacturing, perfumery and research and development facilities co-located on one site.
The additional capacity provided by the factory will enable the business to respond quickly and efficiently to additional demand from the market.
A further manufacturing line will be installed in September enabling some products which are currently out-sourced to third parties to be brought in-house.
The vacant sites in Nottingham and Ellesmere Port continue to be marketed and are expected to be sold when the property market recovers.
Minerva is a brand with a great deal of history and heritage in Greece.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
