36 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37 Report of the Directors Board of Directors Report of the Directors & Accounts Executive Directors: In this section Anthony Green Chairman age 58 Mr Green was appointed an Executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in 1990 and became Chairman of the company in 1993.
He has worked in a number of senior positions for the company in Africa, Asia and the UK and prior to his appointment to the Board was Regional Director for Asia.
Mr Green is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the CSR Committee.
Report of the Directors Accounts Graham Calder Deputy Chairman age 62 Report of the Directors 38 Independent auditors report Having qualified as a chartered accountant in 1970, Mr Calder worked for Spicer and Pegler in Manchester, becoming Managing Group 53 Report on Directors remuneration 41 Partner for the North West Regional offices in 1987 and remaining with the company through the merger with Touche Ross and Consolidated income statement 54 Corporate governance 47 subsequent change to Deloitte & Touche where he was partner in charge of the Manchester office.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1996 Consolidated statement of Statement of Directors and was appointed to the Board in 1998 as Finance Director, becoming Deputy Chairman in 2006. recognised income and expense 55 responsibilities 52 Consolidated balance sheet 56 Consolidated cash flow statement 57 Alex Kanellis Group Chief Executive age 44 Notes to the consolidated Mr Kanellis has a PhD in mechanical engineering.
He was appointed Managing Director of the financial statements 58 Groups business in Thailand in 1998 before becoming Managing Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He was appointed to the Board in Five year financial record 89 2003 as Regional Director of Asia becoming Chief Executive in June 2006.
Mr Kanellis is a member of the Nomination, Group Risk Independent auditors report and CSR Committees.
Company 90 Company balance sheet 91 Notes to the Company Chris Davis Commercial Director age 47 financial statements 92 After working in senior Sales & Marketing roles for various Consumer Goods companies, Mr Davis joined PZ Cussons from the Further statutory and BTR Nylex Group in 1993 and became Managing Director of the Groups business in Australia in 2001.
He was appointed to the other information 96 Board in 2006 as Regional Director of Africa and became Group Commercial Director in 2008.
Mr Davis is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
Brandon Leigh Group Finance Director age 38 Mr Leigh qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte & Touche in 1996.
He joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 2006.
Mr Leigh is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
John Pantelireis Supply Chain Director age 55 Mr Pantelireis was appointed an Executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in 2005 and is a member of the Group Risk and CSR Committees.
He has worked in a variety of senior positions for PZ Cussons both in Nigeria and the UK and spent three years as Supply Chain Development Director prior to his appointment to the Board.
Independent Non-executive Directors: Derek Lewis age 64 Mr Lewis has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since June 2004.
A retired solicitor and former partner of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, Mr Lewis specialised throughout his professional career in advising on corporate and commercial matters.
Mr Lewis is the Senior Non-executive Director and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Professor John Arnold age 65 John Arnold is Emeritus Professor of Accounting and Financial Management at Manchester Business School and has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since January 2007.
A chartered accountant and Chairman of Manchester Business School Incubator Limited, his previous experience includes spending 12 years as Director and Dean of Manchester Business School.
Professor Arnold is currently Chairman of the Co-operative Performance Committee of Co-operatives UK, a Director of the Greater Manchester Chamber, Chairman of Feelgood Theatre Productions and an academic adviser to Ashridge and to IBS-ISCTE Business School in Lisbon.
Professor Arnold is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Simon Heale age 56 Mr Heale was appointed a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc in January 2008 and is Chairman of the CSR Committee and a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
A chartered accountant, Mr Heale has worked in a variety of senior positions for multi-national companies in America and the Far East and spent five years as Chief Executive of the London Metal Exchange.
Mr Heale is now a Non-executive Director of The Morgan Crucible Company Ltd, Kazakhmys plc, Marex Financial and Panmure Gordon & Co Ltd. James Steel age 49 Mr Steel has been a Non-executive Director of PZ Cussons Plc since October 2005.
Mr Steel is currently Managing Director of Corporate Finance at Arbuthnot Securities Ltd.
He was previously a Managing Director of European investment banking at Citigroup and a Director in the corporate finance division of Schroders which he joined in 1986 after qualifying as a chartered accountant.
Mr Steel is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
