6 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 Overview Our strategy explained 1 2 S elected markets L eading brands We operate in selected markets that have the potential for future We develop leading brands for the markets in which we operate.
growth, both in mature and emerging markets.
Our presence Whilst some have global reach, the majority of our brands are across Africa, Asia and Europe ensures a naturally balanced sold only in local and regional markets as we create products portfolio of global markets, which we continually review to that are particularly suited to local needs and tastes.
Our ensure they provide the Group with the best opportunities for strategy is to grow these brands so they achieve category profitable growth.
We take pride in our knowledge of local leading positions in their markets and we continually review and markets which enables us to respond quickly and appropriately expand the categories in which we operate to ensure profitable to local needs.
We are proud of our portfolio of category leading brands which are developed to satisfy the particular needs of local consumers.
Africa Revenue Africa Asia Europe 415.0m Operating profit 39.5m Our African businesses continue to be well placed to react to any economic environment with products in the economy, mid and premium segments offering consumers a choice of PZ quality product across the price range.
The Group is involved in a wide range of products from personal care, fabric care and medicaments, through to white and brown electrical goods.
Asia Revenue 135.0m Operating profit 10.2m The Group has a wide variety of markets in Asia with operations in the Australian fabric care and dish wash market, the Thailand bar soap and personal care market and in the developing Indonesian market where it has a strong position in baby care.
Brand renovation programmes have strengthened In Indonesia, Cussons Baby extended its number In the UK, the Imperial Leather range was Europe Revenue the category leading positions in soaps, one position in the babycare category through completely re-launched with a fresh look detergents, skincare, hair care, baby care and the launch of Cussons First Years which is and exciting new fragrances.
The Haier-Thermocool brand a premium range, offering products for preWorthington maintained its number two 288.1m has continued to perform well, it is priced at natal, baby and toddler needs.
In Australia the position in professional hair care and saw the premium end and has been supported by category leading positions of the fabric care the launch of Time Defy range.
In Greece, Operating profit the unique after sales package and the addition and dish wash brands were maintained through the Minerva brand has been expanded with of two further HT Cool World retail outlets.
the continued brand renovation programme.
further launches of margarines and spreads 40.9m to complement the core range of oils.
The Burrino butter brand was also acquired.
The markets in Europe are diverse in both geography and product offering.
The UK business has leading positions in the mature personal care market and the professional hair care market and also operates the UKs largest day spa at The Sanctuary.
The Greek business is a leader in the olive oil and associated products category whilst operations in Poland serve the personal wash and fabric care markets.
Before exceptional items Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
