14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Report of the Directors Business review Revenue Operating profit before m exceptional items Africa m Both the personal care and home care divisions experienced strong revenue and profitability 2009 2009 415.0 39.5 growth in the year with brand renovation 2008 2008 33.6 programmes strengthening the category leading 309.1 2007 2007 positions in soaps, detergents, skincare, haircare, 26.1 252.9 babycare and medicaments.
Regional highlights Africa In Nigeria, the political environment has remained stable with the country now having experienced over a decade of democratic government.
Economically, whilst not totally immune from the global credit crunch, Nigeria has proved robust with continued positive macroeconomic growth.
Whilst the oil price has now fallen from record highs, it remains at a level that provides the country with adequate income to fund its slow but steady investment programme.
The impact on the Groups Nigerian business of the oil price drop is one of underlying falls in oil related raw material costs offset by a managed depreciation of the Naira.
The timing of raw material purchases together with levels of inventory holdings and wider supply chain management have been particularly challenging in the year.
PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc Within the Nigerian listed company, the Continued political and economic stability with Group operates its personal care and home Nigeria less impacted by the global care divisions as well as its supply chain and credit crunch distribution operations.
During the year, the Group increased its holding in the subsidiary Continued growth in all categories of Personal from 61% to 64% at a cost of 5.2 million.
Care, Home Care, Electricals and Nutrition Both the personal care and home care divisions The 39 million investment project in experienced strong revenue and profitability manufacturing and distribution facilities in Nigeria growth in the year with brand renovation well under way programmes strengthening the category Further electrical retail outlets opened taking the leading positions in soaps, detergents, total to four in Nigeria and one in Ghana skincare, haircare, babycare and medicaments.
The Nigerian business continues to be well placed to react to any economic environment with product offerings in the economy, mid and premium segments and thus giving the Nigerian consumer a choice of PZ quality product across the price range.
One of the Groups key strengths in Nigeria continues to be its supply chain and distribution operations.
In terms of inward supply chain, despite disruption to the port operations midway through the year, further reductions in clearance times have been achieved thus enabling more efficient transfer of raw materials from port through to the factories.
The new national distribution centre is almost complete and will enable more finished goods to be held centrally Accounts Report of the Directors Overview 16 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 Report of the Directors Business review Africa continued with lower stocks held at the 26 depots first factory, namely powdered and evaporated nationwide.
Overall, this will reduce total milk sold under the Nunu, Olympic and Coast finished goods levels and enable a quicker and brands are progressing well.
In addition, the more efficient replenishment of the depots.
portfolio has been enhanced with the launch PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc continues to act as of a new powdered yoghurt drink under the distributor for all of the following businesses: brand name Yo!.
Total revenue for the joint venture has now grown to 60.2 million.
A HPZ Ltd second factory has now been completed The electrical goods joint venture with Haier of which is a state of the art UHT facility, the first China, 74% owned by PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc, of its kind for Nigeria, and will manufacture has continued to experience strong revenue UHT milk and other long life drinks under the and profitability growth in the year.
The brand, current brand names.
This second factory Haier-Thermocool, continues to be priced at has now begun production and will gradually the premium end and is synonymous with increase volumes over the coming months.
quality for the Nigerian consumer.
In a market which is becoming more competitive, the Ghana has successfully expanded its category leading positions are being protected product portfolio to include nutritional and by offering a unique after sales package electrical products and has opened its including nationwide service centres and a first HT Cool World store during the year.
The brand equity Performance in Kenya is in line with the is also enhanced by the presence of worldprevious year in a market that is relatively flat.
Branded as HT Two new HT Cool World stores in Nigeria and one in Ghana have opened during the year.
Cool World, two further outlets have opened in Nigeria during the year taking the total to four.
Harefield Industrial Nigeria Ltd This is a relatively newly incorporated subsidiary, 100% owned by the Group.
It has been established to service the needs of consumers in categories adjacent to those in which the Group currently operates.
The main products currently being sourced by this business are fuel powered generators, which service the needs of consumers in an environment where state power supply is infrequent and unreliable, and these are sold under the TEC brand name.
Revenue and profitability growth of this new business The new UHT facility will manufacture UHT milk and other area was strong in the financial year and long-life drinks including Nunu.
opportunities to expand the product portfolio are currently being explored.
Nutricima Ltd The joint venture with Glanbia Plc, 50% owned by the Group, has seen brand growth and manufacturing investment progress well during the year.
However, the very significant spike in milk costs early in the financial year resulted in those high cost stocks remaining in the supply chain throughout the majority of the year.
These costs were unable to be passed on to Venus is one of the first health and the consumer and resulted in a 4.1 million loss beauty brands to be relaunched and to the Group in the year.
The business is now aligned as a regional African brand.
Venus comprises a range of haircare, trading profitably.
Sales of products from the bodycare and toiletries products.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
