18 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Report of the Directors Business review Revenue Operating profit before m exceptional items Asia m In Indonesia, Cussons Baby extended its number 2009 2008 2009 one position in the babycare category through the 135.0 2007 2008 10.2 10.2 9.8 2007 launch of Cussons First Years which is a premium 116.0 107.2 range offering products for pre-natal, baby and toddler needs.
Regional highlights Revenue in Australia grew versus the prior year, however profitability was impacted by high raw material costs, particularly in the first half of the year, and by the depreciation of the Australian Dollar versus the US Dollar.
Despite this, the category leading positions of the fabric care and dish wash brands were maintained through a continued brand renovation programme.
This included the relaunch of all fabric care products in super-concentrated format as part of an industry wide move in the second half of the financial year.
In Indonesia, Cussons Baby extended its number one position in the babycare category through the launch of Cussons First Years which is a premium range, offering products for pre-natal, baby and toddler needs.
Sales of Imperial Leather, Morning Fresh and Cussons Extreme have also continued to progress well.
Revenue was ahead of the prior year although profitability was also impacted by adverse cost and exchange rate movements, together with Good performance in Australia and Indonesia the launch costs of the new range of products.
despite adverse cost and exchange rate impacts Sales and profitability of the other Asian Number one position in babycare in Indonesia units, Thailand and the Middle East, were extended with the successful launch of the ahead of the prior year.
The Groups sales Cussons First Years premium range operation in Malaysia was closed at the end of the financial year with all products to be sold directly from Indonesia.
In Asia, the Morning Fresh brand has been adapted to suit local consumer needs.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
