30 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 Report of the Directors Business review Corporate social responsibility report continued available to all UK employees an Employee countries to ensure that local employees Assistance Programme EAP.
The EAP is a have a good working environment which is 24 hour phone helpline which is available to conducive to productive work.
In particular, employees should they wish to discuss any PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc a company listed issues, personal or work related, in confidence on the Lagos Stock Exchange in which with a trained professional.
The objective of the Group holds a majority share is one the EAP is to assist in the identification and of the largest companies in Nigeria with a resolution of the various problems, strains high reputation as an employer of choice and issues which everyone faces from time to as part of our commitment to our time and which can affect work performance.
employees, we continued to expand Surveys are undertaken to measure and our work life balance programmes to monitor employee satisfaction within the encourage people to balance their work Group.
The results of these surveys are life with their personal life through used to improve communication, motivation flexible hours of working, job sharing and engagement across the business.
and opportunities to work from home we continued the roll-out of a GroupDuring the year, we have also completed the wide incentive programme from senior roll-out of the Speak Up policy which was first management to factory level implemented in the UK and Asia during 2008. we developed our Employee Speak Up has been established to encourage Involvement Groups and continued to employees to voice any concerns which they provide regular business performance might have in respect of business practices updates and presentations to staff throughout the Group and is designed to at all levels of the business.
ensure that employees may report any such issues, confidentially and without fear of has ultimate responsibility on the Board for our CANDO values and reflect those values recrimination, through a telephone hotline health and safety across the Group and is in everything which they do.
We aim to and online facility provided by a third party a member of the Group Risk Committee.
retain and develop our employees and to expert.
Speak Up is particularly focused help them to fulfil their career potential.
on any allegation or concern of malpractice The development of staff and The employment policies of the Group embody including concerns over breaches of health employment practices the principles of equal opportunity irrespective and safety, criminal activity or fraud and As an international group with a presence in of race, colour, religion, age, sex or marital breaches of local laws or environmental a number of developing countries, we focus status and these are fundamental to the regulations and incorporates procedures significant resource on the employment and way in which we conduct our business.
We which ensure that any such issues can be development of local employees both to operate procedures to support the Groups brought promptly to the attention of the Board improve our operations in those countries policy that disabled persons shall be fairly and addressed at the earliest opportunity.
and to bring benefit to the wider local considered for appropriate employment and community.
In doing so, we recognise that subsequent training and career development.
In addition, during 2009: the success of our business is dependent the Group continued to evolve graduate upon the quality, commitment and behaviour We expect employees to operate to high development schemes in developing of our employees.
Accordingly, we provide ethical standards in all their business world territories.
These schemes include clear policies and direction to our managers dealings and this is reflected in the Groups extensive formal and informal training and strive for the highest standards in own stance on business ethics.
PZ Cussons we ran training programmes in management practices, delivering training has no involvement whatsoever in the use manufacturing environments to ensure that and development programmes and of child labour or forced labour in any of its we meet international standards throughout reward arrangements which are tailored businesses and audits suppliers to ensure our manufacturing processes in terms of to meet the needs of our business and that they comply with the Groups standards quality, environment and health and safety the local markets in which we operate.
We also take steps to ensure we continued to offer a wide range full compliance with applicable national laws of development opportunities which We continue to develop a performance-driven and industry standards on working hours support continuous professional culture which supports motivated people who and all other employment regulations.
and personal development to all are passionate about our future.
We believe people in our organisation that to achieve our business objectives we As part of the ongoing review of staff welfare the Group invested significantly in its should encourage our employees to embrace and benefits, the Group continues to make premises in a number of developing Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
