22 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Report of the Directors Business review Report of the Directors Business review Europe continued Future plans The supply chain investments, particularly in the UK and Nigeria, provide a strong platform for the future with additional capacity provided for medium to long-term growth.
With continued focus on ensuring we have a great team of people, we face the future with optimism, albeit always aware that economic conditions remain challenging.
The Sanctuary, purchased in January 2008, has continued to perform strongly in its first full year within the Group.
Product sales have been well ahead of the prior year with loyal consumers continuing to purchase a range which offers quality products at excellent value in the current climate.
The Christmas gift range, which is renovated with a completely new set of products each year, performed particularly strongly with over 1.3 million gifts sold over the festive period.
A significant number of new product launches have also taken place during the second half of the financial year.
The spa in Covent Garden continues to perform well with utilisation close to the capacity of 64,000 visitors per year.
Consideration continues to be given to the opening of other spa locations in the UK to extend the reach of the spa experience to consumers outside London.
Carex, the UKs leading antibacterial hand wash.
Finally, the Groups new Head Office at Manchester Business Park, adjacent to Manchester Airport, and which will be occupied on a lease basis, is on schedule for completion in Spring 2010.
Top: New Group Head Office.
In Poland, focus this year has been on the core brands E clothes detergent, fabric New Group Head Office and the personal care production facilities Bottom: Personal Wash Centre of Excellence.
conditioner and household cleaning products PZ Cussons has selected Manchester have been upgraded and relocated.
Phase and Luksja bar soaps and shower gels Business Park as the location for its new two of the investment will see the upgrade following the sale last year of the non-core 40,000 sq ft Headquarters building and will of the soap and detergent manufacturing skincare brands.
In personal wash, progress relocate in early 2010.
The new purpose built facilities to modern standards and provide has been achieved through the adoption office will provide a modern and stimulating additional capacity for the future.
of the UK concepts of limited editions work environment better suited to the and other UK pack formats.
Export sales future needs of the Group as it continues The second factory to produce nutritional have also continued to progress well.
to expand its international business.
products as part of the joint venture with Glanbia, has now started production of In Greece, excellent progress has been made Personal Wash Centre of Excellence UHT milk and other long-life drinks.
This with revenue and profitability ahead of the The Personal Wash Centre of Excellence will enable us to increase our supply to the prior year.
This has been achieved through the based in Manchester was completed in growing nutritional markets in Nigeria.
organic expansion of the Minerva brand with February 2009.
The new site houses the UK Nigerian National Distribution Centre.
further launches of margarines and spreads to liquids factory, fragrance production unit add to the core range of olive and seed oils.
In and world wide research and development addition, two small bolt on businesses were facility.
This centre will be at the forefront in acquired during the year enabling butter and innovation and research and development cheese products to be added to the Minerva in the personal wash sector in the future.
portfolio, which is now becoming one of the leading ranges of traditional Greek products Investment in Nigeria for both the local and export markets.
Project Unity, the 39 million investment programme in Nigeria to upgrade the Nigerian manufacturing and broader supply chain facilities is well under way.
The world class national distribution centre is now complete Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
