42 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 Report on Directors remuneration continued In view of the time that had elapsed since the last review on 1 January 2008, the Committee commissioned Deloitte LLP during Performance Share Plan the year to review the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors to ensure that they remained competitive, in line with Executive Directors other than the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman on account of his move to part-time status and certain best practice and appropriately structured to incentivise management to continue the Companys recent strong performance.
key executives are also eligible for participation in the Companys Performance Share Plan which provides for the grant of That review indicated that, benchmarked against other companies of similar size, complexity and internationality, total conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of remuneration levels for Executive Directors were towards the lower end of or below the market competitive range.
Accordingly, certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
following consultation with the Companys leading shareholders, the Committee increased the basic salaries of certain of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 June 2009 taking into account individual and Company performance.
Annual awards to any participant are limited to rights over shares with a market value at the time of grant equal to 100% of basic salary save in exceptional circumstances where the limit is 150% of salary.
Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by The Committee recognises the current sensitivities over executive remuneration and is very mindful of the need to show restraint.
shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, awards were made during 2008 09 to the Executive Directors other than the It is also mindful of its obligations.
Notwithstanding the current environment, the Committee concluded that the revised salaries Chairman and Deputy Chairman over shares with a value equal to 100% of basic salary.
These awards are subject to adjusted were fair, appropriate and responsible in the circumstances.
The revised salaries are still positioned below the mid-point of earnings per share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2008.
The market competitive ranges and the overall packages remain around the lower end of market practice.
Details of the revised Committee considers adjusted earnings per share to be an important indicator of the Companys underlying financial performance salaries are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 45. providing a clear line of sight for executives between their performance and potential reward.
Further details of these performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive No changes have been made to any other elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages.
Taxable benefits, which are subject to periodic review, include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits.
It is the Committees intention to make further awards to Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and Deputy Chairman on the same basis in 2009.
Such awards are expected to be subject to similar performance targets measured over a three year Pension benefits performance period commencing on 1 June 2009.
Since 1 June 2008 Executive Directors have participated in a defined contribution pension scheme under which the Group pays a contribution of 20% of salary into the scheme on their behalf subject to a minimum employee contribution of 5% of salary.
Executive Share Option Scheme Executive Directors whose pension benefits have exceeded or are forecast to exceed the life time allowance are eligible, at the Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan, Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and certain discretion of the Committee, to receive a cash payment in lieu of employer pension contributions.
other senior executives were eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
It is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme: any future share-based incentive awards are expected to be Up to 31 May 2008, Executive Directors participated in a defined benefit pension scheme which provided benefits of up to two made instead under the Performance Share Plan.
thirds of final salary subject to a scheme-specific earnings cap.
With effect from 1 June 2008 no further benefits accrue under the defined benefit scheme although the benefits payable will remain linked to salary until 31 May 2013.
Further detail on Executive Options to acquire shares in the Company were previously granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme at an exercise price Directors benefits under the defined benefit scheme are set out in the table on page 46. not less than the market value of the shares when the options were granted and subject to the attainment of pre-determined performance targets.
The value of shares under option granted to an executive in any financial year was limited to a maximum of Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme 1.5 times basic salary.
The exercise of options is subject to the attainment of performance conditions based upon the Companys Executive Directors excluding the Chairman and certain key senior executives are eligible to participate in the Deferred Annual adjusted earnings per share growth relative to inflation over three financial years.
Options are normally exercisable between three Share Bonus Scheme, pursuant to which they may earn an annual bonus linked to performance targets established by the and ten years from the date of grant.
For 2008 09, Executive Directors excluding the Chairman could receive a bonus of up to 80% of basic salary with 60% of salary payable at target dependent upon the achievement of profit before taxation and net working capital targets and There have been no grants of options during 2008 09 and no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria payable as to 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares based on the share price on 31 May 2008. attaching to subsisting options.
Further details of the performance conditions for subsisting awards are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements on page 44.
Deferred shares will normally be received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
During the deferral period and subject to continued employment individuals The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued ordinary shares, treasury shares or ordinary shares purchased who have been awarded deferred shares under the scheme receive cash payments equal to the dividends that would have been in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant payable on such shares at the same time as shareholders in the Company receive dividends.
Sufficient shares to satisfy such rights to issue more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than deferred awards are generally purchased in the market and retained in an employee benefit trust pending their transfer to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital for executive share plans.
Further details regarding the employee benefit trust are given in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors Mr A G Calder, the Deputy Chairman, participated in the scheme on a pro rata basis until his move to part-time status on 30 The Committee has adopted a formal shareholding guideline for Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are expected to build up November 2008 when he became subject to separate arrangements providing for a maximum bonus of 70% of annual basic a shareholding in the Company with a value calculated as the higher of the market value at acquisition and market value from time salary, calculated on a pro rata basis and payable in cash, against the achievement of similar profit before tax and net working to time of at least 100% of basic salary from time to time.
Executive Directors are also expected to retain at least 50% of any capital targets to other Executive Directors.
share awards which vest net of tax until the threshold shareholding is met.
Bonuses vesting in respect of the achievement of targets for 2008 09 are included in the table on Directors remuneration on It is also the Boards expectation that, wherever practicable and subject in all respects to the UK Listing Authoritys Model Code, page 45. any disposal of shares by Directors will be transacted in the period of two weeks immediately following the announcement by the Company of each of its interim and preliminary results.
The eligibility of the Executive Directors other than the Chairman and Deputy Chairman in respect of their participation in the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme for the year ending 31 May 2010 has been set at similar percentages of salary to those in Non-executive Directors 2008 09 dependent upon the achievement of certain profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin Fees payable to Non-executive Directors are reviewed every two years on 1 June, the next such review scheduled to be targets for the Group.
undertaken with effect from 1 June 2010.
These percentages may be exceeded in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee and were exceeded during 2008 09 in respect of Mr A G Calder to reflect his non-participation in the Performance Share Plan.
Accounts Report of the Directors Overview
