DirectorsReport Business Review Chief Executive Officers review continued Our future priorities Our vision remains clear and constant but now more sharply focused for the next stage in our growth.
Our strategy also remains consistent but is regularly reviewed and refreshed in the light of both our experience and market developments.
We have selected a number of global capability areas for focus.
So, how will our strategy evolve for the future?
Our vision To be recognised internationally as a leading provider of technology-based services and solutions to customers in defence, security and related markets Our strategy Build and maintain existing relationships Strengthen and develop our international reach Build on our powerful defence franchises through increased and presence customer focus, growing our market share in technology Continue building our business in our home markets of UK, insertion, advice and managed services whilst also expanding North America and Australia delivering good organic growth our presence into related markets where we already have supplemented by targeted acquisitions.
a good footprint such as security and intelligence.
Build valuable new market positions in selected additional Develop selected global capabilities international markets including the Middle East and the Far East.
Develop global capabilities in selected fields of service Maintain a leading position in key areas of defence and technology.
and continue expansion into other adjacent markets Provide integrated solutions and service offerings Expand relevant international routes to market for defence across geographies.
Increase synergies across our business.
Further develop security market potential, our energy and environmental offerings and applications to other relevant markets through direct exploitation, venturing and licensing.
Selected global capabilities Autonomy and Robotics Sensors and Spectrum Training and Simulation Technology providing control Capabilities that detect, monitor and Enhanced training covering of unmanned platforms across track in real-time, making best use of technical training any domain the electro-magnetic spectrum and mission rehearsal including experimentation and requirements capture Financial Years 2005 QinetiQ first enters 2006 QinetiQ is listed on the The Story so far North American market London Stock Exchange QinetiQ has made dramatic strides since it was through acquisition and joins the FTSE 250 formed and subsequently listed on the London Stock in February 2006 Exchange in 2006.
Since then we have transformed a solely UK-based research and development QinetiQ Group achieves establishment into an international market leader revenues of 1bn in technology-based solutions primarily for the defence, security and related sectors.
But this is just the beginning.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements See page Our KPIs 38-39 The Group delivers its strategy against the high level objectives set out on these pages.
We then use a range of financial and non-financial performance indicators to measure the growth and performance of the Group over time.
Organic revenue growth Sustainable organic growth, supplemented by growth from major opportunities Proportion of revenue generated by QNA Develop, enhance and maintain our people skills Total revenues in the medium term from QNA, through and resources a combination of organic growth and acquisitions Recruit and retain people with outstanding intellectual Underlying operating profit margin capacity, technical skills and personal qualities.
The percentage return on sales achieved based on underlying operating profit Motivate and recognise innovation in technology and problem solving and excellence in customer service and delivery.
Book to bill ratio The ratio of orders to revenue to identify the rate of Recognise and promote talent.
prospective growth in the business Further embed a customer-focused culture throughout Funded backlog our businesses.
The value of contractually funded orders providing visibility over future revenues Underlying basic EPS growth The rate at which underlying earnings per share increased over the prior year expressed as a percentage Operating cash conversion The percentage of underlying operating profit converted into underlying operating cash flow after capital expenditure Health and safety of employees The number of reported injuries and incidents measured as the number of events in any period per 1,000 people Employee turnover rate Cyber Security and Resilience Measuring our managers ability to retain key talent in a Capabilities that assure the integrity and competitive market place inter-operability of communications, ensuring Risks the secure and resilient exploitation of IT systems The Group operates primarily in the UK and US defence and security markets and manages the inherent risks of its activities.
See pages The Group reviews both the commercial and market risks that See pages 17-25 it faces in order to protect its financial integrity and reputation.
40-42 2007 New EMEA region established 2008 QinetiQ enters the Australian 2009 The MOD completes the sale of defence market its shareholding in QinetiQ Metrix, a joint venture led by QinetiQ, selected as preferred bidder QNA reaches $1bn of revenue QinetiQ acquires Dominion for the UK Governments Defence Technology Resources Inc. Training Review DTR and Spectro Inc. QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
