DirectorsReport Business Review Key performance indicators Measuring our performance To assess Group performance, the Board uses a range of key performance indicators KPIs comprising both financial and non-financial metrics.
Financial KPI DESCRIPTION COMMENT The Groups organic revenue growth is calculated by Organic revenue growth Organic revenue growth taking the increase in 2009 revenue over 2008 pro demonstrates the Groups capability forma revenue, at constant exchange rates.
The pro to expand its core operations within 09 7% forma revenue assumes that any acquisitions were its chosen markets before the effect 08 9% owned and any discontinued operations or disposals of acquisitions.
07 2% excluded, for the comparable period in the prior year.
Proportion of revenue generated by QNA The percentage of the Groups total revenues The Group aims to generate 50% generated by QinetiQ North America.
of its total revenues in the medium term from QNA, through a 09 47% combination of organic growth and 08 40% acquisitions, as North America is the 07 31% largest defence and security market available to the Group.
The Groups calculation of underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit margin Underlying operating profit margin margin is consistent with prior years.
Underlying can be used to show the underlying operating profit margin is calculated by taking the profitability of the revenues delivered 09 9.6% earnings before tax and interest, gains on business by the Group.
It can also be used to 08 9.3% realisations, major restructuring costs, impairment of compare the Groups performance 07 9.2% investments, profit on disposal of non-current assets with that of our peers, providing the and amortisation of intangible assets arising from definition of underlying operating acquisitions as a percentage of revenue.
Book to bill ratio excl LTPA The ratio of contracted orders compared to revenue The measure provides an indication in the period.
The calculation is consistent with of the Groups visibility of its future that published in previous years and specifically revenue and therefore its rate of 09 1.1:1 excludes the MOD Long Term Partnership Agreement prospective growth.
A book to bill 08 1.1:1 LTPA revenue as no annual order is associated ratio in excess of 1.0 demonstrates 07 1.2:1 with this revenue.
that the Group is continuing to build its backlog of future revenues.
The value of contractually-funded orders excluding This provides visibility over the Funded backlog the LTPA at a point in time.
The measure does level of future revenues which have not include any unfunded orders, which are more already been contractually secured.
09 1,220.2m common for multi-year contracts in the North 08 947.7m American Defence market.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements KPI DESCRIPTION COMMENT The rate at which underlying basic earnings per share EPS provides shareholders with a Underlying basic EPS growth EPS has increased over the prior year expressed as measure of the earnings generated a percentage.
by the business after deducting tax 09 18.7% and interest.
EPS performance also 08 18.8% determines the level of payout for the 07 10.4% Groups long-term incentive plans.
The ratio of our net cash flow from operations Provides a measure of the Groups Operating cash conversion excluding reorganisations, less outflows on the ability to generate cash from normal purchase of intangible assets, and property plant and operations and gives an indication 09 105% equipment to underlying operating profit, excluding of its ability to pay dividends, service 08 77% the share of post-tax results of equity accounted joint its debt and to make discretionary 07 56% ventures and associates.
Non-financial KPI DESCRIPTION COMMENT In the UK, the Group tracks the number of Reported Health and Safety records are Health & Safety of employees in EMEA Injuries, Diseases & Dangerous Occurrences monitored to drive continual UK RIDDOR per 1,000 employees Regulations RIDDOR incidents measured as the improvement in minimising number of events in any period per 1,000 people.
The the risk to employees.
09 2.82 HSE RIDDOR rate is 5.19 for the all industries category.
08 2.28 07 3.47 Health and safety of employees In North America, QNA tracks the number of Health and Safety records are Occupational Safety & Health Administration monitored to drive continual in QNA lost days per 1,000 employees OSHA reported accidents and the number of work improvement in minimising days lost per 1,000 employees occurring as a result the risk to employees.
08 1.57 07 2.14 Employee turnover rate Employee turnover excluding redundancies Key employee retention is a priority measured as the annualised number of resignations for the Group.
Employee turnover in a period expressed as a percentage of average provides a measure of our managers 09 9.7% headcount in the period.
ability to retain key talent in a 08 10.3% competitive marketplace.
07 7.1% See pages 43-47 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39
