DirectorsReport Governance Board of Directors Clear and experienced direction 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1.
David Mellors Non-executive Chairman 62 Chief Executive officer 55 Chief Financial officer 40 Appointed Non-executive Chairman in Appointed Chief Executive officer in Appointed Chief Financial officer in October 2006, Executive Chairman between September 2005, QinetiQ Chief August 2008 September 2005 and October 2006, QinetiQ Financial officer between July 2001 David was previously deputy Chief Financial Chief Executive officer between July 2001 and September 2005 officer of Logica plc.
David has also held the and September 2005 Chief Executive of Member of the Compliance Committee position of Chief Financial officer of Logicas DERA from 1991 international division covering operations in Graham was formerly Chief Executive of Member of the Compliance Committee North America, Australia, Middle East and Comax Secure Business Services Ltd, leading and Nominations Committee Asia and prior to that he was the Group the company through its privatisation in Financial Controller.
Earlier experience Sir John was previously UK Managing 1997 before its sale to Amey plc in 1999. included various roles with CMG Plc, Director of Sema Group plc, prior to which Graham joined DERA in 1991 and was its Rio Tinto plc and Price Waterhouse.
David he was a Director of CAP Group plc.
In 1979, Finance Director from 1992 to 1996, and is a member of the Institute of Chartered he founded and became Managing Director again between 1999 and 2001.
His career Accountants in England and Wales.
of CAP scientific Ltd, following periods of has also included management roles with time spent at General Motors and Scicon Ltd, Ernst & Young, KPMG and Shandwick plc, part of BP.
Sir John was formerly President as well as several years in international 4.
Sir David Lees of the Institution of Engineering and consulting.
Graham is a Fellow of the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Technology and is currently Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Non-executive Director 72 Medical Research Council.
He is also a Fellow England and Wales.
of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Appointed Deputy Chairman and SID in Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institute August 2005 of Physics.
The Board considers Sir Johns Chairman of the Compliance Committee extensive knowledge of Defence and and Nominations Committee: Member Security Technology markets, and his of the Remuneration Committee unrivalled experience of QinetiQs business Sir David is currently Chairman of Tate & Lyle gained whilst Chief Executive officer, to plc: he has also been a member of the UK be a valuable asset to the Board in terms Panel on Takeovers and Mergers since June of decision-making and understanding 2001 and in April 2009 was appointed the strategic issues affecting the Group.
Chairman of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir David joined GKN plc in 1970 and has held the position of Group Finance Director, Chief Executive and Executive Chairman before becoming Non-executive 48 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Chairman in 1997 until his retirement assignments as Special Assistant to the 6.
Other notable roles include CIAs Deputy Director for Intelligence, Non-executive Director 60 being a member of the National Defence Senior Military Assistant to the US Defense Appointed Non-executive Director in Industries Council between 1995 and 2004, Secretary and Commander, US Joint Forces Chairman of Courtaulds plc from 1996 to October 2005 Command.
He also served as NATOs first 1998 and a Non-executive Director of the Supreme Allied Commander Transformation.
Member of the Audit Committee, Bank of England between 1991 and 1999.
Ed currently serves as the Non-executive Nominations Committee and From 2001 to 2006, he was Non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for Remuneration Committee Joint Deputy Chairman of Brambles Alenia North America, Inc and is a NonNoreen sits on the Board of Credit Suisse Industries plc and Brambles Industries executive Director of SRA International, Group Zurich and is a Non-executive Limited.
Sir David is a Fellow of the Institute Inc and Monster Worldwide Inc.
The Board Director of Newmont Mining Corporation of Chartered Accountants in England and considers that Eds extensive knowledge Denver and Rexam plc.
The Board considers that Sir Davids of the US Defence and Security domain appointment in 2001 as First Vice President detailed understanding of the Defence signicantly enhances the operation of the of the European Bank for Reconstruction sector, coupled with his extensive experience Board, as QinetiQ continues to pursue its and Development EBRD, Noreen was head of corporate governance and the City and strategy of growing its US platform in the of Risk Management.
Previously Noreen its institutions, signicantly enhances the defence and security technology sector.
had a distinguished career at Bankers Trust operation of the Board, particularly in the Company now Deutsche Bank in corporate context of Sir Davids dual role of Deputy finance and leveraged nancing with a 9.
Nick Luff Chairman and Senior Independent Nonconcentration in oil, gas and mining.
Non-executive Director 42 Board considers that Noreens extensive Appointed Non-executive Director in international business experience, June 2004 particularly in the areas of corporate finance, 5.
Colin Balmer risk management and banking, to be of Chairman of the Audit Committee, Non-executive Director 62 significant benefit to the Board as QinetiQ Member of the Nominations Committee Appointed Non-executive Director in continues its strategy of developing new Nick was appointed Finance Director February 2003 business opportunities outside its traditional of Centrica plc in March 2007, having UK market, particularly in North America.
Member of the Compliance Committee previously served as CFO of the P&O Group.
and Nominations Committee He trained as a chartered accountant with Colin served as Managing Director of KPMG and is a member of the Institute 7.
Dr Peter Fellner the Cabinet Ofce from 2003 until his of Chartered Accountants in England Non-executive Director 65 retirement in 2006.
Previously, he was and Wales.
Nick joined the P&O Board as Finance Director of the MOD, with Appointed Non-executive Director in Finance Director in 1999.
In October 2000, September 2004 responsibility for QinetiQs privatisation he became Chief Financial officer of P&O and the subsequent investment by Carlyle Princess Cruises plc on its demerger from Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, as part of the PPP Transaction.
Colin has the P&O Group and returned as Chief Member of the Nominations Committee extensive experience across the MOD and Financial officer of P&O in May 2003.
Nick and Audit Committee is currently a member of the Foreign and has also served as a Non-executive Director Peter is Chairman of Vernalis plc, Consort Commonwealth Ofces Audit and Risk on the board of Royal P&O Nedlloyd NV, Medical plc, and Astex Therapeutics Committee and is on the Board of the the Dutch-listed international container Limited.
He is also a Director of the global Royal Mint, chairing their Audit Committee.
The Board considers biotechnology company UCB SA, and of The Board considers that Colins extensive that Nicks experience of operating as Evotec AG.
He was previously Chairman knowledge of the development of QinetiQ Chief Financial officer Finance Director of Celltech Group plc from 2003 until its throughout its public-private partnership, with P&O and Centrica, coupled with his acquisition in July 2004, having served as and his in-depth understanding of the extensive exposure to a variety of industrial its Chief Executive officer from 1990.
Before working of Government, particularly the sectors, provides the rigorous financial and joining Celltech, he was Chief Executive of UK MOD, provides the Board with a unique commercial scrutiny required of a FTSE-listed Roche UK from 1986 to 1990, having been insight into the issues facing Government company at the Board level, particularly in Director of the Roche UK Research Centre in delivering its procurement objectives the context of his role as Chairman of the from 1984. and partnering with industry suppliers.
Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani Jr.
US Navy retired Non-executive Director 61 Appointed Non-executive Director in February 2008 Member of the Nominations Committee Between 2005 and 2007, Ed was the second highest ranking military officer in the United States, having served as the seventh Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Eds distinguished career has also included QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 49
