DirectorsReport Business Review What we do A leading technology-based services and solutions business Our markets Defence QNA EMEA Our long-standing involvement with the defence industry has Long-term customer relationships with defence customers given us a deep understanding of defence requirements and worldwide underpin the business.
We work with defence organisations across the world delivering technology and innovation to meet the challenges of a Highlights during the year included: changing world.
EMEA won a 150m maritime contract, Maritime Strategic We provide technology, solutions, services and consultancy to Capability Agreement MSCA governments and industrial partners.
Award of 24m contract for Harrier Through-Life Support Our businesses support the military around the world working Award of 26m Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training DSALT across land, sea and air environments.
contract by the UK Ministry of Defence QNA operates in the worlds largest defence market with an Enhancement of the three-year $62m contract to train Iraqi annual spend of $600bn.
pilots with a recent extension to in excess of $100m.
Our UK business has a wealth of understanding and expertise generated from working with the UK MOD.
We provide customers with tailored or off-the-shelf advice, technology solutions and services to enable the acquisition and through-life management of military capabilities.
EMEA awarded a 150m Maritime Strategic Capability Agreement by UK MOD to sustain critical capabilities in support of maritime platform programmes The new 26m Distributed Synthetic Air Land Training contract was 24m contract win for Harrier Through-Life support ensuring long-term awarded in the second half of the year availability and capability of the fleet 2 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Our focus We are focused on supporting our customers with technology-based services and solutions, which solve important and complex problems.
We use the in-depth technical and domain knowledge of our people to understand and help reduce some of the most complex technical challenges faced by our customers.
We seek growth opportunities in our core defence, security and intelligence markets.
Our business is organised into two: EMEA, covering activity in Europe, Middle East and Australasia: and QNA, covering North America.
Security and Intelligence Energy and Environment QNA EMEA EMEA We provide independent security consulting services, managed We provide innovative technology services and solutions to services and technology solutions to meet the challenges of customers in a range of markets that we collectively refer to as keeping our customers secure now and in the future.
Our customers are either organisations involved in the generation and supply of energy or those trying In North America the business is well-positioned with the to manage their energy demand and the environmental impact largest homeland security agencies including the US Customs of their business.
Service and Customs & Border Protection and the US Department of Homeland Security.
The intelligence and cyber security The UK Government has recently committed to an 80% reduction markets are priorities of the new US Administration.
in CO emissions by 2050 and introduced the Carbon Reduction 2 Commitment that will incentivise or penalise many medium In the UK the operational requirements of the UK National and large companies depending on how they manage their Security Strategy and counter-terrorism are top Government energy and carbon emissions.
In addition, the UK Government priorities.
We work in close support of governmental is facilitating a new-build programme for nuclear power and organisations responsible for countering terrorism, providing is committed to generating 15% of all energy from renewable law enforcement and ensuring the integrity of the UKs critical sources by 2020 and funding research into commercialised national infrastructure, including the global transportation Carbon Capture and Storage systems.
These political and and logistic supply chain and crucial security requirements.
legislative drivers, coupled with our breadth and depth of technical expertise and our track record in a number of these markets, support our belief that the Energy and Environment Highlights during the year included: markets provide us with a growth opportunity.
In October 2008 following Government approval, we acquired DTRI, a leading provider of services to the North American defence and security communities.
Highlights during the year included: US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agencys DARPA EMEA secured participation in the European Unions smart award of follow-on research contract for the Large Area fixed wing aircraft joint technology initiative Coverage Optical Search While Track and Engage LACOSTE Award of a contract from the Energy Technologies Institute to programme, using a new sensor system to provide tactical apply aerodynamics expertise to the wind power industry surveillance and precision tracking capability.
QinetiQs pyrolysis waste processing technology installed on HMS Ocean for trials.
NASA is a key customer of QNAs Acquisition of DTRI brings Mission Solutions business new customer relationships EMEA provides aerodynamics expertise to the wind power industry More from within the US defence on pages 26-31 and security communities QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
