Business Review Governance Financial Statements Our global capabilities in action The following pages illustrate some of our global capabilities on which we will focus moving forward.
We believe these are areas for potential future growth.
Autonomy and Robotics Sensors and Spectrum Cyber Security and Resilience Training and Simulation QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 DirectorsReport Business Review Our global capabilities in action Autonomy and Robotics Responsive solutions to challenging problems 18 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements The Opportunity Autonomous or unmanned tools such as robots perform dangerous missions previously undertaken by people.
QinetiQ plays an important role in many research, solution development and operational programmes for future unmanned systems across land, air and sea domains.
Specifically, we are involved in the UK MODs research projects in unmanned aerial vehicles UAV and unmanned ground vehicles UGV.
We are also a partner with BAE Systems in the Mantis programme where we have provided semiautomatic sea vehicles to the Royal Navy.
In addition to developing our own unmanned platforms including the Zephyr high altitude long endurance UAV and the TALON family of ground robots, we also provide managed UAV services.
The TALON robot has an impressive track record in the military but the application for robots is also growing outside of the military context.
In the UK, civil agencies such as Network Rail, the Highways Agency and Transport for London, in collaboration with the London Fire Brigade, are using our robots to help fight fires and support other major incidents such as chemical contamination where there is considerable danger to the rescue services.
While the use of unmanned systems for defence and security is expanding rapidly worldwide, the civil market has not yet been exploited.
Independent studies estimate that the civil and commercial UAV market in Europe alone is estimated to be worth about 1.2bn over the next ten years.
The future uses for unmanned systems are extensive.
In partnership with Aberystwyth University, we have recently completed the UKs first flight of a UAV for agricultural monitoring.
We are building on programmes such as this to broaden the routine application of UAVs to provide civil aerial services to the security, energy and environment markets.
A QinetiQ Solution TM The latest generation of military robots Dragon Runner The provision of portable, adaptable and robust equipment is vital in supporting military operations.
With threats becoming more changeable and serious, adaptability of equipment is essential.
QNA is one of the worlds leading suppliers of military robots.
Dragon Runner, its latest model, is small enough to fit in a small rucksack and weighs less than 20lbs.
The unit can be carried by one person in a standard-issue pack.
It can be used in urban, mountainous or rural environments, operating in sewers, drainpipes, caves and courtyards.
Dragon Runnercan climb stairs, open doors, provide critical reconnaissance information and disarm improvised electronic devices all while protecting troops who control the robot from a safe distance.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 DirectorsReport Business Review Our global capabilities in action 20 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Sensors and Spectrum Protecting our communities and assets The Opportunity A QinetiQ Solution TM A key requirement of any Government is to protect its people against Keeping us safe SPO-7 threats.
Sensors are increasingly playing a role to detect and deter Just one security breach can cost lives.
Human-borne explosives are potential threats.
Two areas of focus within the physical security one of the most significant threats for society particularly in locations area are: the screening of mass transit locations where significant where large numbers of people pass through each day.
numbers of people are present: and the protection of critical national infrastructure which is often geographically distributed eg oil and UK and North American authorities wanted real-time stand-off information about what people have in their possession when gas pipelines.
TM moving around public places.
QinetiQ delivered SPO-7, the latest The key technical challenge is to obtain covert information about a in a generation of millimetre wave technology products, providing potential threat and pass this in real-time to the appropriate security remote real-time threat detection.
personnel who can effect a suitable response.
TM SPO-7 provides safe stand-off detection for operator safety, fast In mass transit locations, Government authorities are seeking to obtain decision-making and effective crisis management, rapid deployment real-time information about what people may have in their possession.
capability, privacy protection and covert surveillance capability.
Public The challenge is to gain this information without having to physically safety and privacy is protected while scanning rates, up to 45 times search a person.
faster than competing technologies, can occur.
The system can be Protecting geographically distributed infrastructure is both technically rapidly deployed in a wide range of both permanent and semiand financially challenging with critical oil and gas pipelines typically permanent installations, such as mobile checkpoints and building TM extending over kilometres, often buried below open countryside.
With increased concern relating to public safety, SPO-7 These assets are subject to both intentional and unintentional threats.
has applications in a wide range of markets including the aviation The challenge is to provide sufficient advance warning to enable a timely and surface transportation markets.
response to an impending threat which may be some distance away During the 2008 Presidential elections, the North American from the nearest response team.
Conventional sensors are expensive to TM Transportation Security Administration used SPO-7 technology install which is why the industry is turning to advanced optical sensors.
QinetiQs OptaSense System is able to accurately locate and classify potential threats before any damage is done to the pipeline.
It is one of the market-leading solutions.
QinetiQs recent contract with Defence Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA in support of its Large Area Coverage Optical Search While Track and Engage LACOSTE programme involves the use of advanced sensors to provide tactical surveillance and precision tracking capabilities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 DirectorsReport Business Review Our global capabilities in action Training and Simulation Preparing for the unknown 22 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements The Opportunity A QinetiQ Solution Simulation-enhanced training is emerging as a significant growth area Investing in the safety of our armed forces The Distributed Synthetic across all defence forces.
Current operations are changing rapidly in Air Land Training DSALT contract terms of threats, deployment and coalition partners and the ability Making sure that troops are prepared for combat and ready to take to provide targeted training and mission rehearsals is seen as a vital on the challenges of the different terrains and threats that they face component in achieving success.
QinetiQ harnesses the power of simulation to support decision-making It is vital that ground and air personnel are able to communicate and training at all levels.
Being at the forefront of the development of effectively with each other, especially in fast-moving scenarios.
networked simulation, QinetiQ undertakes concept development to QinetiQ has delivered a synthetic training facility to provide such in-service support through a range of synthetic environment tools and potentially life-saving pre-deployment training for UK forces before techniques.
These tailored products can be used across all domains they leave for Afghanistan.
This training was recently put on including fast jets, helicopters and unmanned air vehicles, maritime an enhanced footing when QinetiQ was awarded a 26m contract and land forces.
They encompass specific sensor and weapon systems.
to deliver DSALT for the next four years.
QinetiQ manages a number of state-of-the-art facilities to help DSALT provides invaluable training for front-line soldiers who act as the customers explore their options and evaluate alternative solutions eyes and ears for artillery and combat aircraft.
In addition, RAF pilots in a collaborative, real-time, dynamic environment.
One such facility benefit as ground forces get to understand the pilots perspective of a is the Portal, an important experimental facility in Farnborough, mission and vice versa.
This means that communications between all Hampshire, operated through an alliance with Boeing.
parties are improved, operations run more smoothly and there is less chance of error.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 DirectorsReport Business Review Our global capabilities in action Cyber Security and Resilience Advanced solutions for the future The Opportunity The demands of modern government and the operational imperatives of national, regional and commercial organisations have placed a critical requirement on the extensive use of information technology, including the internet, to enable vital and timely direction, services and support.
QinetiQ applies the science and technologies that are central to the needs of both the wider national security market and the emerging demands of effective cyber security and information assurance.
With close relationships with UK and US national security agencies, we are uniquely positioned to provide trusted advice, services and solutions.
Our highly qualified and vetted information assurance experts are nationally regarded.
They routinely work with customers in public and commercial sectors to establish the most effective security for their operations, information, people and physical assets.
With a range of proven and trusted digital security services, including network guards, penetration testing and digital forensics, QinetiQ provides both virtual and on-site security assessments to the most sensitive security agencies and largest law enforcement organisations.
We also provide the UKs most secure hosting environment with 24 7 monitoring and alerting, using managed intrusion detection systems combined with strict access control.
Further cyber security capability is offered through our leading expertise in cryptography, to ensure the secure transmission of messages and vital data for protecting the confidentiality of information in a secure end-to-end information infrastructure.
Aligned with the UKs National Security Strategy, QinetiQ has developed a range of capabilities from training to influencing human behaviour to the prevention of intelligence activities through the collation and analysis of large and complex data sources.
QinetiQ North Americas Mission Solutions Group specialises in providing intelligence, systems engineering and security services in support of the US Department of Homeland Security.
It is focused on developing innovative, technical approaches for the intelligence community, analysing and supporting defence systems: designing, developing and testing aerospace systems and providing a full range of security support services to the US Government.
A QinetiQ Solution Secure systems for Government e-Borders As part of the Trusted Borders consortium led by Raytheon, we are participating in the UK Governments 1bn e-Borders programme, an advanced border transformation programme working to strengthen and modernise border controls.
The programme will improve the ability of the UK Border Agency to count passengers into and out of the UK.
The e-Borders programme will collect and analyse passenger, service and crew data provided by carriers air, sea and rail, in respect of all journeys to and from the United Kingdom in advance of their travel, supporting an intelligence-led approach to operating border controls.
Within the programme, QinetiQ is the advisor for security accreditation and human factors.
e-Borders is set to be implemented by 2014, when the maintenance phase will commence and will deliver increased security at strategic border sites in the UK ports, harbours, stations and airports.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
