DirectorsReport Governance Other statutory information Other statutory information ordinary shares.
The Special Share may only be held by and transferred Principal activity to HM Government.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ Group plc is a pubic limited company, listed on the London QinetiQ to redeem the share at par and if wound up the Special Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales with registered Shareholder would be entitled to be repaid capital before other number 4586941. shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching to the Special QinetiQ Group plc is the parent company of a Group whose principal Share requires the written approval of the MOD.
activities during the year were the supply of technology-based solutions and products and provision of technology-rich support services for Change of control significant agreements government defence and security organisations, such as the UK MOD The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling and the US DoD, and for commercial customers around the world.
the counter parties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration or other similar rights in the event of a change of Research and development control of the Company or if the Company no longer remains One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of a UK company.
funded research and development for customers.
The Group also The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a 20-year contract invests in the commercialisation of promising technologies across awarded to QinetiQ by MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms of all areas of business.
this contract require QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company which The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred on behalf of is incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK or an overseas customers as part of specific funded research contracts.
R&D costs company registered in the UK and that at least 50% of the Board of are included in the income statement and R&D income is reflected Directors are UK nationals.
The terms also contain change of control within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group recorded 468.5m conditions and restricted share transfer conditions which require prior 2008: 465.9m of total R&D-related expenditure, of which approval from HM Government if there is a material change in the 457.0m was customer-funded work 2008: 453.1m.
ownership of QinetiQ Limiteds share capital, unless the change relates to shares listed on a regulated market, with material defined as being In the year to 31 March 2009, 11.5m 2008: 12.8m of internally 10% or more of the share capital.
Additionally, there are restrictions funded R&D, was charged to the income statement.
0.2m 2008: on transfers of shares to persons from countries appearing on the 1.4m of late-stage development costs were capitalised and 2.4m restricted list as issued by HM Government.
2008: 1.5m of capitalised development costs were amortised in the year.
Further description of the Groups research and development The Long Term Partnering Agreement is a 25-year contract which activity is contained in the Performance Review on pages 17-31.
QinetiQ Limited signed on 28 February 2003 to provide test, evaluation and training services to the MOD.
This contract contains conditions Policy and practice on payment of suppliers where the prior approval of HM Government is required if the The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment prior to contractor, QinetiQ Limited, ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ commencing trade with a supplier and to abide by those terms based Group, except where such change in control is permitted under the on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
At 31 March 2009, Shareholders Agreement to which MOD is a party.
the trade creditors of the Group represented 42 days of annual The Company is party to a 500m Revolving Credit Facility with Lloyds purchases 2008: 35 days.
TSB Bank plc as agent expiring 19 August 2012.
Under the terms of the Facility, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity Political and charitable contributions as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is The Group made no political donations in the year.
Charitable a change of control of the Company, any Lender may request by not donations during the year across the Group amounted to 133,500 less than 90 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be 2008: 184,000. cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
Share capital On 6 December 2006, QinetiQ North America, Inc as Borrower and As at 31 March 2009 the Company had: the Company as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement 1 Authorised share capital of 1,400,000,000 ordinary 1p shares with to issue $135m 5.44% Senior Notes due 6 December 2013 and $125m aggregate nominal value of 14,000,000 and one Special Share with 5.50% Senior Notes due 6 December 2016.
Under the terms of the an aggregate nominal value of 1. agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain its capacity as Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is 2 Allotted and fully paid share capital of 660,476,373 ordinary shares a change of control of the Company, and 3 in either case where there of 1p each with an aggregate nominal value of 6.6 million including has been a rating downgrade, or where there are no rated securities shares held by employee share trusts.
unless a rating of at least investment grade is not obtained within Details of the shares issued during the financial year are shown in 90 days of the change of control, the Notes must be offered for note 32 on page 97. prepayment by the Company within 21 days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 45 days after the offer The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive of prepayment by the Company.
the Companys reports and accounts, to attend and speak at General On 5 February 2009, QinetiQ North America, Inc as Borrower and Meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in person or by the Company as Guarantor entered into a Note Purchase Agreement appointing a proxy and to receive a dividend where declared or paid to issue $62m 7.13% Senior Notes due 5 February 2016 and $238m out of profits available for such a purpose.
Under the terms of the The Special Share is held by HM Government and it confers certain agreement, if either 1 the MOD ceases to retain in its capacity as rights under the Articles of Association which are detailed in note 32 Special Shareholder its Special Shareholders Rights: or 2 there is on page 97.
These include the right to require certain persons a change of control of the Company, the Notes must be offered for with a material interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their prepayment within 21 days of the change of control.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements date would be no later than 45 days after the offer of prepayment by QinetiQ seeks to utilise a range of communication channels the Company.
to employees in order to involve them in the running of the organisation.
This is done using various media including Major shareholders in-house magazines, intranet, regular newsletters, bulletins, management briefings, trade union consultation and widespread At 12 May 2009, being the latest practicable date prior to the training programmes.
issuance of this report, the Group had been notified of the following shareholdings of at least 3% in the ordinary share capital of the Group: Employee Share Scheme Lansdowne Partners Ltd 9.05% Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as trustee in respect of all ordinary shares held by employees under the QinetiQ Group plc Share Black Rock Investment Management Ltd 5.24% Incentive Plan the Plan.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will Prudential plc 5.19% send a Form of Direction to all employees holding shares under the Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.15% Plan, and will vote on all resolutions proposed at general meetings Fidelity International Ltd UK 4.97% in accordance with the instructions received.
In circumstances where MAG 5.02% ordinary shares are held by the corporate sponsored nominee service, Legal & General 3.98% Equiniti Corporate Nominees Limited will send a Proxy Form to all Credit Suisse 3.16% shareholders utilising such corporate nominee service, and will vote Deutsche Bank AG 3.01% on all resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance with the instructions received.
Allotment purchase of own shares Auditors At the Companys AGM held in July 2008, the shareholders KPMG Audit Plc has expressed their willingness to continue in office passed resolutions which authorised the Directors to allot relevant as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,388,112, to disapply Annual General Meeting.
pre-emption rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital and for the Company to purchase ordinary shares up to 10% of its Statement of disclosure of information ordinary share capital.
Equivalent resolutions will be laid before to auditors the 2009 AGM.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors During the year, the Company provided funding to the trustees of its report have confirmed that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is employee share schemes to make market purchases of the Companys no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are ordinary shares to cover future obligations under outstanding share unaware: and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably option and other share-based awards.
Further details are disclosed ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any in note 33 on page 98. relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Restrictions on transfer of shares As outlined on page 97, the Special Share confers certain rights Annual General Meeting under the Companys Articles of Association to require certain persons The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 4 with an interest in QinetiQs shares which exceed certain prescribed August 2009 at 2.00 pm at the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, thresholds to dispose of some or all of their ordinary shares on grounds 1 Birdcage Walk, Westminster, London SW1H 9JJ.
Details of the of national security or conflict of interest.
business to be proposed and voted upon at the meeting is contained in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is sent to all In addition, at IPO, certain members of the senior management shareholders and also published on the website www.
com team which included the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer entered into a Lock Up agreement, which prohibited the disposal By order of the Board of ordinary shares in the Company save in certain limited circumstances for a period of three years ending on 15 February 2009.
The restrictions set out in the Lock Up Agreements terminated on such date.
Articles of Association Lynton Boardman Save in the respect of any variation to the rights attaching to the Company Secretary Special Share, the Company has not adopted any special rules relating 85 Buckingham Gate to the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association other than London SW1E 6PD as provided under UK corporate law.
21 May 2009 Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer, upholds the principles of the UK Employment Services Two Ticks symbol and is accredited by Investors in People.
Every possible consideration is given to applications for employment, regardless of gender, religion, disability or ethnic origin, having regard only to skills and competencies.
This policy is extended to existing employees and any change which may affect their personal circumstances.
The policy is supported by strategies for professional and career development.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 63
