DirectorsReport Business Review Chief Executive Officers review continued We have taken selected defence technologies into new and developing QNA markets, with particular emphasis on security and intelligence, QNAs key markets are defence, security and intelligence.
through direct exploitation, venturing and licensing.
As a technology With macro-economic forces impacting on the business climate, the company which is platform independent, we are able to select the best US Governments discretionary share of the national budget is likely technology or technologies to address the challenge, relevant to the to remain flat with only a minimal increase over its five-year customer need.
Develop, enhance and maintain our people skills However, QNAs targeted defence, security and intelligence market and resources sectors and its focus on high priority, critical areas means our available Our people are at the heart of our business and our future success market is in the most robust segments.
QNA is well positioned to depends on their creativity, motivation and commitment, their ability compete successfully in this dynamic marketplace and capture to identify customer needs and to exceed expectations in delivering increased market share.
Our main lines of current business are relatively unaffected by the We have an outstanding and highly qualified team across a broad major federal and national issues.
A portion of our clients are likely spectrum of disciplines including many internationally acknowledged to be positively impacted by shifting budget priorities.
As a Group we are also one of the best accredited in the not expected to be impacted by programme deletions and revised defence and security sector with some 95% of UK employees carrying schedules.
QNA is structured to succeed in many of the priority sectors MOD and national security clearances and over 75% of our US such as: Irregular Warfare, Cyber Security, Unmanned Vehicles and employees having security clearance within the DoD, DHS, US NASA Special Operations support.
and the US intelligence agencies.
Key components of the QNA growth strategy are strong performance We will continue to retain and recruit those with the intellectual on existing contracts and continuing to build the QNA brand as a capacity, technical and sector knowledge and the personal and technology leader and agile, responsive partner.
QNA is primarily a professional qualities to maintain our competitive edge in a services company that has significant technology advantages.
include the ability to develop, integrate and support technologies demanded by our customers.
This ability also enables us to seek We encourage innovation and invest in the development of technical opportunities in new and adjacent customer domains.
and management skills as well as recognising and promoting talent.
Apart from technical excellence which plays to our traditional QNA seeks to leverage both the QNA and EMEA developed strengths, we are developing an increasingly customer-focused technologies for accelerated growth and capitalise on new products culture which is vital to our international competitiveness and which advance our reputation and service offerings.
We invest to which we intend to embed with equal rigour across our businesses.
augment QNAs skills and build contract vehicles and qualifications to allow for continued success in targeted defence and security markets.
Our markets We also strive to remain a market leader in the recruitment and retention of personnel in the highly competitive US marketplace.
QinetiQ offers a broad portfolio of products, services and solutions We plan to continue our strategic communications campaigns and which improves our competitive position and provides resilience branding efforts to further strengthen our customer awareness.
We offer solutions across a wide range of platforms and through our technology insertion capability are QNA organic growth will be supplemented by carefully targeted flexible and responsive to changes within the marketplace.
acquisitions where these align with our strategy.
The majority of the Groups revenue arises from military, government Because QNA has been built as a result of strategically targeted and national security customers worldwide including the UK Ministry acquisitions, it is structured for continued growth and is located in of Defence MOD, US Department of Defense DoD, Department some of the best performing portions of the US federal defence and of Homeland Security DHS, National Aeronautics and Space security markets.
It has a strong backlog of clients, an extensive Administration NASA, Australian Department of Defence, UK portfolio of contracts and continues to grow market share.
National Security Agencies, the US security intelligence community and other UK Government agencies.
Historically, these customers have been largely resilient to the economic National defence spending cycle and provide the Group with a long-term growth model with budget authority current $bn defensive characteristics.
In addition, the nature of our long-term 800 contracts provides strong visibility.
We believe we are well positioned with a quality and broad customer 600 base across the markets in which we operate.
400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Base Recoveries act Overseas contingency enacted Overseas contingency proposed Source: US Government Budget 2010 14 www.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements Our service businesses typically see c75% of the next years revenue our platform independence allows us to draw in the appropriate in funded backlog or nearly assured funding from other contract components from wherever they sit in the supply chain, utilising our extensive network of partnerships with universities and SMEs, backlogs.
We have demonstrated success in converting additional and integrating these into the most appropriate solution to meet our unfunded backlog as well as utilising our General Services Administration customers requirements.
Whilst the results of our technology business GSA schedules and Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity IDIQ continue to be affected in the short term by the sharp decline in MOD contract ceiling into leading 12-month funded task orders.
We have research revenues, we are confident that in the medium term our a high degree of success in recompeting our current contracts.
strategy will give us a strong competitive position because of our QNA has developed market penetration plans for expanding presence ability to extend the life and improve the capability of existing in existing markets and in some cases entering new markets.
Its focus equipment when new equipment programmes become unaffordable.
remains on key technologies and mission priorities that fulfil the We also expect to see increasing international collaboration leading to demands of clients in the defence and security markets.
Areas of a growth in export sales from our technology business, particularly focus are our global capabilities and specifically for QNA: Unmanned into the US through QNA.
Systems, Logistics, Contract R&D, Armour, IT and Mission Software The Consulting business grew strongly during the year thanks, in part, Solutions and Energy Environment.
to a successful diversification out of its core defence markets by growing US Defence new revenue in the security, energy and environment domains.
We The US defence market is by far the worlds largest accessible market expect this strategy to continue to deliver growth in the future.
At the macro level, the Global War on Terror funding is Managed Services focuses on strategic opportunities, mainly in expected to continue to decline over the coming years and there are the defence domain, where the application of technology and also likely to be some delays and in some instances cancellations of deep domain knowledge allows us to offer a superior, value for programmes.
However, the sectors of the discretionary budget that money service to our customers.
This business revolves around QNA targets $275bn are expected to see continued growth.
Also in the winning and delivering of a relatively small number of large our addressable market for DoD $200bn we project growth of 3-5% contracts.
We remain confident this business can grow in the current per year.
Within this, the Operations and Maintenance O&M portion climate, where knowledgeable responsive and affordable support of the defence budget is expected to continue growth.
This is a key services are increasingly key elements in maintaining our defence source of QNA revenue.
As Iraq is stabilised and the US withdraws, it is anticipated that there UK Defence will be a build up in Afghanistan.
This may affect QNAs DoD business The UK Government completed its latest Comprehensive Spending as a result of potential reductions or alterations in Unmanned Ground Review in late 2007 covering the next three years.
It concluded that the Vehicle UGV demand.
However, we expect this to be offset by increases defence budget would grow at an average of 1.5% per annum in real in demand in Afghanistan, force recapitalisation and international terms over three years.
However, with significant current campaigns sales.
The ongoing military operations will also drive demand for MOD has confirmed that budgets are under pressure and there have logistics, and other restocking activities that continue to be important been delays in letting contracts.
With budgets under pressure, MOD revenue sources for QNA.
is looking for opportunities to deliver existing programmes more cost effectively and QinetiQ is well placed for such opportunities.
US Security and Intelligence QNA is well placed to drive growth in adjacent non-defence markets Urgent Operational Requirements UORs for current operations have such as security and counter-terrorism.
continued at a high level with the focus now firmly on Afghanistan.
EMEA has played an active role in fulfilling the need to be responsive Over the next few years, intelligence community budgets are expected to the UOR programme and the needs of MODs technology insertion to increase, albeit at a slower rate than previously.
Our DHS contracts programme as well as providing advice to enhance existing should continue to see robust funding.
The NASA programmes QNA military capabilities.
supports all have projected budget growth.
In December, MOD announced the conclusions of its Equipment QNA provides services in the federal IT market which have been Examination resulting in a delay to several main programmes, none subject to significant budget pressures but QNAs offerings in this of which significantly impact upon us.
In addition, it announced further market are highly technical, built on a strong foundation of excellent enhancements to helicopter programmes with confirmation of the customer relationships and a strong cadre of security cleared Future Lynx and engine upgrades to in-service Lynx helicopters.
This employees, ensuring that this business is well placed within the has increased opportunities for provision of advice into MOD on how more robust, high-end sector of this marketplace.
to cope with emerging capability gaps and technology insertion as a An important new market initiative for QNA is the cyber security solution to some of those gaps.
The funding in this area is substantial $6bn per year and growing.
QNA is positioned to compete successfully in this emerging market due to its focused acquisition strategy and established UK actual and projected defence spending bn positions in key customer organisations.
40 EMEA EMEAs primary markets are defence, security and intelligence, and 30 energy and environment.
A key part of our strategy over the last few years has been to reposition the business to benefit from MODs need 20 for support as they reshape major programmes.
In particular, our Technology Solutions business, formed by the merger 10 of Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies, has increasingly focused on opportunities to combine our deep domain knowledge 0 with our ability to identify and integrate technologies into optimised, 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 value for money solutions and services.
Whilst technologies originating from within the business very often form part of these solutions, Source: UK Ministry of Defence Defence plan published in June 2008 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 DirectorsReport Business Review Chief Executive Officers review continued MODs research budget fell in the current year and this trend is likely Our objective is to provide our customers with leading-edge security to continue this year.
We are adjusting our business model to reflect capability.
With decades of experience in solving security problems these changes.
For example, we are undertaking more partnering and for both Government and commercial customers, our expertise and looking at other routes to market which will position us well in the products range across all aspects of the sophisticated and integrated medium to long term.
The MOD has instituted a number of reforms security response that is required by our operational customers.
to its delivery of research, specifically the establishment of the Centre Energy & Environment for Defence Enterprise, the launch of the updated Defence Technology Fears over the risks and impact of climate change coupled with Plan and the formation of Centres of Excellence for Defence Technology concerns over the availability of reliable energy supplies and the cost CDT.
These CDTs bring together the best from academia, industry and of energy have all led to energy and environmental issues being at the the MOD.
One of the first of these is the Weapons Technology Centre, top of Government and company agendas.
Economic development is led by QinetiQ as an integral part of the Team Complex Weapons dependent on energy and, despite the current economic downturn, consortium.
In February this year, MOD announced five Capability the longer-term forecasts are for a significant increase in global energy Visions to demonstrate how technology can be harnessed to solve consumption over the next two decades.
We are well placed to play a part in all five of these.
including the UK, are grappling with how to provide more energy that MOD is continuing to reform the Defence Equipment and Support is reliable and affordable whilst being mindful of the risks created by organisation through implementation of the PACE Performance, Agility, climate change.
PACE includes both up-skilling and outsourcing, both being activities where we can play a part.
Whilst nearly every organisation has a potential need for solutions to its energy or environmental challenges, our primary focus is in four key MOD continues to utilise partnering and outsourcing.
MODs award to market sectors: EMEA of the Maritime Strategic Capability Agreement illustrates the partnering role that we can play.
The Long Term Partnering Agreement Oil and Gas where by applying our breadth and depth of technical between the MOD and ourselves is now into its second five-year term expertise in areas such as materials, sensors and communications, and the Defence Training Rationalisation is expected to reach financial we are able to provide oil companies with the means of enhancing close in 2010. the recovery of hydrocarbons from increasingly difficult and inaccessible locations.
The global spend on Exploration and In responding to the changing challenges of the UK defence market, Production sensors and systems was estimated at $1bn in 2008. we continue to pay close attention to our costs and our skills base, ensuring that both are appropriate for the environment in which we Renewables where our skills in key disciplines such as hydrodynamics, work and that profitability and productivity can be sustained and aerodynamics, radar and materials help our customers deploy improved wherever possible.
renewable energy systems and maximise their efficiency.
In the UK alone, it is estimated that in order to reach the Governments target of Australian Defence 15% of energy generated from renewable sources by 2020, somewhere As set out in the Australian White Paper issued in May 2009, the in the region of 6,000 new offshore wind turbines will be required.
Australian defence budget is anticipated to grow at an average of 3% Lower Carbon Vehicles where our defence experience in batteries, per year until 2017 18.
The size of the 2009 10 budget is AUS$26.6bn, fuel cells, vehicle drive trains and power management systems enables which is 2% of Australias GDP, up from 1.8% in 2008 09. us to work with customers in the automotive sector as they adapt The QinetiQ Australia group provides solutions advice and engineering to meet legislative requirements for vehicle emissions.
Transport is services into the Australian defence market where the military demands responsible for 22% of the UKs CO2 emissions and is a sector where are very similar to those of the US and the UK.
faster technological developments are required in order to offset the emissions from the forecast rise in traffic volumes.
Other Defence Markets We provide services across a range of international defence markets.
Civil Aerospace where our knowledge in materials, structures, As these markets develop, demand is becoming more focused on aerodynamics, fuels and gas turbines enables us to work with aircraft procuring bespoke technology solutions to retain the life of a platform manufacturers and their supply chains to make aviation more or capability.
Our services are becoming increasingly relevant, for sustainable.
The ongoing debate on the third runway at Heathrow example, to customers in India and the Middle East.
highlights the environmental pressures that the industry is under at the moment and we are well placed to help introduce new and UK Security and Intelligence radically green technologies into the next generation of aircraft.
Events in recent years have highlighted the requirement for sophisticated security planning, well-rehearsed operational arrangements and vital equipment capability.
The interconnected world increasingly requires an agile, highly responsive and integrated approach to security that is optimised for both national and international requirements.
This comprehensive approach must be capable of dealing with a wide range of potential threats.
Our contribution to national and international security is focused on strategic advice and the delivery of technology-based services and Graham Love, Chief Executive Officer solutions to enhance national and global stability.
The requirements of 21 May 2009 the UK National Security Strategy, issued in March 2008, are our focus.
We work in close support with all of the governmental organisations responsible for countering terrorism, providing law enforcement and ensuring the integrity of the UKs critical national infrastructure, especially the global transportation and logistic supply chains and crucial energy security requirements.
We also provide security capability and services in support of major events and facilities.
