DirectorsReport Business Review Our businesses Building a leading global business QinetiQ North America Strengthening our presence QinetiQ North America has established itself as a major provider of technology-based services and solutions across the United States.
See pages 26-28 Managed Services provides long-term, technology-rich outsourced Europe, Middle East and services to Government and independent accreditation and technical services to Government and industry.
Australasia Consulting offers technical advice to customers in the areas of defence, Building valuable new market positions security, transportation, aerospace, energy, environment and safety.
EMEA is focused on providing technology Technology Solutions EMEA delivers capability to customers through services and solutions to the defence, integrated solutions, niche sub-systems, products and services.
Its business covers manned platforms, autonomous systems and command security and energy & environment markets.
Ventures is the pipeline through which we manage our portfolio of emerging technologies.
Principal Customers UK Ministry of Defence MOD US Department of Defense DoD UK National Security Agencies Other UK Government agencies Australian Department of Defence.
# Share of Group revenue Number of employees 2009 2009 55% 53% 7,712 851.7m employees # including Ventures including Ventures and Corporate 4 www.
com B Bu us si in ne es ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l s St ta at te em me en nt ts s We are a leader in defence and security technology-based services and solutions with over 14,000 employees operating across the world.
Mission Solutions delivers solutions, services and products based on specialised mission knowledge to defence, space, intelligence and homeland security agencies.
Systems Engineering offers engineering, software development, integration, logistics information management and test and evaluation support for the development, modification, fielding and sustainment of military equipment and systems.
Technology Solutions QNA provides high technology research services and development of defence and security related products to the US Defence, government and the commercial market.
Principal Customers US Department of Defense DoD Share of Group revenue Number of employees US Department of Homeland Security DHS US National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA US intelligence and security community.
2009 2009 45% 47% 6,348 765.6m employees See pages 29-31 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
