DirectorsReport Business Review Chief Executive Officers review continued Overview of operations continued Our strategic vision In North America, QNA is very focused on resilient markets.
Our services As we move into the next phase of growth we will continue to businesses can capitalise further on the positions we have and see develop the key strands of our strategy driving a further round defence, security, intelligence and cyber security as particularly attractive of  development.
Our recent acquisitions put us in a good position to establish We anticipate further collaboration between our businesses, extending ourselves as a leading provider in these fields.
We believe we are well our geographical reach, deepening our penetration of selected target placed to respond to the priorities of the new US Administration and markets and building the QinetiQ brand internationally in services, position our QNA business for sustainable double-digit revenue growth products and solutions.
As a result of the successful execution of these strategies and the In EMEA, we continue to face a declining MOD research budget and delivery of substantial, real growth over the past five years, the time expect this to continue into 2010, albeit research only represents 15% has come for us to raise the bar in certain areas and move to the of EMEA revenues.
The increasing trend towards partnering will help us next stage of development.
Accordingly, where appropriate, we defend our market share although this results in the passing through have expanded our horizons to take advantage of new emerging of some value to partners.
We expect the MODs budget pressures will opportunities in an international context and, consequently, we continue to affect the awarding of business in general.
However, have refreshed and refined our Group strategies.
through our proven ability to insert and integrate technology, we are well positioned to respond to new and existing customer needs, Our principal Group strategies for the next stage of our development particularly where flexibility and value for money are at a premium.
are to: We believe that MOD budget pressures will actually play to our core strengths of extending the life and capability of existing equipment Build and maintain existing relationships as a more cost-effective alternative to buying new equipment and Our focus for the future is on addressing real problems which are outsourcing services which can be more efficiently carried out in the critical to our customers success and which need innovative, value for private sector.
As we broaden our exposure in certain security markets money solutions.
Our intimate understanding of the challenges faced and internationally, we see the opportunity to grow EMEA in mid single by our customers and the environment in which we operate, together digits in the medium term, once the research income has stabilised.
with the strength of our relationships with them, are key to our Meanwhile, we are carefully controlling our cost base to protect successful growth in the future.
Having reorganised the EMEA business into market-facing sectors last year, we plan further increases in efficiency during the As a Group we have a long established position in the UK market coming year by optimising utilisation and reducing duplication.
serving the UK MOD and over the past five years have also built a As a result, we expect to reduce our head-count by approximately substantial market position in the US as a supplier of solutions and 400 during the course of the year, generating annualised savings of services to the US Department of Defense and the Department of approximately 14m, resulting in an estimated exceptional cost of Homeland Security as well as other government agencies.
This programme should complete early in the fourth quarter.
work closely with other major industrial companies, sometimes as a subcontractor and sometimes as a prime, to deliver tangible The Defence Training Rationalisation DTR programme continued solutions to our end customers.
to proceed with our new partner in the Metrix consortium, Sodexo, coming on board at the beginning of January 2009.
Planning applications Our ability to work as a reliable partner and supplier alongside for the new facility have been submitted.
The MOD expects to submit Government customers and agencies on a wide variety of key DTR to its Main Gate 2 approval process after the summer in 2009.
We, projects reflects the strength of these long-term relationships.
and the customer, are still working for a 2010 financial close.
During the year, we incurred a further 10.0m of bid costs 2008: 7.1m.
Develop selected global capabilities We will continue to develop global capabilities which can exploit We have started the new financial year with a further strengthening synergies in different countries to address selected world markets.
of the Groups presence in North America through the acquisition of Cyveillance, Inc, a provider of online monitoring technology to identify Our robotics business in QNA has illustrated the potential of this and track data in cyberspace.
This acquisition should complete, approach with early research contracts leading to the creation of a following regulatory approval, in June 2009.
This reshaping of the successful product range which meets real customer needs across Group for the future includes a programme of disposals from amongst a range of geographies and applications.
our inventory of technologies where others have the market reach to Historically, we have developed expertise across a broad spectrum but, capture more value than we readily can.
As part of this, we have signed as we move forward, we will also build a series of closely integrated a disposal contract for our Underwater Systems Business, subject to regulatory approval, which will generate 23.5m of proceeds.
capabilities in which we have world-leading skills and market potential.
com Business Review Governance Financial Statements The initial priorities include: and our market-leading positions especially in robotics.
QNA also provides an additional channel to market for selected UK capabilities Autonomy and Robotics We are pioneers in the development which extend our international reach.
We will continue to seek out of unmanned air systems and a world leader in military robotics.
markets which we can provide fit for purpose technology-based This is a growing market for the future as the demand for both offerings which exploit market trends and are the focus of Government products and services is likely to increase in this field.
We are extracting greater synergies across Sensors and Spectrum We can help customers determine these businesses as we seek to integrate our offering internationally.
whether incorporating or improving sensor technology is the In EMEA we will continue to build our successful managed services and right solution for them.
With advances in technology, the role consultancy businesses in the UK and other existing markets not only which both electromagnetic and acoustic sensors can play in with DTR, currently the largest single contract opportunity in the their spectra is key.
defence market, but also in the growing security and energy and Training and Simulation We can harness the power of simulation environment markets and other adjacent markets.
With an increasing to support decision-making and training at all levels, from concept focus on the development of our technology businesses in the development to in-service support.
The cost of live exercises and provision not only of research but further added value exploitation training can be significant for customers finding effective ways opportunities, we are focused on establishing leading positions in key to train and provide a mission-ready team is crucial.
sectors where the Group has or can develop good routes to market.
Cyber Security and Resilience Our experience in the security The merger of our Integrated Systems and Applied Technologies field enables us to develop products and services that address businesses in EMEA forming the Technology Solutions business creates the challenges posed by the need for improved digital security.
greater critical mass and will assist in the development of large-scale Group-wide collaborative programmes.
In each of these areas we will use our international reach to build global capabilities focusing on the delivery of high value added solutions.
Outside our home markets in the UK, US and Australia, we will seek to exploit opportunities to develop our business selectively in other To facilitate these developments we are making some changes in our international markets.
We are aligning our capability and sector structures, enabling greater cross-working of teams to develop Maintain a leading position in key areas of defence and opportunities within these capability areas.
We are setting up continue expansion into other adjacent markets working groups to exploit the market opportunities and strengthen Through the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA managed services our international capability and reach.
This will drive international, contract we benefit from in-depth knowledge of a diverse customer Group-wide collaboration on bigger programmes.
The key is to give the and contract base, comprising multiple MOD customers in the UK, organisation the flexibility and agility to allow it to continuously adapt as well as a broad range of commercial customers.
Our expansion in to market developments.
The merger of our UK Integrated Systems and Australia has been a key part of the EMEA strategy to build valuable Applied Technologies businesses to form Technology Solutions EMEA new market positions and our business is focused on leveraging its will help in this, giving greater critical mass and putting a flatter, more existing relationships with the Australian Department of Defence.
responsive and cost effective, customer-facing structure in place.
In North America, QNA has an important position within the worlds largest defence and security market.
Strengthen and develop our international reach and presence Our agility and flexibility are key attributes which are highly valued We have successfully built QNA into a major US player which now by our customers.
In the Global War on Terror we position ourselves to represents some 47% of our worldwide revenues.
Most recently, assist our customers in the armed forces and Government agencies to we have also built QinetiQ Australia into a business of around deploy rapidly, where required, to be mobile, inter-operable with allies and to equip them with the most modern technological systems.
We will continue to build our business in these geographies and also across other international markets where In the UK we have a market-leading position in the MOD research we believe opportunities exist.
We also align ourselves closely with our defence We will further develop our Mission Solutions business organically customers needs and are well positioned to respond to the growing emphasis on the rapid application and insertion of technology to adapt and through selected acquisitions, building on existing customer and upgrade existing equipment.
The Harrier Through-Life Support relationships and by moving progressively to meet the growing requirements of the cyber security market, as illustrated by the recent contract illustrates the benefit that technology insertion can provide.
announcement of our acquisition of Cyveillance, Inc. We plan to grow Under this contract we provide independent technical services and deliver a multi-functional support programme that underpins our Systems Engineering business with an emphasis on organic through-life management of the platform and provides flexibility development of established customer relationships.
In QNA we will build on the strong organic growth achieved in Technology Solutions and value for money to MOD.
Group revenue m five-year trend Group underlying operating profit m five-year trend 1,600 1,400 155.0 1,200 127.0 1,000 106.0 800 90.7 600 65.2 9.6% 400 9.2% 9.3% 8.6% 7.6% 200 0 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 EMEA including Ventures QNA CAGR 17% Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit margin QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
