01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 5 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K DIRECTORS Philippe Litard D Mark Bristow # Chief executive Non-executive chairman Chief executive since its incorporation of Randgold, Managing director of the Global Natural Resources which was founded on his pioneering exploration Fund from 2000 to 2003.
Prior to July 2000, he work in West Africa.
Has subsequently led the was director of the Oil, Gas and Mining Department companys growth through the discovery and of the International Finance Corporation.
His development of world-class assets into a major experience in corporate and project finance with gold mining business with a market capitalisation UBS, IFC and the World Bank extends over of more than US$6 billion.
Has also played a 30 years, most of them in the minerals business significant part in promoting the emergence of a and in Africa.
Now an independent consultant sustainable mining industry in West Africa.
A and a promoter of mining and energy investments.
geologist with a PhD from Natal University, South Appointed a director in February 1998 and Africa, has held board positions at a number chairman in November 2004. of global mining companies and is currently a nonexecutive director of Rockwell Resources International.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 06 Composite 01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 6 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Photographed in January 2010 while inspecting the newly constructed dam wall at the Tongon mines main water storage facility: board members from left to right Kadri Dagdelen, Christopher Coleman, Robert Israel, Graham Shuttleworth, Mark Bristow, Philippe Litard, Karl Voltaire, Jon Walden and Norborne Cole Jr. Graham Shuttleworth Robert I Israel Financial director Non-executive Joined Randgold as chief financial officer and financial Until April 2000, a managing director of Schroder & Co director in July 2007 but had been associated with the Inc and head of its energy department, he is now partner company since its inception, initially as part of its at Compass Advisers, LLP.
He holds a BA from management team involved in listing the company on Middlebury College and an MBA from Harvard Business the LSE in 1997, and subsequently as an advisor.
His experience in corporate finance, especially A chartered accountant, he was a managing director in the natural resources sector, extends over 30 years.
and the New York-based head of metals and mining for Joined the Randgold board in 1997. the Americas in the global investment banking division $ of HSBC before taking up his new position at Randgold.
Karl Voltaire At HSBC he led or was involved in a wide range of Independent non-executive major mining industry transactions, including Randgolds A graduate in mineral resources engineering from the Nasdaq listing, and subsequent equity offerings.
Ecole des Mines in Paris, he holds an MBA and a PhD in economics and finance from the University of Chicago.
@ Norborne P Cole Jr He started his career as a mining engineer in Haiti and Senior independent non-executive subsequently spent 23 years in the World Bank Group Started working for the Coca-Cola Company as a field in Washington DC, the bulk of these at the International representative in the USA in 1966 and advanced steadily Finance Corporation IFC where his last position was through the organisation, becoming chief executive of that of director of global financial markets.
Subsequently Coca-Cola Amatil in Australia in 1994, a position he held he was director of the Office of President at the African until 1998.
Under his leadership, Coca-Cola Amatil grew Development Bank.
He was the CEO of the Nelson into the second largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.
Mandela Institution from 2005 to 2009, and is currently Now based in San Antonio, Texas, he serves on the a member of the Board of Trustees of the African University boards of a number of US companies.
Became a director of Science and Technology.
Was appointed to the of Randgold in May 2006.
$ Christopher Coleman Jon Walden Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Co-head of banking at NM Rothschild, a director of A chartered accountant, he is the senior independent NM Rothschild & Sons, chairman of Rothschild Bank director at Morgan Sindall plc and chairman of International in the Channel Islands and serves on a HR Owen plc.
He was formerly the managing director number of other boards and committees of the Rothschild of Lex, the UKs leading vehicle leasing company and a Group, which he joined in 1989.
A BSc Econ graduate subsidiary of HBOS, and was a former main board from the London School of Economics, he served as a director of RAC plc, where he held a number of senior non-executive director of the Merchant Bank of Central positions during his executive career.
He was appointed Africa from 2001 to 2008.
Was appointed to the Randgold to the Randgold board in November 2008. board in November 2008.
Kadri Dagdelen Independent non-executive A professor and head of the Department of Mining Engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, USA, he began his professional career as a mining engineer at Homestake Mining Co now Barrick Gold Corporation and was the technical services manager when he left for academia in 1992.
With a PhD in Mining Engineering and an ME in Geostatistics he has been involved in numerous research and consulting projects worldwide, also serving on the board of directors of the Society of # Chairman of nomination and governance committee Chairman of audit committee Mining, Exploration and Metallurgy in USA for six years @ Chairman of remuneration committee and chairing other professional societies that support Member of nomination and governance committee the mining industry.
He joined the Randgold board in Member of audit committee $ January 2010.
Member of remuneration committee RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 07 Composite
