54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 22 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K strike towards the northeast.
Two generations of folding can be observed on the imagery: one set with the fold axis striking west-northwest and the other with fold At Kibali, a geological analysis was axis strike northeast together with the development of brittle-ductile shears.
completed to review the structural and lithological controls of the KCD deposit as The radiometric survey results clearly indicated the presence of granites within the well as to look at the possibility of a lateral survey area, and assisted in identifying the remaining geology.
There is evidence link between the KCD and Gorumbwa that the Watsa dome is composed of two different magmatic events, with the one deposits.
northeast portion having a weak potassium enrichment, and the other southwest portion having a weak thorium with some uranium enrichment.
In 2010 we are planning an airborne electromagnetic survey over the permit area to enhance our geological understanding of the region and target new resource opportunities.
Resource drilling Forty four diamond drill holes were completed at KCD, targeting the definition of pit underground interface and infill drilling within the open pit boundary.
All drilling results are shown in the table below and confirm the geological model.
The top grade cut is 50g t: the lower grade cut is 0.8g t with up to a maximum of 4 metres internal dilution being incorporated into the composite.
At present the intersections recorded are down the hole lengths.
Strategic holes: KCD - Gorumbwa gap drilling Two holes were completed for 1 556.7 metres.
The objectives were to: Obtain a better understanding of the geology as there is little outcrop west of Durba hill: Test for additional alteration structural corridors: and Evaluate the potential of linking mineralisation between KCD and Gorumbwa.
In DDD456 a 45 metre wide deformed and altered Si and pyrite zone was intersected from 515 to 560 metres.
Within it, anomalous sections grade: 7 metres at 1.63g t 515 to 522 metres, 8.05 metres at 3.43g t 536.75 to DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF 544.8 metres and 4.2 metres THE CONGO EXPLORATION at 1.15g t. This zone may be linked with Sessenge towards the southeast, which would extend Sessenge for about CENTRAL AFRICAN 150 metres further northwest, REPUBLIC CAMEROON while results for DDD457 returned multiple mineralised zones with a best intersection of 3.1 metres at 4.75g t from KENYA 450 metres.
The data is being CONGO integrated into an updated GABON DEMOCRATIC geological model and REPUBLIC additional drill holes will be OF CONGO BURUNDI planned to further evaluate Kinshasa the potential of this area.
TANZANIA Regional soil sampling The regional soil sampling programme on the priority 1 area has progressed well.
ANGOLA Four new anomalous areas were identified based on gold Archean in soil values above 9ppb.
All Mesoproterozoic are located within the Kibali permits prospective volcaniclastic 600km Capital city sediments which host the main Kibali mineralisation.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 75 Composite
