54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 19 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Results for this trench returned: 15 metres at 2.42g t including 9.10 metres at 3.30g t. TNT092 collared in the granodiorite 50 metres northwest of the current wireframe appears massive and only weakly altered haematite, with north-south and northeast trending quartz veins dipping 60-70 to the southeast.
A smaller sub parallel zone covers a strike length of 200 metres.
This zone is hosted within an intercalated package of tuff and volcaniclastic crosscut by discrete shears trending 268, dipping 78 to the north and associated with a subvertical strongly silicified zone trending 140.
A storm drain excavated to the west of this zone provided exposure and confirmed the northwest trending silicified zone STD001 - 6 metres at 0.39g t. Seydou The Seydou target was a conceptual target from the prospectivity analysis.
The regional Soumo Shear was re-interpreted to be a sheared fold closure.
Detailed soil sampling returned two distinct, gold in soil anomalies Seydou East and Seydou West.
Seydou East The eastern anomaly is a 400 metre wide, 2 kilometre long plus 50ppb gold in soil anomaly.
Pitting identified a narrow less than one metre discrete silicified shear with selective litho samples grading to a maximum value of 26.7g t. All other results have been received and returned values up to 0.15g t from saprolite of shale.
Work to date suggests that the soil anomaly may be attributed to these narrow silicified shears.
Follow-up work is in progress.
Seydou West TONGON: NIELLE PERMIT AND The western target is a 3.6 kilometre SEYDOU AEROMAG discontinuous, due to regolith, plus 100ppb gold in soil anomaly trending north-northeast.
Initial pitting has confirmed an insitu bedrock gold Nielle permit source.
The controlling structure geological interpretation appears to be the continuation of Soloni and priority the Tongon Northern Zone orebody targets bounding shear.
Preliminary litho Seydou Aeromag showing samples returned encouraging values: position of Seydou East and Koro NW Extn 0.15g t, 2.45g t and 18.10g t from West targets quartz and silicified material.
Jubula Coucal Seydou Following reconnaissance pitting, a Nafoun E Tongon deposit 50 metre trench was excavated to observe the geology, structure, alteration and potential mineralisation.
Badenou The trench returned strong gold 19m @ 5.32g t incl 11m @ 7.87g t mineralisation with an intersection of Nafoun S Seydou E 19 metres at 5.32g t including Calao 11 metres at 7.87g t associated with Koulivogo Seydou W region strong to moderate silicification of volcaniclastic together with a quartz Tongon NZ 10km stockwork and boxworks surrounding a main quartz vein which is 0.7 metres 2km Gold targets wide and trends 030 70.
Additional wide spaced 500 metres trenching is planned over the entire RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 72 Composite 54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 20 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K 3.6 kilometre target to provide a broad geological framework and, depending on results, a drilling motivation will be prepared.
Data from an airborne electromagnetic survey of the Nielle permit and the adjacent Diouala and Fapoha permits on the Senoufo Jubula Greenstone Belt will be integrated with Jubula is a new target identified from the prospectivity analysis.
Soil sampling existing layers to further refine the targeting returned a main northeast trending, 3.8 kilometre discontinuous gold in soil anomaly.
Regional pitting identified the occurrence of two volcanoclastic units separated by basalt and shale.
The duplication may represent part of a sheared out fold hinge.
It locates approximately two kilometres north of Seydou.
A programme of trenching will be completed as initial follow-up.
Bazou Bazou is located nine kilometres north northeast of the Tongon resource and overlies the contact between granodiorite, tuff and siltstone, cut by the dextral Main Shear Zone MSZ.
Bazou was highlighted where the MSZ horsetails into several splays resulting in the development of an extensional imbricate fan.
2 Detailed soil sampling covering a 6km 200 metres by 50 metres grid was completed.
The updated regolith map shows that much of the area is covered by lateritic gravel with vast areas of lower laterite and a few isolated upper laterite plateaux.
Suboutcrop occurs in the east of the grid where three lithosamples of chert with pyrite and pyrrhotite were taken results received returned values less than 0.1g t. Two zones of hummocky ground, 1.7 kilometres apart, were mapped in the centre of the target representing old artisanal workings.
The south of the grid is truncated by a southwest flowing river.
Complete soil sampling results have been received, highlighting a linear 040 trending 100ppb gold in soil anomaly measuring 3.8 kilometres by 100 metres with a maximum value of 1 162ppb.
The anomaly is truncated by alluvial cover and continues southwest into Jubula.
Pitting has been difficult due to the hard laterite cover and RAB drilling is proposed as a method of primary follow-up.
Koro Northwest Extension Geologically the target overlies the contact between tuff and granodiorite where 2 the MSZ intersects the Oleo Shear zone.
Detailed soil sampling covering 14km by a 200 metre by 50 metre grid was completed.
The regolith map was also updated and shows that much of the area is covered by lateritic gravel, with a few isolated upper laterite plateaus and sub-crops on the erosional slopes in the west of the sampling grid.
A large west flowing river splits the target in two and sandy soil was mapped in the southeast of the grid suggesting underlying granodiorite and thus confirming the aeromagnetic interpretation.
Soil sampling results are pending.
Generative studies Preparations are currently underway to fly an airborne electromagnetic survey, not only over the Nielle permit, which hosts the Tongon deposit, but also the adjacent Diouala and Fapoha permits on the Senoufo Greenstone Belt.
This data will be integrated with our existing layers to further refine our targeting process in 2010.
Randgold secured an additional permit through its joint venture with New Mining Cte dIvoire, Tengrela South, which is contiguous with the Boundiali permit.
Boundiali 2 The 1 314km Boundiali permit is located approximately 60 kilometres west of Nielle and hosts numerous gold in soil anomalies, which have seen little follow-up exploration.
During 2009, early stage exploration validated previous results and reprioritised work for 2010.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 73 Composite
