01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 17 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K MARKET OVERVIEW Gold price rises for ninth consecutive year, reaching high of US$1 212 oz Investor sentiment underpins golds role as safe haven and store of value The gold price rose for the ninth consecutive year in 2009, increasing by 25% from US$870 to US$1 088.
The average gold price for the year rose by 11.5% from an average of US$872 in 2008 to US$972 for 2009, reaching a historic high of US$1 212 per ounce in December.
The strong performance of the gold price is the result of a combination of factors.
Gold benefited from investors pursuing its safe haven status, and the large increase in money supply pumped into the markets, creating concerns about inflationary pressure down the line, also supported its price.
Investment demand has further been lifted by the large increase in investors seeking protection against US dollar depreciation, record levels of producer fide-hedging, and low interest rates accompanied by the expectation that rates will remain close to zero for a long time.
Unease about rising government debt and counterparty credits risk also added to the allure of gold.
The increase in investment demand was evident in strong inflows into physically-backed ETFs.
Although jewellery demand started to recover towards the end of 2009, it is not playing any major role in the price surge.
On the supply side, flat mining output, weaker recycling and a fall in central bank sales provided important support for the gold price.
Goldfields Mineral Services estimates that net official sector sales in 2009 fell to 24 tonnes.
This is the lowest level in two decades, and is almost 90% lower than the prior year.
The substantial decline is primarily the result of lower sales by the Central Bank Gold Agreement CBGA signatories.
Total sales for the year 2009 amounted to 157 tonnes, which is significantly lower than the 500 tonne maximum quota.
During the first part of the year demand was driven by investors moving away from risky assets and ongoing concerns about the health of the global financial system.
During the second half of the year support for the gold price came from a negative US dollar outlook and developing countries increasing their gold holdings.
Although the world economy started to show signs of recovery during the second half of 2009, the pace remains slow and uncertain, leaving the motivation for lower interest rates and monetary easing intact.
This should underpin the role of gold as a safe haven and a store of value role.
In the longer term the fundamentals for gold appear positive as strong structural demand from newly industrialising economies, finite supply and rising extraction cost should continue to support the market.
