32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 11 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K MASSAWA PRO ECT The Massawa project is situated in eastern Senegal, approximately 75 kilometres west of the border with Mali.
Randgold holds an effective 83.25% interest in the project.
The government of Senegal retains a 10% carried interest in the project while the balance is held by a Senegalese joint venture partner.
During the first quarter of the year a scoping study was completed on the Massawa inferred resource reported in the 2008 annual report.
This study indicated that the project passed the companys hurdle rates and consequently the board approved its progress to prefeasibility.
This prefeasibility was completed by year end and included 60 000 metres of drilling designed to infill the previous inferred resource.
Further metallurgical testwork was undertaken to determine bond work indices and evaluate potential metallurgical process routes.
Baseline environmental and social and economic studies were completed.
GEOLOGY The Massawa gold project is located within the Kounemba permit in Eastern Senegal which geologically lies within the 150 kilometre long Mako belt, itself part of the Kedougou-Kniba Inlier KKI, the westernmost exposed part of the Paleoproterozoic Birimian terrain.
The volcanic belt and sedimentary basin rocks are divided into the Mako supergroup in the west and the Dial-Dalma SENEGAL: MASSAWA PROJECT MASSAWA MALI Dakar SENEGAL BURKINA Bamako FASO Ouagadougou GUINEA SIERRA LEONE CTE DIVOIRE GHANA LIBERIA Birimian Belt Accra Proterozoic Plutonic rocks Abidjan Randgold permits 600km Capital city RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 42 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 12 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Prefeasibility delivers 1.5Moz of reserves at 4.64g t and points to more upside potential Feasibility study scheduled for completion by year end Exploration on the 8 kilometre structure continues MASSAWA: OREBODIES WITH PERMIT MAP 0.5 1.0g t Kounemba 1.0 2.0g t NZ2 and LE permit 2.0 3.0g t 3.0 4.0g t NZ1 4.0 10g t Massawa project on the Kounemba permit in Senegal 10g t Massawa CZ MZ 1 000m Northern Zone 2 Lion Extension Northern Zone 1 Massawa resource block model with Central Zone US$700 oz pit designs 1 000m MASSAWA: TOTAL RESERVES supergroups in the east.
The Mako AND RESOURCES supergroup comprises maficultramafic and felsic volcanic rocks Reserves intruded by granitoids that form the Resources Kakadian batholith.
A regional crustal Moz scale shear zone, the Main 4 Transcurrent Shear Zone MTZ with 3 northeast-southwest trend, exploits the lithological contact between the 2 Mako and the Dial-Dalma Supergroups and is the host structure 1 to mineralisation at Massawa.
0 08 09 RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 43 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 13 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K MINERAL RESOURCES AND ORE RESERVES As part of the completion of the prefeasibility study a revised mineral resource was completed, including the delineation of a revised geological model.
MASSAWA: MINERAL RESOURCES Attributable gold Tonnes Grade Gold Moz at 31 December 2009 Category Mt g t Moz 83% OPEN PIT Indicated 17.43 4.16 2.33 1.94 UNDERGROUND Inferred 6.24 3.39 0.68 0.57 Open pit mineral resources are those insitu mineral resources at 0g t gold cut-off falling inside the US$1 000 oz pit shell.
Underground mineral resources are those insitu mineral resources at a 2g t gold cutoff falling below the US$1 000 oz pit shell.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity of gold attributable to Randgold based on its 83% interest in the Massawa gold project.
Mineral resources were calculated by Mr Babacar Diouf, a Qualified Person and officer of the company.
Pit optimisations were carried out at a US$700 per ounce gold price and were used for the pit design and scheduling to produce the following mineral reserves for an open pit option.
MASSAWA: MINERAL RESERVES Attributable gold Tonnes Grade Gold Moz at 31 December 2009 Category Mt g t Moz 83% OPEN PIT Probable 10.51 4.62 1.56 1.30 Mineral reserves are calculated at US$700 oz gold price and include dilution and ore loss.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on its 83% interest in the Massawa gold project.
Mineral reserves was calculated by Mr Onno ten Brinke, a Qualified Person and officer of the company.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 81.
PREFEASIBILITY STUDY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PARAMETERS The prefeasibility was based on the above reserves and a summary of the key aspects of the study are documented below.
Open pit mining Contractor mining costs of US$2.76 per tonne have been assumed, based on estimated Tongon contractor costs, adjusted for the load profiles at Massawa.
Due to the thin nature of the geological model and high gold grades, the strip ratios are relatively high at 11.7:1.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 44 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 14 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Processing The prediction of overall recoveries for Massawa has been based on calculations A prefeasibility study was completed by using testwork results obtained from various composite samples of Run of Mine year end and included 60 000 metres of drilling designed to infill the previous inferred material from the different ore zones.
Average recoveries of 95%, 90% and 89% resource.
have been predicted for the oxide, transition and sulphide material respectively.
The metallurgical process plant has been designed to treat 150 000 tonnes of ore per month equating to 1.8 million tonnes of ore per annum.
It is envisaged to have individual soft rock and hard rock crushing circuits for the softer oxide and harder sulphide material respectively.
The hard rock circuit will consist of a jaw, secondary and tertiary crushers.
The milling circuit has been designed with two mills.
Initially the first mill will be installed as a scrubber mill that will later be upgraded to a ball mill when treating sulphides.
Oxides, being wet and containing clayey material, are sticky, and will bypass the secondary and tertiary crushing circuit.
The oxides and transition material will be fed to the scrubber mill with coarse mill rejects passing onto the secondary tertiary crushing section.
Sulphide ore will be treated through a primary, secondary and tertiary crushing circuit to produce a ball mill feed product.
Sulphide milling will consist of two ball mills operating in parallel as opposed to the oxide circuit with the mills operating in series.
The discharge from each mill will be pumped via a cyclone feed pump and classifier system.
A proportion of the cyclone underflow will be bled to the gravity circuit to maximise the recovery of gravity gold.
When treating sulphides the ore will in addition be subjected to a flotation recovery stage with the flotation concentrate being treated through a pressure oxidation pre-treatment stage complete with counter current decantation, neutralisation and precipitation prior to the liberated gold being leached in the leach circuit.
A thickener will be used to enhance the control of the milling and classification circuit, as well as ensuring constant feed density to the carbon-in-leach CIL circuit.
The thickener underflow will be pumped to the leach CIL circuit where gold will be dissolved and adsorbed onto activated carbon.
The resultant CIL tailings slurry will be subjected to tailings thickening to recover the maximum amount of process water containing available unused cyanide, which will reduce the amount of fresh cyanide required for leaching.
A cyanide destruction process will be included in the circuit prior to pumping process tails to the tailings storage facility.
Gold will be recovered from the gravity concentrates through a combination of intensive cyanidation and electrowinning facilities.
Loaded carbon from the CIL circuit will be acid washed prior to elution, followed by regeneration of the eluted carbon.
Gold will be deposited onto cathodes following electrowinning of the eluate.
The dried gold sludge will be smelted to produce gold dor which will be shipped to the refinery.
The preliminary tailings dam location and design have been finalised following recommendations by external consultants.
General and administration costs General and administrative costs were assumed to be US$3.85 per tonne, based on Loulo actual costs and adjusted for lower throughputs.
Capital expenditure The capital expenditure estimate for the prefeasibility model was US$237 million with replacement capital of US$18 million.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 45 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 15 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Financial model The mining and production schedule resulted in a six year mine life, producing 1.35 million ounces of gold.
The models were run at a US$800 per ounce gold price and produced an IRR of 24% with cash operating costs of US$446 per ounce for the Life of Mine.
MASSAWA: PREFEASIBILITY STUDY FINANCIAL ASSESSMENTS Pit A Pit B Cash operating costs US$446 oz US$481 oz Total cash costs US$470 oz US$505 oz IRR 24% 12% Prefeasibility model.
Low grade high tonnage model.
The fiscal parameters are based on the prevailing Senegalese 2003 Mining Code, which includes a 3% royalty.
FEASIBILITY OPTIONS As part of the prefeasibility, a second study was undertaken, reviewing a broader high tonnage, lower grade geological model.
This incorporated the low grade mineralisation surrounding the high grade shears in the Central Zone.
This model produced a mineral reserve of 20.84 million tonnes at a grade of 3.16g t for 2.12 million ounces within a US$700 per ounce designed open pit.
The mining and production schedule for this option recovered 1.9 million ounces of gold over a nine year period.
Due to the higher tonnage, processing rates were increased to 2.4 million tonnes per annum resulting in slightly lower sulphide processing and G&A costs of US$22 and US$3.50 per tonne respectively.
The capital expenditure estimate for the longer life, low grade high tonnage model increased to US$280 million followed by US$30 million for replacement capital.
The difference between this model and the feasibility model is illustrated above.
Based on the positive returns of the higher grade prefeasibility model the board has agreed to progress the project to feasibility.
In 2009, a total of 220 diamond holes for The feasibility will focus on increasing the mineral resource base.
Although the 53 820 metres and 84 RC holes for prefeasibility mineral resource model does provide a suitable return, there is potential 6 272 metres were drilled, for the present to further improve the project by including the low grade oxide material within the mineral resource model.
pit that is outside the present model.
The steep dip and thin nature of the mineralised structure translates into a higher strip ratio which limits the vertical extent to which open pit mining can provide suitable returns.
The ore morphology does, however, lend itself to vertical open stope underground mining and this concept will be tested this year beneath the known ore bodies.
Further open pit potential does exist north and south of the known mineral reserves with known gold mineralisation occurring continuously for 3.4 kilometres south of the present pits.
There are also numerous satellite opportunities in the Massawa region which have the potential to add incremental ounces and additional ore for the project.
Further metallurgical testwork is under way to optimise gravity and flotation and sulphide process route.
The prefeasibility has not identified any fatal flaws in the environmental and social aspects and a full environmental and social assessment will now be completed.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 46 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 16 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Randgold expects to be in a position by the fourth quarter of 2010 to identify the route which the project will take with regard to underground opportunities and further open pit potential which will impact the final decision on the optimal throughput for the project.
EXPLORATION At Massawa, a total strike length of 8.5 kilometres has been drilled, but only a four kilometre portion of this has been evaluated for the present mineral resource model and has been drill tested to a 50 metre by 50 metre spacing to vertical depths of 250 metres.
In 2009, a total of 220 diamond holes for 53 820 metres and 84 RC holes for 6 272 metres were drilled.
In 2010, the focus of exploration will be to test the extensions of Massawa both along strike and down dip to evaluate additional open pit ounces as well as underground opportunities.
In addition to Massawa, there are a number of targets which have had varying degrees of follow-up work completed on them, from trenching through to RAB and diamond drilling, and all highlight the possibility of finding additional ounces within a 15 kilometre radius of Massawa.
These are Bakan Corridor, Delaya, Sofia and Bambaraya.
SENEGAL EXPLORATION PERMITS Bambaraya Delya Bakan Corridor Kounemba Massawa Sofia In 2010, the focus of exploration will be to deposit test the extensions of Massawa both along strike and down dip to evaluate additional open pit ounces as well as underground opportunities.
Kanoumering Tomboronkoto 20km Gold targets RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 47 Composite
