01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 11 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K EXECUTIVES AND OFFICERS Luiz Correia General manager - Tongon Amadou Konta A metallurgist with 24 years experience in the gold mining General manager - Loulo industry, he has a BSc Eng as well as a BCom degree.
He Has a degree in civil engineering joined Randgold in 2005 and in 2006 was appointed operations as well as several management manager responsible for the mining, planning, processing, and project management maintenance and engineering functions at Loulo.
Was appointed recently appointed general manager of the Tongon mine in by BHP as mine foreman and Cte dIvoire, which is scheduled to be commissioned in the superintendent at Syama mine last quarter of 2010. and served as mining manager from 1997.
In 2001, was promoted to construction manager Tania fide Welzim for Randgold in Mali and then Group financial manager to Loulo general manager in Tania was appointed group financial manager in April 2009 2004. having served previously as group financial controller.
She is a chartered accountant with 11 years experience in finance including nine years in the mining industry.
She is responsible for the groups financial reporting as well as internal control procedures.
David Haddon General counsel and secretary Qualified as an attorney in 1984.
He has overseen the administrative obligations of Randgold since its incorporation and assumed secretarial responsibility when it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 1997.
This continued with the subsequent listing on Nasdaq and for the various corporate and related activities since then.
He is a director of Seven Bridges Trading and other group subsidiaries.
Victor Matfield Corporate finance manager A chartered accountant, he was appointed corporate finance Paul Harbidge manager in 2001.
Prior to that he Group exploration manager served as financial manager of the A geologist with over 16 years experience, mainly in West Syama mine and of the Morila Africa, having previously worked for Rio Tinto, Anglo American project.
He is a director of Seven and Ashanti, he joined Randgold in 2000.
He was appointed Bridges Trading.
Bill Houston General manager human capital and social responsibility Has a masters degree in human resources management and 30 years experience in HR and organisational development.
Joined Randgold in 1992 as group training and development manager, and headed the group human resources function from 1996.
He is a director of Morila Ltd, Somilo SA and Seven Bridges Trading and designed and implemented the human resources and social systems for Syama, Morila and Loulo.
Philip Pretorius Willem Jacobs Human resources executive General manager operations - Central and East Africa Joined Randgold in 2008, bringing With a BPL Hons and DCom he is a seasoned executive.
with him 21 years of human Having served as a director of listed and private companies resources experience of which the in the areas of mining, engineering and manufacturing in last 14 years were spent Southern, Central and Eastern Africa for the past 15 years, exclusively dealing with the West he joined the group in January 2010.
With a post-graduate diploma in management practice, he has been involved in establishing various gold mining projects in Mali.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 12 Composite 01-20 Achievements R 3 25 10 8:38 AM Page 12 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Ngolo Sanogo General manager - Mali Chris Prinsloo Has a masters degree in economics from the National General manager commercial School of Administration of Bamako as well as several and operations finance management, accounting and financial qualifications.
Qualified as a chartered secretary Qualified as an auditor in 1992 before joining BHP Mali in and has 36 years experience 1995.
Appointed material manager in 1998 and in the mining industry including management accountant in 2001 at the Syama mine.
finance, capital projects, Following the sale of Somisy SA in 2004, joined Randgold administration and supply chain as Mali financial controller.
He was appointed Mali general management.
Appointed as manager in March 2009. commercial manager in 2002, responsible for group accounting, John Steele supply chain management plus Technical and capital projects executive the risk management and Responsible for the successful construction and insurance portfolio.
Currently commissioning of Randgolds Morila and Loulo mines and serves on the boards of Morila SA, currently leads the team developing the new Tongon mine Somilo SA, Tongon SA and in Cte dIvoire.
As well as heading the capital projects Kankou Moussa SARL.
function within Randgold, he continues to provide operational oversight at Morila and Loulo as well as supplying engineering due diligence expertise to the group.
John is a director of Morila Limited, Somilo SA and Kibali Goldmines SPRL.
Samba Tour General manager operations - West Africa Joined Morila gold mine in 2000 and held various responsibilities, culminating in the appointment in 2007 as the mine chief executive.
Under his leadership, the mine was run successfully, delivering on its promises.
In 2010, promoted to group operations GM for West Africa.
With the experience gained in mining during the last 10 years, he is destined to continue adding value to the companys Rod Quick increasing operations portfolio in West Africa.
General manager evaluation and environment A geologist with 15 years Lois Wark experience in the gold mining Group corporate communications manager industry, he joined Randgold in A member of the Randgold team since its inception who 1996.
He has been involved in assumed management of the cartography department in the exploration, evaluation and 1995, she is responsible for the coordination of the groups production phases of the Morila, Loulo and Tongon projects.
communication and investor relations programmes as well Having served as the Somilo as for the management of its South African subsidiary, resource manager since 2006, he Seven Bridges.
She holds a diploma in land surveying: was given his new responsibilities Cadastral and topographical.
for all project development and evaluation in 2009.
Louis Watum General manager - Kibali gold project: Country manager - DRC A metallurgist with 20 years experience in base metals, coal and gold processing, he has an MSc in Chemical Engineering.
He joined Randgold Resources in 2009 and was appointed general manager and country manager responsible for: Building and leading the Kibali team: communicating with the DRC government and local authorities: directing and managing Kibali business: and, delivering on strategies, objectives and the Kibali business plan.
Mahamadou Samak General manager - West Africa A professor of company law at the University of Mali, Mahamadou was instrumental in writing the Malian labour legislation.
He is the resident executive manager in Mali and is responsible for government liaison and legal counsel for the Francophone region.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 13 Composite
