54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 18 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K porphyritic andesite and mafic agglomerate.
Weakly deformed felsic-intermediate and mafic intrusives including syn-tectonic granodiorite, late syn-tectonic porphyritic At Nielle, following the completion of the diorite, and gabbro also occur, and commonly intrude between competency geological interpretation, a prospectivity contrasting lithologies that appear to be structurally juxtaposed against one another.
analysis was completed to prioritise targets Shearing and thrusting is present on both a regional and local scale and is for follow-up work programmes.
accompanied by abundant silicification, quartz veining, and felsic intrusive activity.
In most instances these structures are either bedding parallel or locate along the contact between volcano-sedimentary units and intrusive felsic bodies.
Widespread ductile and brittle mineralisation is frequently associated with this shearing as seen with the Tongon orebodies.
Following the completion of the geological interpretation, a prospectivity analysis was completed to prioritise targets for follow-up work programmes.
Tongon West Mineralised structures from the Southern Zone appear to have been offset by a late regional scale north-northwest trending dextral fault.
Mineralisation exists in two zones.
These two zones returned in a river diversion trench: 28 metres at 1.50g t including 18 metres at 2.02g t and 38 metres at 1.16g t. The main zone of Tongon West extends over 600 metres of strike length trending northeast, with an average width of 25 metres.
The mineralisation is hosted in a volcaniclastic unit associated with shearing 230 dipping variably between 30 and 79 to the northwest.
Along strike to the northeast the discreet mineralisation terminates abruptly close to the granodiorite contact.
Diffuse anomalism occurs in the granodiorite as a result of brittle fracturing.
The mineralisation is open to the southwest, albeit weak.
The footwall is marked by a unit of carbonaceous shale trending 230 dipping steeply to the northwest and intruded by several porphyritic dykes.
Two new trenches placed either side of the diversion trench to test the current geological model were completed in Q4-09.
TNT091 collared above mineralised RAB holes and 100 metres southwest of the mineralisation intersected in the diversion trench confirmed the geological model, with a tuff-volcaniclastic hangingwall, volcaniclastic mineralised zone and carbonaceous shale footwall.
CTE DIVOIRE EXPLORATION MALI Dakar SENEGAL BURKINA Bamako FASO Ouagadougou GUINEA SIERRA LEONE CTE DIVOIRE GHANA LIBERIA Birimian Belt Accra Proterozoic Plutonic rocks Abidjan Randgold permits 600km Capital city RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 71 Composite
