54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 1 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K EXPLORATION REVIEW The company has a portfolio of projects within some of the most prospective gold belts of both West and Central Africa.
It has exploration projects in five African countries hosting 250 targets on 13 624 square kilometres of groundholding.
It has a team of more than 50 geologists.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES EXPLORATION PERMITS: AFRICA MALI SENEGAL BURKINA FASO CTE DIVOIRE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Proterozoic Archean Randgold permits RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 54 Composite 54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 2 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Strategic focus on organic growth through exploration success Value created by discovering and developing profitable gold projects 250 targets in five countries being progressed In 2009, exploration programmes concentrated on the continued evaluation of the Massawa deposit in Senegal, the discovery of the new multi-million ounce high grade gold deposit at Gounkoto in Mali, the definition of satellite deposits at Loulo, and geological modelling and resource conversion at the Kibali gold deposit in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
At Gounkoto, Randgold announced a new, high grade multi-million ounce gold discovery during the year and progressed the project to a positive scoping study.
By year end, the prefeasibility drilling had been completed.
1.96 million ounces at 7.28g t of indicated mineral resources plus 0.92 million ounces of inferred mineral resources at 6.0g t have been estimated.
Mineralisation is open in all directions.
To the north, the last drill hole GKDH145 returned 4.55 metres at 7.48g t, to the south GKDH018 returned 18.7 metres at 9.12g t, while at depth GKDH029 returned 49.6 metres at 13.73g t and GKDH105 returned 67.4 metres at 5.76g t. At Loulo, drilling at the Loulo 3 target joined three small deposits Southwest, Centre and North into one larger deposit and a 1.1 kilometre single open pit containing reserves of 1.00 million tonnes at 2.94g t for 94 605 ounces following mining depletion in 2009.
Drilling has intersected mineralisation a further 650 metres to the north and this is currently the focus of evaluation drilling.
Mineralisation is also open at depth.
The company progressed the Massawa project from a positive scoping study to a positive prefeasibility study by year end, following the completion of 60 000 metres of drilling along a four kilometre strike of an eight kilometre mineralised system.
Along the Massawa system, a high grade south plunging shoot has been identified in North 2 with an average grade of plus 7g t and in the Central Zone, narrow silicified structures within a broader low grade envelope contain bonanza style grades with coarse visible gold.
Following the successful conversion of resources to reserves at Tongon the exploration emphasis has shifted to the discovery of new ounces close to the existing ore bodies, as well as the development of targets further afield.
In Burkina Faso, the sale of Kiaka to Volta Resources Inc was completed and the team is now working on the identification of new opportunities.
A first pass review has been completed over the southwest corner of the country and includes the greenstone belts of Loumana, Banfora, Hounde and Boromo.
Following the acquisition of Moto Goldmines, Randgold quickly established a geological team on site at Kibali.
The primary objective was to complete a detailed geological analysis of the  KCD deposit, to ultimately understand the geology, structure, alteration and mineralisation and to construct a geological model to support the resource conversion work, as well as to look at the possibility of a lateral link, between the KCD and Gorumbwa deposits.
Randgold made a strategic decision to stop exploration activities at Morila and in the countries of Ghana and Tanzania.
During 2010 exploration will concentrate on five strategic areas: Delivering the final feasibility study on Massawa.
Delivering the final feasibility study on Gounkoto.
Maintaining open pit mining flexibility at Loulo through the definition of additional ounces from satellite deposits.
Adding to the resource base at Tongon through the evaluation of satellite targets in the Nielle permit.
Resource conversion work at Kibali and generative studies within the greater lease area.
While the acquisition of Moto Goldmines was an opportunity to acquire one of the worlds largest undeveloped gold resources at good value, it does not diminish the companys strategic focus on organic growth through exploration success and its primary objective remains the creation of value through the discovery and development of profitable mining projects.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 55 Composite
