54-79 Exploration R 3 25 10 8:40 AM Page 21 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K MALI Dakar SENEGAL BURKINA Bamako FASO Ouagadougou GUINEA SIERRA LEONE CTE DIVOIRE GHANA LIBERIA Birimian Belt Accra Proterozoic Plutonic rocks Abidjan Randgold permits 600km Capital city BURKINA FASO EXPLORATION BURKINA FASO Randgold made a strategic decision to sell the Kiaka project in the southeast of the country to Volta Resources Inc in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Exploration is now focused on the identification of new opportunities.
A first pass review has been completed over the southwest corner of the country and includes the Greenstone Belts of Loumana, Banfora, Hounde and Boromo.
A more detailed generative study is being applied, with the integration of our West African models to the geology, to identify areas of interest, in order to highlight permit applications and or joint venture opportunities.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Kibali In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, following the acquisition of Moto Goldmines at the beginning of the fourth quarter, Randgold established a geological team on site at Kibali.
The primary objective was to complete a detailed geological analysis of the KCD deposit, to understand the geology, structure, alteration and mineralisation and to construct a geological model to support the resource conversion work, as well as to look at the possibility of a lateral link between the KCD and Gorumbwa deposits.
Deposit geology A geological analysis was completed to review the structural and lithological controls of the KCD deposit as well as to look at the possibility of a lateral link between the KCD and Gorumbwa deposits.
Sixty core holes were validated and a geological map was produced.
A geological aeromagnetic interpretation was also completed.
Mineralisation is controlled by zones of texturally destructive  alteration syn D1 along faults with a similar orientation as S1.
S1 is a regional shear fabric and in general strikes northwest with a low dip to the northeast, hosted within a package of banded iron formation BIF, volcaniclastics and sediments.
D1 is interpreted to be the results of shortening from the northeast with the West Nile block thrust over the  sequences, causing southwest verging folds and thrusts.
Gold mineralisation was introduced during late D1 to D2 due to preferential fracturing of the  alteration zones.
S2 is an axial plane cleavage and in general strikes northeast with a moderate to steep dip northwest, explaining the northeast trending mineralised corridors.
D2 also causes the folding of S1, creating double plunging folds, as observed in the KCD mineralised zones.
A prominent stretching lineation, L1, was also observed.
It has, in general, a shallow plunge towards the northeast and appears to control high grade mineralisation.
Post-mineralisation D3 which produced a pervasive crenulation cleavage that in general strikes southeast with a low dip to the southwest.
Airborne geophysics Aeromagnetic and radiometric data over the Moto area, acquired during the AngloGold Ashanti AngloGoldBarrick joint venture in the late 1990s, was received from AngloGold.
A preliminary interpretation of the aeromagnetic data revealed strongly magnetic units, which correspond to banded iron formations BIF trending westnorthwest.
However, in the immediate vicinity of the KCD area the strata change RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 74 Composite
