32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 17 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K KIBALI PRO ECT The Kibali project is controlled by a 50:50 joint venture, between Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti Limited, which holds an effective 90% interest in Kibali Goldmines SPRL.
The remaining 10% of the shares are held by Okimo, the parastatal mining company of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Randgolds interest in this project was acquired following the acquisition of Moto Goldmines Limited, in conjunction with AngloGold Ashanti, and the further acquisition of a 20% interest from Okimo on behalf of the joint venture.
The Kibali project is located some 560 kilometres northeast of the city of Kisangani and 150 kilometres west of the Ugandan border town of Arua in the northeast of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
More details of the acquisition consideration are contained in the financial statements on page 150 of this report.
GEOLOGY AND MINERALISATION The goldfields at the Kibali gold project are located within the Moto greenstone belt, which is comprised of the Archean Kibalian Upper and Lower volcanosedimentary rocks and ironstone-chert horizons that have been metamorphosed to greenschist facies.
The goldfields at Kibali are transgressed by regional-scale north, east, northeast and northwest trending faults and are bounded to the north by the Middle Archaean West Nile granite-gneiss complex and cut to the south by DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO: KIBALI PROJECT CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC CAMEROON KIBALI KENYA CONGO GABON DEMOCRATIC RWANDA REPUBLIC OF CONGO BURUNDI Kinshasa TANZANIA ANGOLA ZAMBIA Archean Mesoproterozoic Randgold permits 600km Capital city RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 48 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 18 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K 45% interest acquired through Moto acquisition and additional Okimo purchase Mineral reserves increased by 67% to 9.2Moz since acquisition Development roadmap targets first production in 2014 the Upper Zaire granitic complex.
The stratigraphy consists of a volcani-sedimentary sequence comprising fine-grained sedimentary rocks, several varieties of pyroclastic rocks, basaltic flow rocks, mafic-intermediate intrusions dykes and sills and intermediate-felsic intrusive rocks stocks, dykes and sills.
The sequence is variably altered from slight texture benign to intense texture destructive such that in some cases the protolith rock is unrecognisable.
In the Kibali district the majority of gold mineralisation identified to date is disseminated style, hosted within a sequence of volcaniclastics, coarse volcaniclastics, sedimentary rocks and banded ferruginous cherts.
The mineralisation is generally structurally controlled and associated with quartz-carbonate alteration and pyrite.
The majority of mineralisation currently being delineated occurs within two broad mineralised trends.
The first group lies within a northeast trending structuralalteration corridor: from the Kibali prospect in the southwest to the Ndala prospect in the northeast, called the Kibali-Durba-Karagba Trend.
The second group lies within a northwest trending zone that stretches from the Pakaka prospect in the southeast to the Mengu Hill prospect in the northwest and is called the PakakaMengu Trend.
KIBALI: OREBODY MODEL Northeast Southwest Open pit KCD deposit RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 49 Composite 500m 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 19 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K MINERAL RESOURCES AND RESERVE UPDATE Following the completion of the Moto acquisition, Randgold has moved swiftly to update the mineral resources and reserves, retaining the services of Cube Consulting and SRK Consulting in Perth, supported by in-house skills from both Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti, to ensure continuity with regards to the updates.
Following incorporation of all drilling completed between April and August 2009, new resources were reported in the fourth quarter as highlighted below: KIBALI: TOTAL RESERVES AND RESOURCES KIBALI: MINERAL RESOURCES Reserves AttribuResources table Moz gold Tonnes Grade Gold Moz 20 at 30 November 2009 Category Mt g t Moz 45% 15 Open pit Indicated 92.23 2.10 6.25 2.81 Inferred 32.82 3.10 3.26 1.47 10 KCD underground Indicated 39.26 6.08 7.67 3.45 5 Inferred 18.24 4.38 2.57 1.16 TOTAL OPEN PIT AND KCD UNDERGROUND 0 Indicated 131.49 3.29 13.93 6.27 09 Inferred 51.06 3.55 5.83 2.62 Open pit recoverable mineral resources are reported at 0.5g t gold cut-off inside the US$1 000 oz pit shell and above the 5 685mRL for the KCD deposit.
Underground mineral resources are those mineral resources 2.0g t gold cut-off below the 5 685mRL for the KCD deposit.
Attributable gold Moz refers to the quantity attributable to Randgold based on its 45% interest in the Kibali gold project.
The 5 685mRL refers to the optimised open pit to underground interface for the KCD deposit.
Mineral resources were calculated by Mr Rick Adams, a director of Cube Consulting and an independent Qualified Person.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 81.
The main changes in mineral resources from previous declarations made by Moto Goldmines include: Open pit resources have been classified as the insitu resources falling within the US$1 000 per ounce whittle pit shell at a 0.5g t gold cut-off to conform with JORC requirements: and In the case of the KCD deposit the underground resources are reported as those insitu resources below the pit to underground interface 5 685mRL, reported at a 2g t gold cut-off.
To ensure mineral resources comply with the criteria laid out by the JORC Code, only those mineral resources for which there is a reasonable prospect of eventual economic extraction have been included in the declaration above.
The net result is slightly lower total resources than previously reported by Moto, but a significant increase in indicated resources, with 70% of total resources now being classified as indicated.
The indicated mineral resource is now 13.93 million ounces, which represents an increase of 23% over the previous indicated mineral resource.
7.67 million ounces at a grade of 6.08g t from the  KCD deposit is now classified as an underground indicated mineral resource and represents an increase of 118% over the previous declared underground indicated mineral resource.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 50 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 20 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Cube Consulting reviewed open pit reserves from the updated resource numbers, while SRK Consulting completed an update of the underground reserves based on The Kibali River is earmarked to provide the a US$700 gold price.
New reserve numbers are presented below and reflect a future hydro-electric power required by the significant increase in underground reserves to almost 6 million ounces, bringing Kibali mine as well as meeting the needs of the total reserve number to 9.2 million ounces, a 67% increase from the previous the surrounding communities.
The main changes to the reserve include the conversion of indicated mineral resources beneath the KCD pit into the underground reserve.
KIBALI: MINERAL RESERVES Attributable gold Tonnes Grade Gold Moz at 31 December 2009 Category Mt g t Moz 45% Open pit total Probable 33.55 3.02 3.26 1.47 Underground total Probable 30.25 6.10 5.93 2.67 TOTAL RESERVES Probable 63.80 4.48 9.19 4.14 Open pit and underground reserves are carried out at a gold price of US$700 oz.
Mineral reserves include dilution and ore loss factors.
Open pit mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Quinton fide Klerk, a director of Cube Consulting and an independent Qualified Person.
Underground mineral reserves were calculated by Mr Paul Kerr, an officer of SRK Consulting Perth and an independent Qualified Person.
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT The overall programme to complete the initial investment phase to establish gold production at Kibali is estimated to take approximately four years, with first gold expected early in 2014.
Orientation The development of the project is based on four key building blocks: Infrastructure: The road between Arua and the site Doko needs to be upgraded to a standard where trucks with the loads needed to build and operate the mine can pass consistently.
Security: The previous instability in the northeast corner of the DRC needs to be suitably addressed, and stabilised, to allow the uninterrupted building and operation of a mine.
Power: The generation of power through the optimisation of the available hydro-electric facilities needs to be resolved in engineering and commercial terms.
Relocation of people: The communities on and directly around the project site need to be resettled in a peaceful and orderly manner to allow the development and operation of a large scale gold mine.
The roadmap that has been developed has been designed to address each of these four key aspects of the project.
Management is now actively engaged in the detailed steps required to take the project forward, including: The road: A contractor has been appointed to upgrade the road in phases over a three year period.
The final outcome will represent a road at an engineered standard where loads needed for construction and operation of the mine can be consistently accommodated.
Security: The government of the DRC has made suitable and sustainable arrangements with Uganda as well as Rwanda as to the combating of guerrilla forces operating between the three countries.
The governments concerned RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 51 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 21 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K In the fourth quarter of 2009 Randgold updated the mineral resources and reserves for the Kibali project and reported a revised indicated resource of 13.93 million ounces, representing an increase of 23% over the previous amount reported.
have deployed enough troops and police to control the area.
Randgold has worked closely with the authorities to maintain the current peaceful situation.
Power: Kibali is already in possession of the Nzoro hydro power station licence.
It is in the process of applying for additional licences for hydro power stations in the area.
These licences will inter alia involve reconfiguration, refurbishment and maintenance of the power stations in question.
Should that be successful, Randgold can produce enough power through hydro activity to sustain more than the planned size of mine, inclusive of the provision of substantial power to local communities.
Resettlement Action Plan RAP : The Randgold policy is to adhere fully to local regulations and international standards, such as the Equator Principles and the World Bank guidelines.
Kibali has started with this process, including consultation and base line studies.
It is expected to take some two years to complete the initial resettlement plans of the communities.
The total number of people to be resettled in phases is approximately 15 000.
2010 focus In 2010, work will focus on: Completing the environmental baseline studies and updating the social and environmental action plans prior to the start of pre-construction activities.
Pre-construction activities, including the establishment of the construction camp, construction of aggregate and sand production plants as well as a brick making facilities.
Improving access to the site through the upgrading of the existing road from the mine to the Ugandan border 160 kilometres.
Integration of construction activities within the RAP in order to provide employment to the people who will be displaced by the future mining activities in order to mitigate the impact of the resettlement process.
These initiatives and our commitment to assist their relocation to a suitable area, along with our programme to decommission the old Durba mill, will assist in maintaining employment of local people and improve the environment while we develop alternative opportunities through the construction of the mine.
KIBALI MINE: PROJECT SCHEDULE Project phase 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Project development and planning Resettlement and site clearing Pre-construction Main site construction Plant and infrastructure construction Start-up RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 52 Composite 32-53 Projects R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 22 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Establishment of hydropower infrastructure.
Our development plan calls for the integration of the power supply from existing hydro stations which require re-investment to restore the stations production capabilities into our new infrastructure.
This strategy facilitates supply from different catchments in the region and reduces the supply risk.
Maximising the use of softer oxide material in the initial phase will allow us to defer expenditure on hard rock crushing and additional milling installation and reduce the need for additional power at the outset.
This also gives us time to establish the underground section at KCD so that we can feed higher grade underground ore at the start up of the hard rock processing phase.
The programme is focused on the KCD deposit where the bulk of the Kibali reserves are hosted, but exploration initiatives are in place to boost the supply of near plant soft oxide ore, which will allow higher mill throughputs initially and deliver the necessary critical mass of gold production for development of projects in remote areas.
EXPLORATION Following the acquisition of Moto Goldmines at the beginning of the fourth quarter, Randgold established a geological team on site at Kibali.
The primary objective was to complete a detailed geological analysis of the KCD deposit, to understand the geology, structure, alteration and mineralisation, and to construct a geological model, as well as to look at the possibility of a lateral link between the KCD and Gorumbwa deposits.
Work undertaken included: Resource drilling 44 holes completed, 8 484 metres.
Core review of selective KCD holes 60 holes and geological modelling.
Surface mapping of the KCD - Gorumbwa area.
The completion of two strategic holes 1 557 metres in the KCD - Gorumbwa gap.
Ongoing soil geochemistry over block 1 west of KCD, where four new gold anomalies were identied: sampling of the old Durba mill 251 samples.
First pass interpretation of the airborne magnetic data: and reconnaissance pitting 10 pits on the ATF concession.
Objectives in 2010 at Kibali will include: Continued resource conversion work, not only on the KCD deposit but also the satellite deposits.
Visiting investment analysts and fund The identication of new near mine resources.
managers next to the telecommunications Generative work on the wider lease area through the completion of soil tower on Mount Joseph overlooking the sampling and an airborne electro-magnetic survey.
RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 53 Composite
