22-30 Operations R 3 25 10 8:39 AM Page 6 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K LOULO: YALEA UNDERGROUND DEVELOPMENT The completion of the ventilation loop and Developthe installation of the new main fan unit, ment Ore Grade Mined Total have resulted in a significant improvement at 31 December metres tonnes g t oz tonnes in the underground operating conditions at the Yalea underground mine.
A number of significant milestones were achieved during the year, including the commissioning of the four kilometre overland conveyor belt linking the Yalea underground with the plant, the commissioning of the main dam on 038 Level, which now pumps directly to surface, the completion of the ventilation loop and the installation of the new main fan unit, which have resulted in a significant improvement in the underground operating conditions.
Following the setbacks experienced during the year, including the slower build up of tonnes, management terminated the underground mining contract with the previous contractor in December and has assumed this responsibility within the company.
This change has delivered immediate improvements as evidenced by the record tonnes in December.
The mine is still on the critical path and continues to receive additional management attention.
The Gara underground mine budget and planning for 2010 have been completed and the development contractor has been appointed.
The Gara mine will be accessed via a twin decline system situated inside the southern part of the current open pit.
Access will be provided via a boxcut, into the pit, which will later be filled in after concrete tunnels have been constructed.
Gara ore is scheduled to be accessed at the end of 2010, ramping up to full production by the end of 2011.
Work on the boxcut is moving ahead steadily and will be completed in the first quarter of 2010.
LOULO: GARA UNDERGROUND DEVELOPMENT PLAN Gara underground portal Current Gara open pit Planned underground stoping Planned underground development 500m RANDGOLD RESOURCES | ANNUAL REPORT 2009 27 Composite
