now developed two additional sites under problem gambling.
For example, in result of this review, Rank intends to the format.
2008 9, of the 22,691 incidences of adjust its capital structure to target a level At the same time, the Group achieved underage gambling in Britain reported by of around 2.5 times net debt to EBITDA much closer integration between its the Gambling Commission, only seven over the medium term.
online and land-based gaming brands, or 0.03% took place in our premises.
In addition, the board has determined exploiting opportunities for revenue and We recognise too that we have a to recommend a resumption of dividend cost synergies.
payments, beginning with a 1.35p per responsibility to our shareholders, to our employees and to our customers to share final dividend for 2009.
The dividend Operating responsibly will be paid on 5 May 2010 to shareholders engage fully with regulators and The benefits of the Groups actions are governments to help shape a supportive on the register at 6 April 2010. reflected not simply in its financial We plan to adopt a progressive and responsible operating environment performance but also in forward-looking dividend policy, taking into for our businesses.
measures which indicate the success consideration the Groups capital We have recently set out a of our businesses in engaging investment requirements and the stability new vision for the British with both customers and of the wider operating and economic gaming industry, based employees.
Within this context, the around the principles of year, the Group The ability of board intends to set dividends such that fairness, responsibility achieved increases in Rank achieves a dividend cover of around and sustainability.
This our businesses to satisfaction and 3.0 times over the medium term.
forms the basis for the engagement scores delight and entertain Groups future Outlook from both customers engagement with the While the board is pleased with and employees.
customers in a safe and Gambling the progress achieved during 2009, The ability of our social environment Commission, the opportunities and challenges lie ahead.
businesses to delight Government and the The current year is forecast to be a period and entertain their is fundamental to wider political of gradual, if fragile, economic recovery customers in a safe and establishment, our peer our strategy in the UK, Ranks key market see market social environment is companies and other review, page 7, whilst the outcome of the fundamental to our strategy.
forthcoming general election is likely to Within this framework, the influence the regulatory and tax landscape Group recognises its responsibility Capital structure and for gaming and betting in Britain.
to minimise the incidence of any dividend policy Ranks primary focus remains on negative issues, particularly around During 2009, the Group carried out delivering service excellence to our problem gambling.
a review of its capital structure and customers as a means of generating value Whilst we are continually seeking dividend policy, against a background for our shareholders.
The board believes improvement, we are nevertheless proud of operational improvements, significant that the quality of Ranks customer of our record with regard to growth in earnings per share and a propositions, its standards of service and understanding, managing and mitigating sustained reduction in net debt.
As a insight and the in-depth strength of its management team give the Group a platform for sustainable growth.
Total shareholder return overview Between 2007 and 2009, Ranks TSR Total Shareholder Return TSR measures under-performed the FTSE 350 index the combined benefit to shareholders of shares.
This was due in large part to from any equity investment based upon a perfect storm of negative changes to share price appreciation and distributions, the legislation, regulation and taxation such as dividends.
of Britains land-based gaming sector.
Peter Johnson For Rank, it is an important measure During 2009, shares in Rank Chairman of shareholder value, benchmarking delivered a much improved TSR as a 24February2010 investor return from Rank shares with the result of management actions and as yield available from other investments.
the UK equities market strengthened.
For our strategic For more information update see: on governance see: p. 8-9 p. 42 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 5 DIRECTORS REPORT: CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A A resilient performance Despite the growth in revenue, operating Year in review profit of 32.3m from Mecca Bingo was 14.8% lower than in 2008, largely as a result of increased taxation.
We have progressed by taking Top Rank Espaa grew revenue by a single-minded approach 1.1%, benefiting from the strength of the euro against Sterling.
In euros, revenue to improving the customer declined by 8.9%, with customer visits experience in each and spend per visit both down as Spains severe economic conditions continued to of our businesses.
Operating profit declined by 18.8% to 5.6m.
Revenue from Rank Interactive declined by 3.4% to 50.8m with continued growth from meccabingo.
com outweighed by lower revenue from sports Ian Burke betting, casino and poker.
Operating Chiefexecutive profit of 7.5m was in line with 2008, principally as a result of reduced marketing expenditure.
Excluding the effects of tax changes, Central costs of 18.3m were slightly Summary of results higher than in 2008 due to an increase in foreign exchange movements and uring 2009, the Group share-based payments.
changes to our estate of bingo clubs and achieved 21.9% growth in casinos, the Group maintained operating Current trading adjusted earnings per share, costs in line with 2008 levels.
During the eight weeks to 21 February despite the effects of the Across the Group, our businesses 2010, the Group grew revenue by 11% Dglobal economic recession.
served a total number of 2.4 million and like-for-like revenue by 5%.
This resulted largely from an improved customers, representing a 4.4% increase operational performance and lower over the prior year.
Customer visits Like-for-like Total nancing costs which offset higher land-based only of 22.1 million were revenue revenue UK gaming taxes.
Mecca Bingo 3 % 6% Group revenue grew by 3.4% to Our two largest businesses, Grosvenor Top Rank Espaa 1% 1% 540.0m, reecting the contribution Casinos and Mecca Bingo, each delivered Grosvenor Casinos 14% 20% from new casinos and bingo clubs and revenue growth.
In Grosvenor Casinos, a 0.8% like-for-like increase.
Operating this performance was driven by a Rank Interactive 9% 9% profit of 58.0m was 3.8% lower than significant increase in both active Group 5% 11% in 2008 as increases in UK gaming customers and customer visits: in Mecca Excludes club openings, closures and relocations: taxation introduced in HM Governments Bingo, growth in average spend per visit and changes to gaming taxation.
2009 Budget outweighed the benefit offset a modest decline in customer visits.
Top Rank Espaa performance not adjusted for currency movement.
In euros, revenue increased of a temporary reduction in the standard Grosvenor Casinos grew operating by 3% compared with the first eight weeks in 2009. rate of VAT.
profit by 19.3% to 30.9m, even after Taxation accounted for more than incurring 1.3m in additional taxation Grosvenor Casinos continued to be the on player-to-player card room games.
50% of operating cost increases in the main driver of growth with like-for-like revenue up 14% on increased customer visits and an above-average win margin Revenue and operating profit in our London casinos.
Like-for-like revenue from Mecca Revenue m Operating profit m Bingo declined by 3% as a result of lower 2009 2008 2009 2008 customer visits.
This performance was Mecca Bingo 233.0 227.6 32.3 37.9 adversely affected by the unusually cold weather at the start of January.
Top Rank Espaa 36.2 35.8 5.6 6.9 Top Rank Espaa generated 1% Grosvenor Casinos 220.0 206.2 30.9 25.9 growth in revenue from an increase Rank Interactive 50.8 52.6 7.5 7.6 in customer visits.
Central costs 18.3 18.0 Rank Interactive achieved a 9% revenue increase as a result of continued Group 540.0 522.2 58.0 60.3 improvements from its bingo and All references to revenue in this section are before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses.
