DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGY CONTINUED A Deepen our understanding of customer preferences 1 we introduced waiter table service.
In these Priorities During 2010, we will Customer insight clubs we have seen improvements in introduce Play Points to a further It is our success in understanding and average spend per visit on food and drink.
ten casinos at a combined cost of anticipating what our customers want approximately 2.0m.
We are continuing Priorities We will continue to invest in from their leisure experiences that will to assess opportunities to extend this the quality of the dining and drinking give our businesses a competitive approach to player rewards across the experience in our bingo clubs and advantage in the markets where Groups businesses.
In particular, we will extend they operate.
cook-to-order and table service to at least As a result of our investment in Key performance indicators another 30 Mecca clubs.
enhanced management information Ultimately, we believe that the success of systems and the creation of insight Entertainment our insight-led approach to business will teams, we have gained a deeper Progress We have introduced a number be reected in growth in customers and understanding of consumer motivation.
of industry-leading innovations to make customer visits, which will in turn give Everything that we do from the our customer experiences more rise to enhanced earnings per share.
development of concepts like G Casino and entertaining.
In Mecca Full House clubs During 2009, total Group customer visits Mecca Full House to everyday operational we fused music with gaming to create of 22.1 million was slightly ahead of 2008, After Dark Binglo and Rock and Roll Bingo improvements is built around qualitative following a number of years of decline.
and quantitative research into customer both of which have been instrumental As a forward-looking indicator, we in helping these clubs to reach out to a preferences and behaviours.
use the net promoter score system to broader range of customers and extend assess our effectiveness in meeting and Product and service operational hours.
Net improvements Priorities During 2010, we will expand promoter score tracks the net propensity Meccas After Dark suite of branded late Electronic gaming of our customers to recommend or night games, adding poker, quizzes and Progress Across the Group we have made otherwise our businesses to their friends.
improvements to the quality of both the It is based upon quarterly feedback from product and the service levels applied to more than 12,000 customers and the Accessibility electronic gaming.
In 2009, we introduced Progress We have continued to seek results form a key component of how amusements service teams into Mecca our management teams are rewarded.
ways to make the customer experience Bingo, increased the number of Category more exible and to generate more value KPI B3 jackpot machines deployed across the from our venues.
During the year, we Net promoter score Group from 727 to 991 and continued to offered 24-hour opening in 17 of our 2008 2009 2010 target invest in server-based gaming technology.
British casinos and we gained licensing Mecca Bingo 30.1% 38.6% 45.0% approval to do likewise in the remainder Priorities During 2010, we will continue Grosvenor Casinos 37.3% 45.0% of the estate.
The move has proved to invest in the quality of our electronic popular with customers and has been a Rank Interactive 32.8% 45.0% gaming product, with particular focus on driver of incremental revenue and profit.
Top Rank Espaa 40.0% upgrading gaming machines and electronic Priorities During 2010, we will extend Group 36.9% 45.0% roulette in our British casinos and 24-hour opening to a number of additional introducing enhanced electronic bingo Net promoter score for Top Rank Espaa was not casinos and seek to gain extended opening measured in 2009: it will be measured from 2010 and video bingo terminals in Mecca Bingo.
The lower target for 2010 reects hours for our bingo clubs in tandem with Food and drink this circumstance.
the roll-out of our After Dark brand and Progress We have made substantial our enhanced amusement machines offer.
Note: net promoter scores are derived by subtracting improvements to both the quality of negative detractor customer feedback scores from positive promoter scores.
our food and drink and the manner of Customer rewards its delivery.
In 16 Mecca Bingo clubs we Progress During 2009, we extended our replaced servery-style catering with cookPlay Points customer rewards programme to-order meals: and in six of these clubs to a total of eight of our Grosvenor Casinos and G Casinos, following tests in 2008.
Customers and customer visits At 31 December 2009, more than 75,000 KPI 2008 2009 millions customers were members of Play Points, and in excess of 0.4m worth of rewards had been redeemed via the programme.
Play Points provides us with extensive empirical data regarding spending and behavioural patterns, enables us to target our marketing expenditure more efficiently and has proved popular with customers.
In the clubs where Play Points has been introduced we have experienced enhanced levels of operating performance and higher net promoter scores.
08 09 08 09 Visit Mecca Full House Customer visits Customers p. 16-17 Customer visits land based only 10 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 21.6 22.1 2.3 2.4
