  notonly provides our customers with increased gamingchoicebut The Mecca Management Academy alsodelivers apositive  The Academy was established in June .
Newgames canbe 2009 to provide a first-class development  withoutthe programme customised to our business need , which and of practical value to Mecca trainee has  general managers.
programme is tailored specifically to the requirements of the management role with a strong focus on leadership, and is designed to support the delivery of Meccas strategy.
On successful completion of the training, candidates acquire a recognised qualification the Institute of Leadership and Management ILM Certificate in Management.
benchmarked against the competition Group.
We have also invested in the internationally recognised as one of the and wider leisure industry, focus groups Mecca Management Academy which most comprehensive independent audit and other regular surveys: and demonstrates the importance we place measurement systems verifying best practice in health and safety.
Our rating we introduced brand standards covering on developing future leaders.
Through enables us to apply for the British Safety everything from food preparation to the human resources team the Group Council Sword of Honour for 2010. uniforms, which are regularly monitored delivers extensive face-to-face training through management visits.
for team members at all levels.
We In dialogue with our employees pay particular attention to customer We consult with our employees, listen to Our people initiatives, technical training and their views and respond to any concerns.
Our people are core to delivering our Our employees have access to feedback vision to put customers at the centre of channels including face-to-face, online Promoting a diverse workforce our operations.
We are committed to and printed communications, employee Diversity is another priority for us and in looking after our employees and enabling councils and consultative committees.
2009 we established the diversity steering them to fulfil their potential.
We aim to  group, comprising representatives from provide a fair, equal, respectful and safe across the Group, to oversee our work  workplace, rewarding and recognising a in this area with a particular focus on survey.
We strive to be an employer  gender and ethnicity.
Diversity brings of choice where our people feel proud great benefits to the Company and also  to work.
helps us understand the needs of a broad employeeopinion, regularlyachieving base of customers.
Wescore Through the economic recession, the Maintaining health and safety  Group has largely been able to preserve The health and safety of our employees  i. e. the is very important to us.
The number of employment and avoid short time  accidents required to be reported to the working, .
This  Health and Safety Executive under year we created 350 new jobs in the UK Company.
Ahighproportionofall The Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and through new acquisitions and openings.
 Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 Employee turnover has decreased year  decreased from 23 in 2008 to 21 in 2009. on year since 2006.
Retaining skilled  Any workplace accidents are reviewed employees not only avoids unnecessary intheirdailywork.
and corrective action and or training is attrition costs but also ensures that the Rank compares its employee implemented to reduce the risk of further Group is well positioned to take advantage engagement results against external occurrences.
Please see page 56 statutory of improvements in the economic climate.
benchmarks, so it knows that its information for Ranks approach to Developing talent employees rate it significantly better health and safety management including Developing and attracting management than similar organisations in terms of fair compliance with statutory requirements.
talent to deliver our strategy and help and respectful treatment of the workforce We were proud that our headquarters take the company forward is a priority by managers.
Rank also scores highly in Maidenhead and the Grosvenor for us.
Our talent development on keeping its employees well informed.
Victoria Casino were awarded a five star programme, which includes succession status by the British Safety Councils Employees pride in the Company and planning, ensures the management commitment to its goals also come across Five Star Health and Safety Management and development of talent within the System Audit.
The five star audit is very strongly in Ranks survey results.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 33 DIRECTORS REPORT: OPERATING RESPONSIBLY CONTINUED A In2009MeccaBingos fundraisingefforts have providedmorethan60 childrenwith bespoke mobility equipment.
Among themis livelyfive-year oldDaniel whocan now propel himself and join in withclassmates for thevery firsttime onthe special trikeprovided byWhizz-Kidz.
This equipment was unavailableto Danielon theNHSand is muchmore expensive thanaregulartrikeso Danielsparents decidedto applyto Whizz-Kidz.
With the help of fundsraised byMeccaBingo Bradford, Whizz-Kidz wasable to meettheir request.
As well as being lotsoffun, thetrikewillassist inDanielsphysical development, helpingto strengthen his legs and improvecoordination, andall the familyare :We are all overthe moon!This is the first bike Daniel has been able torideby himselfandhereally loves it!
continued to work towards achieving Mecca Bingo and Meccabingo.
Our natural environment The Carbon Trust Standard, which Through the efforts and generosity of Our environmental strategy focuses on recognises good practice in the key customers and employees, we beat our energy efficiency as our main priority.
areas of measurement, management fundraising target and raised a total Having established our environment and reduction targeted for summer of 516,000 for Whizz-Kidz this year.
committee in 2007, we have continued to 2010 : and Inventive campaigns were key to this take steps to reduce our carbon footprint.
verified our previous carbon calculations success including: Approximately 90% of our emissions to establish a basis for future reporting.
Mobiles for Mobility 7,000 raised come from energy use in our buildings through customers donating old These and other environmental initiatives and the remainder from travel and waste unwanted phones: are being undertaken to ensure Rank disposal, so we have been working with Currency for Kidz foreign coin fulfils its commitments in energy, carbon The Carbon Trust to improve energy recycling scheme and and cost efficiency.
efficiency and ensure compliance with the Heels for Wheels our shoe recycling Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC.
scheme launched by Theresa May MP Our suppliers Working with Inenco an energy and supported by local football teams,  management, sustainability and the Wigan Warriors rugby league team environmental consultancy and  and a number of celebrities who all  The Carbon Trust, we have carried out donated old shoes.
Ranks detailed energy surveys in a representative This year we also worked with the public  sample of properties, identifying ways sector on two campaigns of benefit to  to save energy and costs with potential our customers.
First, Mecca Bingo clubs  for implementation across our estate.
hosted the Department of Work and  Recommendations cover energy use in Pensions Eyes Down for Extra Cash excellentsocial,  everything from air conditioning to roadshows to generate greater take-up credentials.
Ourannualprocurement catering, and the charging procedures of entitlements by eligible pensioners , used for electronic bingo terminals.
In who are also Mecca customers.
Second,  addition to this work, the introduction NHS Patient roadshows took place in foodandbeverages, utilitiesandcleaning.
of automated gas and electricity meter clubs across England to highlight the reading in Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca Our communities different ways that Mecca customers Bingo is providing us with an in-depth can access healthcare services.
understanding of consumption patterns, Our strategy is to target investment at enabling energy use to be analysed on both a national and local level through a daily basis site-by-site.
When fully our support for a flagship charity with implemented this will lead to increased nationwide coverage that directs support energy efficiency across our estate.
to where it is needed locally.
This year we also: In 2009 there was continued success held seven regional training seminars in raising money for Whizz-Kidz, our on CRC and energy efficiency: national charity partner supported by 34 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
