Name: Paddy Gallagher Title: Finance director Appointment: June 2008 Age: 46 Skills and experience: A former finance Board Committees Executive Management director of Quadriga Worldwide Limited, Remuneration: Mecca Bingo Paddy Gallagher previously held senior Richard Greenhalgh chairman Managing Director Mark V Jones finance positions with information Owen ODonnell technology companies Dell Corporation, Grosvenor Casinos Bill Shannon Wang and Sun Microsystems.
Managing Director Phil Urban John Warren Rank Interactive Nominations: Managing Director Mark A Jones Peter Johnson chairman Richard Greenhalgh Top Rank Espaa Bill Shannon Managing Director Valentn Corua John Warren Corporate Ian Burke Chief Executive Ian Burke Finance: Finance Director Paddy Gallagher Peter Johnson chairman Ian Burke Company Secretary Frances Bingham Paddy Gallagher Compliance & Development Director Audit: Alan Armstrong John Warren chairman Human Resources Director Sue Waldock Richard Greenhalgh Owen ODonnell Strategy Director Julian Barker Bill Shannon For information on our remuneration committee, please see: Name: John Warren p. 48 Title: Non-executive director Appointment: January 2006 For information on our nominations committee, Age: 56 please see: Skills and experience: Formerly group finance director of WH Smith plc and p. 43 United Biscuits plc and a non-executive director of RAC plc, Rexam plc, Arla UK For information on our finance plc and BPP Holdings Limited, John committee, please see: Warren currently holds non-executive p. 43 directorships at Bovis Homes Group plc, Spectris plc and Uniq plc.
For information on our audit committee, please see: p. 46 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 41 DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE B B Corporategovernance The names and biographies of all directors are published on Howwerunthebusiness pages 40 and 41.
Further specific responsibilities are delegated to our four committees remuneration, nominations, finance and audit.
 They report to the board and operate within defined terms of  reference, which can be obtained from our website or by writing .
Executive team Our executive team is not a board committee.
It is responsible for day-to-day trading and is accountable to the chief executive for promoting and developing a profitable, long-term business.
Balance and independence This statement explains our governance policies and practices and how we run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
We believe the boards size and structure is well balanced, Our policy is to manage the Company in line with the providing a collective competence to suit the Groups principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and the Code, revised by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in non-executive skill.
We complied fully with the Code throughout the year.
The board considers the chairman and non-executive directors to be independent and suitably qualified to help steer and challenge Group strategy.
To manage the business successfully on behalf of our The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each shareholders, we need: director are set out on page 52 and their interests in Rank shares A trusting and open two-way relationship between the board and are detailed on page 53. executive management.
Chairman and chief executive Policies and processes that monitor, control and continually improve our performance.
We have approved a clear division of responsibilities for the People with the skills to reach our goals.
A company-wide culture of responsibility and compliance.
The chairman is charged to: Manage the business of the board, preside over meetings and seek prompt and appropriate decisions.
Where appropriate we will consider the recommendations Work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive arising out of the recent Walker Review and the ongoing FRC accurate and clear information for the proper execution of review of the Code.
Oversee effective communication with shareholders.
Roles and relationships Keep the Groups progress and development under review.
Your board Ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and The board consists of: strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value.
Evaluate the board and its committees.
Ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with .
The chief executives role is to: Manage and promote long-term profitable development.
We are responsible for: Exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and Group strategy, objectives and policies.
financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies are General and long-term progress within the political, economic, environmental and social setting of the day.
Financial performance, annual budgets and business plans.
Plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for board Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments.
Annual and half-year financial results and interim management Ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and statements.
policies, as approved by the board.
Annual audit and monitoring the independence of, and nonEnsure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each audit services supplied by, the statutory auditors.
Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them Board committees and their terms of reference.
individually, that their performance is monitored, and that Internal controls and risk management.
Sound governance, health and safety, and environmental policies.
guidance is given when needed.
Board and company secretary appointments.
Take responsibility for Group health and safety policies.
Senior management structure, remuneration and succession.
Make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation.
Lead ongoing communication with employees.
42 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
