Strengthen our position 2 Our core market New to the G Casino estate in 2009 Great Britain is Ranks principal market.
Bolton conversion from Grosvenor Casino to G Casino April 2009 Our bingo clubs and casinos in England, Capital investment 1.3m Scotland and Wales account for more Coventry acquisition and conversion to G Casino April and September 2009 than 80% of Group revenue and Capital investment 1.7m to acquire and convert operating profit before central costs.
In Dundee new G Casino October 2009 addition, the majority of Rank Interactives customers are based in Britain.
Capital investment 5.0m Despite the volatility of recent years, Shefeld relocation of existing licence to new site December 2009 our core market has provided a relatively Capital investment 4.8m stable environment for gaming and Note: capital investment gures may include prior year expenditure.
betting by comparison with many other jurisdictions around the world.
This is built upon the following characteristics: Cultural acceptance Regulated gaming casino licences in Britain, we have Selective investment and betting have a long history within ample scope to develop our business Britain and there is a widespread During 2009, Ranks capital investment beyond this medium-term target, with cultural acceptance of the individuals programme totalled 34.3m, roughly half 12 non-operating unutilised casino right to have a utter as a means of of which was deployed in expanding the licences and the opportunity to upgrade entertainment.
According to the 2007 Groups reach or developing new concepts.
or relocate a large number of our existing Gambling Prevalence Survey, 68% of The majority of this investment was casinos.
British adults participate in at least one focused on our two largest businesses, form of gaming or betting.
Electric Casino Grosvenor Casinos and Mecca Bingo.
As announced previously, we are Cautiously enlightened regulation In both businesses we have used British governments have in general developing a number of smaller format customer insight to define innovative casinos for those locations which do not adopted a cautiously enlightened modern leisure venues G Casino and approach to the regulation of gambling.
yet support investment in a full Mecca Full House delivered within the G Casino.
These formats will typically While at times overly conservative scope of the licensing regime for gaming operating restrictions have held back generate a higher proportion of revenue in Britain.
from electronic gaming and require development, they have also prevented We have budgeted to invest between over-supply and the regulatory volatility lower levels of capital and operating 40.0m and 45.0m of capital in 2010, expenditure than G Casinos.
witnessed in certain other jurisdictions.
with a large part directed towards the Opportunity to integrate with In July 2009 we launched expansion and enhancement of our the Grosvenor Electric Casino, a fully mainstream leisure Britains willingness British land-based gaming businesses.
to modernise regulations in line with electronic gaming venue co-located G Casino changing social attitudes is in itself a with our traditional Grosvenor Casino G Casino combines traditional casino catalyst for controlled growth.
Capital investment in the gaming with good quality food and time, the rescinding of some of the casino was 0.3m.
drink, entertainment and community more repressive gaming regulations We plan to develop six of our games such as card room poker offered in e. g. permitting casino advertising 12 non-operating casino licences under large and high prole venues.
Launched and customer rewards programmes, similar smaller formats.
in Manchester in 2006, the G Casino withdrawing the 24-hour cooling-off brand had grown to ten casinos by the Mecca Full House periods for bingo club and casino During 2009, Rank launched the Mecca end of 2009.
G Casinos success in membership has gradually allowed reaching out to a broader base of British Full House concepts with the ambition the industry to move from the margins of offering female-friendly gaming-based adult consumers is reected in average towards the mainstream of leisure retail.
levels of weekly customer visits more entertainment within the framework of the bingo licensing regime.
than 50% higher than the average for a provincial casino in Britain.
Mecca Full House Destination clubs combine affordable social gaming During the year, we added four new casinos to the G Casino estate at a cost e. g. bingo with good value food and drink, live entertainment, After Dark of 12.8m see table above.
During the current year, we will open events and an extensive electronic gaming offer.
at least two G Casinos, converting the Grosvenor Casinos at Brighton and The format is designed to appeal Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
to bingo players and non-bingo players Our target is to have built a portfolio alike, accommodating the key strengths of 20 G Casinos in Britain by the end of bingo within a modern leisure venue.
of 2012, developing new casinos and The first Full House Destination club re-branding existing casinos to the was opened in Beeston, Nottingham in G Casino format.
Despite the cap on May 2009 after a 5.0m investment.
Visit G Casino: p. 22-23 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 11 DIRECTORS REPORT: STRATEGY CONTINUED A Trading to date has been encouraging, to support the G Casino brand building with average weekly customer visits twostrategy.
During the year, 46% of Rank thirds higher than the estate average for Interactives marketing expenditure Mecca Bingo.
supported its bingo and casino websites, In December 2009, an existing Mecca a signicantly higher proportion than Bingo club at Catford in London was in previous years.
converted to the Full House Destination Of particular note was the launch format at a cost of 1.0m.
of a TV advertising campaign for In January 2010, we re-opened our meccabingo.
com, which was aired club in Oldbury, West Midlands following during October and November.
a 1.6m conversion to the Full House As a consequence of these actions, Destination format: and in April we will we generated significant revenue growth complete a similar project at Aberdeen.
com, while online casino We will determine the further roll-out revenue returned to growth in the final of this format based upon the success quarter of the year after seven consecutive of the Catford, Oldbury and Aberdeen quarters of year-on-year decline.
conversions but estimate that During the current year, we approximately 50% of our Mecca Bingo will maintain brand support for clubs may in time be suitable.
com including a second For the remainder of the estate, TV advertising campaign.
In addition, we developed Mecca Full House Local, we will continue to support targeted at the traditional bingo market gcasino.
com, migrating customers from and based around product and service grosvenorcasinos.
co. uk and continuing improvements supported by modest our in-club marketing campaign.
second half of the year, we will launch In December 2009, we converted our poker on gcasino.
com, leveraging the Eltham Hill and Hackney Road clubs in strength of our land-based card London to the Full House Local concept, room business.
following a combined investment of Overseas development 0.5m.
Early results in both clubs have been encouraging and we plan to convert Rank has an established track record our Chester club to the format in the operating land-based gaming businesses first half of 2010. outside Britain, through our bingo clubs in Spain and our casinos in Belgium.
As Rank Interactive part of the Groups strategic development, During 2009, the Groups remote gaming we aim to expand the scale of our overseas business previously reported under our operations over the medium term, opening Blue Square sports betting brand was up wider growth opportunities and renamed Rank Interactive.
The move gradually redistributing the Groups signalled a shift in focus for our strategy regulatory and economic risk weighting.
in remote gaming and betting, with a In the near term, we see overseas greater emphasis on leveraging our brand growth potential for Rank Interactive strengths in bingo and casino games.
with opportunities to enter other In April, we carried out a major European markets as governments redevelopment of meccabingo.
com and establish regulatory frameworks for in September we launched gcasino.
com remote betting and gaming.
Our priority market is Spain, Footprint by number which is moving gradually towards the KPI of licensed venues establishment of a regulated regime for online gaming.
Our position in Spain, where we have operated as a gaming company since 1994, gives us a sound understanding of the market and would provide a rm base upon which to develop an online business.
The Group remains interested in expanding its land-based gaming operations within Europe.
However, in the immediate term our focus will be on stabilising Top Rank Espaa where severe 08 09 08 09 08 09 08 09 economic conditions and the threat of Mecca Bingo Top Rank Espaa a full smoking ban present challenges.
Grosvenor Casinos Rank Group 12 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 102 103 11 11 34 37 147 151 Work positively with governments and regulators 3 brought into the casino gaming duty Sustainability any industrys ability to Positive engagement regime at rates of up to 50%.
contribute to society via job creation and Gaming is generally subject to a far In aggregate the changes resulted in tax generation requires an environment higher degree of regulation and political 5.7m of unbudgeted taxation costs for where long-term commercial success and influence than other sectors of the Rank in 2009. stability are encouraged.
Following lobbying from Rank and These principles form the basis for Ranks Rank recognises that it has a the Bingo Association, HM Government engagement with the governments and responsibility to its shareholders, employees agreed to ameliorate the tax increase on regulators in Britain, Spain and Belgium.
and customers to maintain an active and bingo to 20% from the time of the 2010 open programme of engagement with Budget.
The Conservative Party, Liberal Taxation fair, regulators, governments and other Democrats and Scottish National Party simple, sustainable interested parties in order to promote have all called for the rate to be fairness, responsibility and sustainability.
As part of this approach, Rank has Despite a heightened programme The net full-year effect of all the published Responsible taxation: Fairness, of engagement in 2009, the year brought changes is estimated to be approximately.
Simplicity, Sustainability, calling for a mixed results for Rank with positive comprehensive review of the taxation Spain regulatory developments undermined by system for betting and gaming in the UK.
In January 2010, the bingo clubs trade generally negative changes to taxation.
Under the Groups proposals, the current association, the Confederacin Espaola patchwork regime of taxation would be Regulation fide Organizaciones fide Empresarios del replaced by a single rate of duty for all Juego del Bingo CEJ achieved a modest Britain activities governed by the Gambling Act.
reduction in bingo duty in the autonomous During the year, Mecca Bingo benefited We consider that this system offers region of Catalonia where Rank operates from a number of progressive changes a number of benets in terms of the five clubs.
Rank estimates that the change to gaming machine entitlements for economy, social policy and the will benefit Top Rank Espaas annual licensed bingo clubs, following a safeguarding of employment in the operating profit by approximately 0.6m.
campaign by Rank and the Bingo British gaming and betting industry.
Responsibility, fairness Fairness removal of arbitrary In February, the maximum number and sustainability distinctions, particularly those which of Category B3 machines permitted in penalise UK-domiciled companies and bingo clubs was increased from four to We accept that our right to operate benefit offshore companies: eight: and in June the maximum stakes gaming and betting businesses comes with and prizes on Category C machines were certain responsibilities: and we understand Economic contribution generates raised from 50p to 1 and from 35 to greater and more sustainable revenues that our long-term commercial success 70 respectively.
rests on how society perceives the value for the Exchequer and stimulates job Rank estimates that the aggregate creation in Britain: of what we contribute to the communities benefit of these changes was approximately within which we operate.
Lower administration costs less onerous 3.0m in revenue on an annualised basis.
We believe that our contribution to administer, enabling both gaming to society is overwhelmingly positive, Spain companies and HM Revenue and through the enjoyment we give to our In October, changes to gaming machine Customs to achieve cost savings: customers and the wide economic regulations in the autonomous region of Support social policy achieves benets that arise from our operations.
Madrid where Rank operates three bingo We are also proud of our record with alignment with the aims of the Gambling clubs allowed licensed bingo clubs to Act by ending the current discrimination regard to upholding the principles of the offer an expanded range of gaming against those forms of betting and Gambling Act to protect young people machines.
Under the new system, the gaming which offer the highest levels and the vulnerable, to keep crime out and maximum jackpot available on machines of customer protection.
in these clubs increased from 120 We have a vision for the gaming to 18,000.
In Spain, Rank is supporting the CEJ industry, involving operators, regulators in making a similar submission, calling for and governments, and built around Taxation online gambling to be made subject to the three principles: countrys regulatory and tax frameworks Britain and the harmonisation of taxation across Responsibility for all parties to act In April 2009, regressive new regimes all forms of gaming and betting.
of taxation were brought into effect with consideration for the welfare of customers, employees and the for bingo played in licensed clubs and card room games played in casinos.
wider communities: Fairness fairness and transparency The rate of bingo duty was increased from 15% to 22%: card room games should be fundamental to the way that gaming and betting businesses are run, such as poker and mah jong previously subject to VAT at the standard rate were regulated and taxed: THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 13 DIRECTORS REPORT: RISK MANAGEMENT A Effective risk management he Group has established Area Specic risks threats procedures to identify, evaluate Consumer i The effect of macro-economic conditions on consumer and manage significant risks confidence may lead to a decline in customer visits and spending.
engagement and to monitor performance.
TThis framework is reviewed ii The failure of our businesses to provide engaging and annually and is designed to safeguard valuable experiences may result in a decline in customer visits the value of shareholders investments and spending.
and the Groups assets, while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
The senior management Competitive The attractiveness of Ranks businesses, to customers, employees team is responsible for making sure that and other stakeholders, may be undermined by superior or better threats controls and procedures are enforced and value propositions from direct and indirect competitors.
that the board is informed of any risks and control issues that arise.
i Reversal of rulings on VAT reclaims: Taxation During 2008, Rank received from HMRC 59.1m relating to overpaid VAT.
Ranks claim has been upheld both in tribunal and the High Court.
However, HMRC continues to appeal the case.
In the event that Rank were to lose a subsequent appeal the case goes before the Court of Appeal in April 2010, the Group would be required to pay back to HMRC the consideration plus interest.
ii Increases in gaming taxation: Since 2007, Ranks earnings have been negatively impacted by successive increases in UK gaming taxation, with particular regard to casino games, bingo and player-to-player card room games.
During 2009, HM Treasury launched a consultation into reform of taxation for gaming machines.
If implemented, Treasurys proposals could result in an increase in tax costs for Rank.
i Negative regulatory reform: Regulation Given the politicised nature of gambling market governance, Ranks operations may be at risk from adverse changes in regulations, such as restrictions on advertising or on offering certain games.
ii Loss of licence: Serious breach of gambling regulations may result in the partial or complete loss of Ranks licences to operate.
Financing i Absence of or withdrawal of nancing facilities adequate to meet the Groups requirements.
ii significant increases in the cost of nancing.
For more information on our risk management processes, see: p. 46 14 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Consumer weakness or consumer indifference have a negative The Group invests in a broad programme of customer effect on most of the Group KPIs, including net promoter score, insight research to identify ways to improve the attractiveness active customers, customer visits, spend per visit, revenue, of our customer propositions and to forecast the effects of operating profit and earnings per share.
These conditions would macro-economic conditions.
Mitigation may take the form also impair the attractiveness of our business expansion plans.
of actions to support revenues as well as actions to control costs in challenging conditions.
It is likely that increased competition would negatively affect Although the highly regulated nature of gaming does all of Ranks KPIs.
provide certain barriers to direct competitive intrusion, it does not protect against the impact of indirect competition e. g. television, internet.
The Group invests in a broad programme of customer insight research to develop ways to improve the attractiveness of our customer propositions and to identify new competitive threats.
i Requirement to repay VAT reclaims would have a negative i Rank continues to press its claims for overpaid VAT, supported impact on Group basic and adjusted earnings per share.
Whilst by legal counsel and the tax advisory team at Deloitte.
the Group forecasts that it would remain comfortably within banking covenants, it would increase financial gearing and may potentially limit Ranks ability to invest in its businesses.
ii Further increases in gaming taxation would have a negative ii Rank has set out an agenda for scal reform which would impact on Group operating profit and earnings per share.
see Britains complicated system of gambling taxes replaced by Investment in the Groups businesses may be adversely affected, a single rate of duty see page 13.
The Group seeks to engage which would thus restrict growth.
In addition, if Rank is forced with HM Treasury, shadow Treasury teams, MPs and the gaming to pass on the effect of tax rises to customers, Group net and betting industry to discuss how a fairer, simpler and more promoter score may suffer too.
sustainable regime might be implemented.
i The introduction of regressive gambling regulations may i Rank is setting forward an agenda for the regulation negatively impact the customers experience and thus affect of Britains betting and gaming industry, based around net promoter scores.
It is likely that this in turn would affect responsibility, fairness and sustainability.
To support this, customer visits, spend per visit, revenue, operating profit and Rank maintains an active programme of engagement with earnings per share.
They may also impair the attractiveness DCMS, shadow DCMS teams, MPs, trade bodies and other of future investment in business expansion.
ii Loss of a licence to operate would affect each of Ranks ii Rank aims to maintain the highest standards of operation.
The Group has a strong track record of regulatory compliance and conducts an extensive programme of engagement with the Gambling Commission and other interested parties, such as GamCare.
i Inadequate funding would restrict the Groups ability to Ranks banking facilities are agreed until April 2012.
The Group support the growth strategies of its businesses and thus affect maintains a programme of active engagement with its banking customer numbers, customer visits, revenue, operating profit syndicate.
In addition, the success of the Groups efforts to and earnings per share.
reduce net debt and financial leverage and its tight capital control mitigates risk on renancing.
ii At present, nearly all of the Groups debt is oating rate.
significant increases in nancing costs would affect earnings per share.
THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 15 DIRECTORS REPORT: BINGO A Mecca: So much more In May 2009, we launched a new style of leisure venue at Beeston in Nottingham Mecca Full House Destination.
The club provides entertainment based around social gaming, aimed principally at women and is operated under the bingo clubs licensing regime.
Step inside for so much more... 16 THE RANK GROUP PLC: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009
