Moreathome Our customers told us that they like to play online as well as in-club.
All of our G Casino customers are offered the chance to play their favourite games from the comfort of their own homes, through gcasino.
com Moreholdem Our customers told us that they wanted more community games like Texas Hold Em Poker.
G Casino offers some of the biggest and best card rooms in the country.
DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW A Casinos Responsible operation Industry Overview Reported breaches of self-exclusion Reported incidences of underage 2008 2009 gambling 2008 2009  .
GAMING RESTOF CASINOS CASINOS INDUSTRY GAMING AVERAGE INDUSTRY Source: Gambling Commission Source: Gambling Commission Charts show percentage of self-exclusions breached in casinos compared with industry average.
Industry average comprises all land-based gaming venues in Great Britain.
Rest of industry comprises licensed betting offices, adult gaming centres and bingos clubs.
About casinos Great Britain How casinos generate revenue Restrictions  1968Act 2005Act 2005Act , the Description  Casino SmallCasino LargeCasino  Casino table games intoexistencein1968.
Fixed odds betting on Odds incorporate No restriction on number  games of probability, house edge, giving of tables permitted  played against casino slight advantage House sets maximum  the house on each bet staking level blackjack.
Inaddition, mostcasinos Electronic roulette No restriction where terminal , Casino table game As above is linked to a manned .
Some using electronic roulette wheel: maximum , sports terminal of 40 terminals linked to .
automated roulette wheel A record of responsibility Gaming machines The sector is subject to a number Electronic gaming Typically machines 20 machines Up to 80 Up to 150 of restrictive regulations, particularly using random are set to retain B1 to B4 machines machines with regard to the provision of gaming number generator between 5% and or categories categories machines.
As a consequence, fewer than 10% of stakes over Unlimited C B1 to D B1 to D 1% of Britains total number of gaming a cycle and D machines machines are located within casinos.
Card room games However, Gambling Commission data Player-to-player games Standard hourly charge suggests that Britains casinos offer higher e. g. poker, mah jong or No restrictions levels of customer protection than most Rake casino retains other gaming venues.
small percentage of Growth in participation and visits each pot Inrecentyears, thenumberofadults Food and drink  Bars and restaurants Charges for food Subject to liquor licensing .
and drink  Sports betting PrevalenceSurvey, just4%ofBritish See page 28 Customer stakes less Not permitted Permitted Permitted .
Thisis customer winnings  Bingo Not , suchas See page 18 Participation fee Not permitted Permitted Permitted .
Data from the Gambling Commission shows that customer visits to casinos During2009, therewasaslight , leaving have increased steadily over recent years   as progressive changes to gaming , asfour cappedat203  regulations such as the removal of the .
24-hour cooling-off period for new  Ranks Grosvenor Casinos business customers and investment in larger marginally,  developed two new casinos and acquired premises and wider amenities have  one casino and one non-operating casino stimulated growth.
Gala Casinos and Genting 24 24 THE THE RANK RANK GROUP GROUP P PLC: LC: ANNUAL ANNUAL R REPORT EPORT AND AND FINANCIAL FINANCIAL ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 2009 2009
