Report of the Directors The Directors submit their third Annual Acquisitions and disposals or the transfer of securities in the Company Report to the members of the Company, There have been no material acquisitions or except, in the case of transfers of securities: with the audited financial statements for disposals during the year.
That certain restrictions may from time to the year ended 31 December 2009.
Employees time be imposed by laws and regulations for Review of the activities and development During 2009, the Group employed an average example, insider trading laws : and of the Groups business of 24,900 2008: 24,300 people worldwide, Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the The principal activities continue to be the of whom 2,500 2008: 2,400 were employed Financial Services Authority whereby certain manufacture and sale of household and health in the UK.
The Group is committed to the employees of the Company require the care products.
principle of equal opportunity in employment: approval of the Company to deal in the no applicant or employee receives less Audited results for the period are set out Companys ordinary shares.
favourable treatment on the grounds of on pages 26 and 27.
The performance of nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
No person holds securities in the Company the business is described in the Chairmans The Group recognises its responsibilities to carrying special voting rights with regard to Statement on page 1, the Chief Executives disabled persons and endeavours to assist control of the Company.
The Company is not Statement on pages 2 to 3 and the Business them to make their full contribution at work.
aware of any agreements between holders of Review on pages 4 to 10.
Within the Where employees become disabled, every securities that may result in restrictions on the Business Review, which appears on pages 4 practical effort is made to allow them to transfer of securities or on voting rights.
to 10, principal risk factors are given under continue in their jobs or to provide retraining Relationships and Principal Risks on pages The Directors were granted authority at the in suitable alternative work.
6 and 7, details of the key performance last Annual General Meeting AGM held in indicators KPIs are given on page 10 and It is essential to the continued improvement 2009 to allot shares up to a nominal amount information on the likely future developments in efficiency and productivity throughout the of 23,662,000.
That authority will apply of the Company under Company Prospects on Group that each employee understands the until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Information regarding environmental Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
this years AGM, on 6 May 2010, shareholders matters, the Companys employees and will be asked to grant an authority to make Open and regular communication with social and community issues are given on such allotments up to a nominal amount employees at all levels is an essential part of the page 7.
Information about persons with representing approximately one third of the management process.
A continuing programme whom the Company has contractual or other Companys issued share capital as at the latest of training and development reinforces the arrangements which are essential to the practicable date prior to the publication of Groups commitment to employee involvement.
business of the Company are given on page 6. the Notice of AGM.
In line with guidance The Companys financial risk management Regular departmental meetings are held issued by the Association of British Insurers, objectives and policies are set out on pages 6 to where opinions of employees are sought shareholders will also be asked to grant an 7 of the Business Review and note 24 on pages on a variety of issues.
The Group operates authority to allot shares in connection with 54 to 58. multi-dimensional internal communications a rights issue in favour of shareholders up to programmes which include the provision of a an aggregate nominal amount representing The information referred to above fulfils the Group Intranet and the publication of regular approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary requirements of the business review provisions Company newsletters.
share capital excluding treasury shares of of s. 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the Company as at the latest practicable date and is incorporated by reference into, and Company incentive schemes reinforce prior to publication of the Notice of AGM.
The shall be deemed to form part of, this report financial and economic factors affecting the authorities sought would, if granted, expire at together with the other information referred to performance of the business.
All employees the earlier of 30 June 2011 or at the conclusion in this report.
This Report of the Directors has have 3-5 performance objectives which are of the AGM of the Company held in 2011. been drawn up and presented in accordance directly linked to their job and its role in the with, and in reliance upon, applicable English overall performance of the Group.
In addition, A special resolution will also be proposed to company law and the liabilities of the Directors presentations are given to employees around renew the Directors power to make non-prein connection with this report shall be subject the Group on publication of the Groups emptive issues for cash up to a nominal amount to the limitations and restrictions provided by financial results.
representing less than 5% of the Companys such law.
issued share capital as at the latest practicable The Board encourages employees to become date prior to the publication of the Notice In July 2009, the Directors resolved to pay shareholders and to participate in the Groups of AGM.
an interim dividend of 43p per ordinary employee share ownership schemes, should share 2008: 32p.
The dividend was paid they so wish.
Sharesave schemes across the In accordance with the Companys decision on 28 September 2009.
The Directors are world give employees the opportunity to made in 2009, a buy back programme was recommending a final dividend for the year acquire shares in the Company by means of not pursued during the year.
The buy back of 57p per share 2008: 48p, which, together regular savings.
programme continues to be subject to regular with the interim dividend, makes a total for review and accordingly a resolution seeking to Share capital the year of 100p per share 2008: 80p.
renew the authority to make market purchases As at 31 December 2009, the Companys The final dividend, if approved by the will be put to shareholders at this years AGM issued share capital consisted of 719,926,670 shareholders, will be paid on 27 May 2010 to so that the Directors retain the flexibility to Ordinary shares of 10p and 2,441,842 Ordinary ordinary shareholders on the register at the reinstate the share buy back programme should shares held in treasury.
Details of changes close of business on 26 February 2010. they so decide.
This authority will be limited to to the ordinary shares issued, shares held in a maximum of 72,000,000 ordinary shares and In the view of the Directors, the Groups likely Treasury, and of options and awards granted sets the minimum and maximum prices which future development will continue to centre during the year are set out in note 21 to may be paid.
on the main product categories in which it the accounts.
Directors The rights and obligations attaching to the Information regarding the Directors of the Research and development Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Company who were serving on 31 December The Group continues to carry out research Companys Articles of Association, copies of 2009, and those serving at the date of and development in the search for new and which can be obtained from Companies House in this report is set out on page 11.
Further improved products in all its categories and for the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
biographical details of all Directors are available increased manufacturing efficiencies.
Direct There are no restrictions on the voting rights from the Companys website.
expenditure on R&D in 2009 amounted to attaching to the Companys ordinary shares 126m 2008: 109m.
During the year there were the following changes to the Board of Directors.
David Tyler 12 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 resigned on 30 September.
Richard Cousins and The Board comprises eight Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient time Warren Tucker were appointed as independent Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors on 1 October 2009 and Chairman, who has the responsibility for The Board carried out a structured debate to 24 February 2010 respectively.
As these were managing the Board, and two Executive evaluate its own performance in 2009. appointments made subsequent to the date of Directors, Bart Becht, the Chief Executive Graham Mackay, as the Senior Independent the 2009 AGM, they will offer themselves for Officer CEO, and Colin Day, the Chief Non-Executive Director, conducted an election at this years AGM.
The Company has evaluation of the Chairmans performance in adopted a Board structure which is similar Adrian Bellamy and Peter Harf have served on conjunction with his Non-Executive Director to that of its key international competitor the Board for more than nine years and under colleagues with input from both Executive companies, the majority of which are based the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Directors.
The Nomination Committee has in the USA.
The Board approves strategy, Governance the Code, are therefore primary responsibility for reviewing the carries out an advisory and supervisory role obliged to offer themselves for re-election performance of individual Directors and in and accepts ultimate responsibility for the on an annual basis.
In addition, Directors addition to this review process, the Chairman conduct of the Companys business.
The required to offer themselves for re-election in carried out an evaluation of the performance CEO, together with the other members of his accordance with the Articles of Association at of individual Directors by face-to-face, Executive Committee, provides the day-to-day this years AGM are Colin Day, Kenneth Hydon one-on-one interviews.
The Board is of the management of the Company.
and Judith Sprieser, who being eligible, offer view that it is best placed to carry out such themselves for re-election.
The Board has identified Graham Mackay as the evaluations, without the need to employ Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in the services of an outside consultancy, and A statement of Directors interests in the share accordance with provision A.
that this is an appropriate and cost-effective capital of the Company is shown in Table 1 at The majority of Non-Executive Directors are procedure.
The performance of the CEO, and the end of this report.
independent, as recommended by the Code.
of other members of the Executive Committee, Details of Directors options to subscribe for is regularly reviewed by the Remuneration Two of the Non-Executive Directors are not shares in the Company are included in Table 2 Committee of the Board.
considered to be independent for all purposes: on page 23 in the audited part of the Directors Adrian Bellamy, as Chairman of the Board, The Executive Committee presents an annual Remuneration Report.
and because he has served as a Director for strategic review and the Annual Plan to the Board Details of the Directors service agreements are more than nine years, and Peter Harf, Deputy for its approval.
Actual performance against given on page 24.
Chairman, because of the shareholding he the Plan is presented to the Board at each of its represents, and because he has served as a regular meetings and any changes to forecasts as Directors Insurance and Indemnities Director for more than nine years.
a result of current performance are reviewed.
On 28 July 2009 the Company executed a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of each Mr Day is a Non-Executive Director of WPP All members of the Board receive timely reports individual who is at any time on, or after Group plc and Cadbury plc.
This is nonon items arising at meetings of the Board to 28 July 2009, an officer of the Company compliant with Code Provision A.
4.5 which enable them to give due consideration to such and or any company within the Reckitt requires that no full time Executive Director items in advance of the meetings.
Benckiser Group of companies in respect of should hold more than one non-executive Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate costs of defending claims against them and directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
Both briefings on the Company and its operations third party liabilities.
WPP Group plc and Cadbury plc are FTSE 100 around the world when they are appointed companies.
This exception was made, subject In addition, the Directors have the benefit to the Board.
They are encouraged to visit the to certain specific conditions, when Mr Day of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys offices and factories, whenever the accepted the appointment to the board of Companys existing Articles and such provision opportunity presents itself, where they can be Cadbury plc in 2009, and continues to apply will also be included in the Companys new briefed on the local business operations.
The because the Board believes that experience Articles the new Articles.
Directors and Board endeavours to hold one meeting each as the Chairman of the Cadbury plc audit Officers liability insurance cover has been year at one of the operating units.
committee is useful in Mr Days role as CFO of maintained throughout the year at the expense Reckitt Benckiser.
Full, formal and tailored induction processes of the Company.
are put in place on appointment to the Board The Articles of Association require that every Corporate governance statement which retain flexibility to allow the new Director Director will seek re-election to the Board at The Company recognises the importance of to have input to the induction process so that least every three years, in line with provision high standards of corporate governance.
areas of particular interest to that Director can A.
The governance principles applying to The Board meets a minimum of five times UK companies listed on the London Stock All the Directors have access to the Company a year and will meet further as necessary to Exchange are contained in the Code, as Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that consider specific matters which it has reserved adopted by the Financial Reporting Council Board procedures are followed and that the to itself for decision, such as significant most recently revised in June 2008.
Company complies with all applicable rules, acquisition or disposal proposals or major Copies of the Code may be obtained from regulations and obligations governing the financing propositions.
A procedure exists for regular meetings.
A statement of the Directors understands and supports the main principles the Directors to take independent professional attendance at these Board meetings, and at set out in the Code.
The ways in which the advice, if necessary, in furtherance of their meetings of Board Committees on which they Company applies these principles, as contained duties at the Companys expense.
served during the year, is shown in Table 2 in section 1 of the Code and the few provisions at the end of this report.
In compliance with The members of the Executive Committee are with which the Company does not consider Code provision A.
1.3. the Chairman holds a appointed to the Committee by the CEO, who that it is appropriate to comply, are set out session with other Non-Executive Directors at leads the Committee.
in the following sections: Committees of the conclusion of each formal Board meeting the Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration The Executive Committee manages the daywithout the Executive Directors present.
Committee, Nomination Committee, Internal to-day operations of the Company.
Individual During the year the Board has carried out a Control, Group policy in respect of nonExecutive Committee members hold global formal evaluation of its performance and that audit services provided by external auditors, responsibility for specific operating functions of its Committees and individual Directors in Environmental Social and Governance ESG including category development, supply, accordance with Code provision A.
The matters and reputational risk and relations finance, human resources and information performance review of the Board undertaken in with shareholders.
The three Area Executive Vice 2009 concluded that the Chairman and other Reckitt Benckiser 2009 13 Report of the Directors continued Presidents covering Europe, North America financial reporting and governance matters.
In authority given by shareholders at the AGM Australia and Developing Markets are also addition to its routine agenda, the Committee in May 2008 to the Directors to authorise members of the Committee.
At present, received additional presentations from senior conflicts of interest, the Nomination Committee the CEO is fulfilling the role of Area EVP for management covering Information Services, has under its Terms of Reference the primary Europe.
There is no EVP for Pharmaceuticals Internal Audit, Group Tax and Group Treasury responsibility for considering Directors conflicts as management reports directly to the CEO functions.
The Committee took advantage of a of interest.
The Committee will consider and CFO.
Board meeting held overseas to meet with, and Directors other directorships and appointments receive presentations from, the local financial at least annually as part of the overall corporate The Company has procedures in place to deal management to better understand how Group governance evaluation process and, more with conflicts of interest as disclosed within policies are embedded in operations.
The frequently as circumstances may require.
The the section on the role of the Nomination CFO and other senior management attend Committee will recommend to the full Board Committee below and these procedures have Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The whether a conflict or potential conflict should operated effectively.
Groups external auditors and the Groups Vice be approved.
Approval is required to be given Committees of the Board President, Internal Audit attend meetings, have by the full Board and may not be delegated to The Company has established three regular private meetings with the Committee a Board committee.
Under s. 175, all Directors Committees of the Board, Audit, and have direct access to the Committee.
are under a duty to consider their positions fully Remuneration, Nomination the terms of at all times.
They must advise the Chairman Remuneration Committee reference of which are available on the immediately if they believe a potential conflict The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Companys website and upon request.
may arise so that the Nomination Committee Judith Sprieser, meets regularly to review may consider the position and the appropriate Audit Committee remuneration policy for Directors and course of action.
This may require a Director The Audit Committee comprises three senior executives.
The Committee also has to absent himself from Board discussions or Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth responsibility for making decisions on the be precluded from receiving Board papers and Hydon, Chairman since 16 November 2006, Chairmans remuneration.
The Committee may, in extreme circumstances, require his Andr Lacroix and Warren Tucker.
Kenneth comprises four members, of whom three, resignation from the Board.
Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, was Financial Judith Sprieser, Graham Mackay and Richard Director of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 Cousins, are considered independent as Internal control and Warren Tucker is Chief Financial Officer of defined by the standards of the Code.
Adrian The Board acknowledges that it has overall Cobham plc.
They both therefore have recent Bellamy is not considered independent as he responsibility for the Groups system of internal and relevant financial experience.
has served on the Board for more than nine control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and years.
The Board considers that Mr Bellamy has established a control structure designed to The Committee monitors the adequacy should remain a member of the Remuneration manage the achievement of business objectives.
and effectiveness of the internal controls, Committee in light of his considerable The system complies with the Turnbull guidance compliance procedures and the Groups experience and much valued contribution to on internal control and provides reasonable, overall risk framework including the Groups the working of the Committee.
Under the but not absolute, assurance against material whistleblowing arrangements.
It considers Code, it is acceptable for the Chairman to sit misstatement or loss.
reports on Internal Audits activities, significant on the Remuneration Committee.
legal claims and regulatory issues.
It reviews Throughout the year the Group has had in the interim and full year financial statements Nomination Committee place an ongoing process for evaluating the before submission to the full Board and makes The Nomination Committee is responsible system of internal control and identifying and recommendations to the Board regarding for nominating candidates for the approval managing risk, including in relation to the the auditors and their terms of appointment.
of the Board to fill vacancies on the Board financial reporting process and the preparation It reviews and monitors the external auditors of Directors.
The basis for the independence and services supplied and preparation of consolidated accounts is as set As and when vacancies arise on the Board, the the objectivity and the effectiveness of the out on page 30 under Accounting Policies.
services of an external search consultancy are audit process.
 LLP The Groups control environment is supported employed to seek candidates for appointment.
and their predecessor firms has been the by a Code of Business Conduct, which The Nomination Committee reviews each Groups auditors since the merger of Reckitt employees receive training on annually, and candidate as presented by the consultancy & Colman plc and Benckiser NV in 1999, and a range of policies on corporate responsibility.
and all members of the Committee are the Companys auditors since its formation in Other key elements within the internal control involved in the interview process before 2007.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, structure are summarised as follows: making their recommendations to the full the relationship with the auditors works well Board.
All members of the Board are given The Board and management the and the Committee remains satisfied with the opportunity to meet the recommended Board continues to approve strategy and their independence and effectiveness.
It has, candidates prior to their appointment.
performs an advisory and supervisory accordingly, not considered it necessary to role with the day-to-day management of require the firm to tender for the audit work to The Committee comprises the Chairman, the Company being undertaken by the date.
It is a requirement that the audit partner who also chairs the Committee, the CEO, the Executive Committee.
The CEO and other responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits Deputy Chairman and the Chairs of both the Executive Committee members have clearly is rotated every five years and the current lead Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The communicated the Group vision, strategy, audit partner has been in place since 2008.
Board believes this membership is appropriate operating constitutions, values and business There are no contractual obligations restricting to the Group despite this not being in objectives across the Group.
the Companys choice of external auditor.
4.1, which requires a majority of the members to be Organisational structure the Group The Committee met three times in 2009. independent.
Adrian Bellamy is not considered operates four Area management For a period following the resignation of independent as he has served on the Board organisations: Europe, North America David Tyler in September, the constitution for more than nine years, Peter Harf is not Australia, Developing Markets and of the Committee was non-compliant with considered independent because of the Pharmaceuticals, and centralised functions provision C. 3.1 of the Code as it had only shareholding he represents and because he has covering category management, supply, two independent Non-Executive Directors as served on the Board for more than nine years, sales, finance and legal, information services members.
It became compliant again upon the and Bart Becht is not considered independent and human resources.
Throughout the appointment of Warren Tucker as a Committee because he is the CEO.
organisation, the achievement of business member in February 2010.
The Committee objectives and the establishment of received regular technical updates from the Following the implementation of s. 175 of appropriate risk management and internal external auditors to keep abreast of changes in the Act on 1 October 2008 and, further to 14 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 control are embedded in the responsibilities Committee and the CFO keep under review the Key areas of ESG internal control and of line executives.
independence and objectivity of the external performance, including ESG disclosures, are auditors.
The Committee reviews the nature independently reviewed and verified by both Budgeting there is an annual planning and level of non-audit services undertaken by internal and external organisations, including process whereby detailed operating budgets the external auditors each year to satisfy itself Internal Audit, and their findings regularly for the following financial year are prepared that there is no effect on their independence.
reported to senior management, the CEO, the and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term The Board recognises that in certain Audit Committee and the Board.
business plans are also prepared and are circumstances the nature of the advice required reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The Board has identified and assessed the may make it more timely and cost-effective range of ESG and associated reputational risks Management reporting there is a to appoint the external auditors who already and concluded that there are limited material comprehensive system of management have a good understanding of the Group.
Any risks to the Companys longand short-term reporting.
The financial performance of significant information technology consultancy value arising from ESG matters, other than operating units and the Group as a whole projects are put out to tender and the external potential risks common to similarly sized is monitored against budget on a monthly auditors are excluded from this tender process.
businesses operating in its industrial sectors and basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
The external auditors report to the Audit with similarly well-known brands.
Area and functional executives also Committee on the actions they take to comply perform regular business reviews with their The issues of potential material ESG and with professional and regulatory requirements management teams, which incorporate an reputational risk identified by the Board include: and with best practice designed to ensure assessment of key risks and opportunities.
their independence from the Group, including Industry sector and product safety Risk management as part of the ongoing periodic rotation of the lead audit engagement regulatory risks: The household products risk and control process, operating units partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out and health & personal care sectors have a review and evaluate risks to the achievement in note 4 on page 37. number of potential product and ingredient of business objectives and the Board risks, relating to ongoing developments in Environmental, social and governance reviews those significant risks which might ingredient regulation and concerns voiced ESG matters and reputational risk impact on the achievement of corporate over the potential long-term effects of In line with the requirements of the Act, objectives.
Mitigating controls, together household chemicals and OTC over-thea rationale has been developed and a review with any necessary actions, are identified counter drug ingredients on human health undertaken to determine what information and implemented.
A summary of the most and the environment.
The Company has to include in this Report as necessary for significant risks faced by the Group is comprehensive management processes an understanding of the development, included in the Business Review on pages in place at Group, Area, Regional and performance and position of the business 6 to 7.
National level to ensure that its products of the Company relating to environmental are both suitable and safe for their intended Operating unit controls each operating matters including the impact of the Companys use, in addition to meeting applicable unit maintains internal controls, which are business on the environment, its employees, regulatory requirements.
Additionally, appropriate to its own business environment.
Much of the regulatory compliance and product safety Such controls must be in accordance with information required is provided here, and with issues are proactively addressed by both Group policies and include management regard to Employees and Internal Control on national and regional industry associations authorisation processes, to ensure that all pages 12 and 14 of the Report of the Directors, of which the Company is an active member, commitments on behalf of the Group are with an overall summary and other information including those in Europe and North entered into after appropriate approval.
In provided in the Business Review on pages 6 America Australia.
For example, the HERA particular, there is a structured process for and 7.
Human and Environmental Risk Assessment the appraisal and authorisation of all material The Board regularly considers and takes project, established in 1999, is a voluntary capital projects.
account of the significance of ESG matters industry programme of publicly available risk Monitoring the effectiveness of internal and their potential risks to the business of assessments on ingredients of household controls is monitored regularly through the Company, including risks relating to cleaning products www.
a combination of management review, environmental impacts, employees, society and As part of the Companys commitment self-assessment and internal and external communities, as well as reputational risks and to make continual improvements in the audit.
The results of external and internal the opportunities to enhance value that may environmental sustainability of its products audit reviews are reported to and considered arise from an appropriate response.
and processes, it continues to progress by the Audit Committee, and actions are The Board undertakes a formal review of ingredient removal programmes, above taken to address significant control matters ESG matters at least annually, which includes and beyond regulatory requirements, to identified.
The Audit Committee also providing oversight to ensure that the Company systematically remove specific ingredients approves annual internal audit plans and has in place effective policies, systems and from Company product formulae and is responsible for performing the ongoing procedures for managing ESG matters and packaging device component specifications review of internal control on behalf of mitigating significant ESG risks.
For example, recent programmes the Board.
as part of its risk assessment procedures, include: removal of nitro and polycyclic The Board confirms that reviews of the the Boards Audit Committee undertakes artificial musks, and Geranyl Nitrile, appropriateness and effectiveness of the system regular reviews of the arrangements for, and from fragrances: removal of PDCB of internal control throughout the financial year effectiveness of, risk management and internal paradichlorobenzene from toilet blocks: and up to the date of approval of the Annual audit, including the full range of risks facing the removal of NPEs Nonyl Phenol Ethoxylates, Report and Accounts have been satisfactorily Company, which include risks relating to ESG APEs Alkyl Phenol Ethoxylates and completed in compliance with provision C. 2.1 matters, reputational risks and risks relating monoethylene series glycol ethers from of the Code.
In particular major risks have been to employees.
use in household cleaning products: identified and ongoing monitoring procedures removal of brominated flame retardants The CEO is the Board member with specific are in place.
The Company is compliant with from devices: and, the replacement of responsibility for ESG matters.
6 and the information is included on formaldehyde preservative.
established management processes, which pages 12 and 17. include performance management systems and REACh Registration, Evaluation, Group policy in respect of non-audit appropriate remuneration incentives, senior Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals services provided by external auditors management reports directly to the CEO on is the framework for regulation and The Group has a formal policy in place to ESG matters on a regular basis.
management of chemicals in Europe which safeguard auditor independence.
The Audit was formally adopted by the European Union Reckitt Benckiser 2009 15 Report of the Directors continued in December 2006 and entered into force Sustainability and corporate responsibility the International Accounting Standards Board in 2007.
Information on the Companys management IASB.
Under company law the Directors must of sustainability and corporate responsibility not approve the financial statements unless Under REACh, as part of a phased issues is provided above: in other sections they are satisfied that they give a true and programme over several years, industry is of this Report of the Directors for examples fair view of the state of affairs of the Group required to register most substances that are regarding Employees and Internal Control : and the Company and of the profit or loss manufactured, imported or used in Europe.
in the Business Review on page 7 and, in the of the Group for that period.
In preparing The first of these phases, pre-registration, Companys annual Sustainability Reports, these financial statements, the Directors are started on 1 June 2008.
For the majority which provide information on its policies, required to: of substances i. e. ingredients used in the programmes, targets and progress in this area.
Companys products the responsibility for Select suitable accounting policies and then registration will lie with its suppliers, who Relations with shareholders apply them consistently: manufacture or import the ingredients The Board is committed to effective Make judgements and accounting estimates used.
Reckitt Benckiser is fully compliant communication between the Company and that are reasonable and prudent: with the provisions of REACh that needed its shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with to be implemented to date and as the first the Director, Investor Relations, meet regularly State whether IFRSs as adopted by the substance registration deadline of December with institutional shareholders and financial European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB 2010 approaches the Company continues analysts, in Europe and North America, to and applicable UK Accounting Standards to work closely with its suppliers to ensure discuss matters relating to the Companys have been followed, subject to any material that the ingredients used in its products are business strategy and current performance departures disclosed and explained in registered and that its full compliance with issues.
The Board receives regular monthly the Group and parent company financial REACh is maintained.
The Company has in reports from the CEO which include updates on statements respectively: place an internal REACh Task Force to ensure the share price development, major buyers and Prepare the financial statements on the that all of its products and their ingredients sellers of shares and investor views, including going concern basis unless it is inappropriate remain compliant with REACh as it is analyst reports on the industry and specifically to presume that the Company will continue implemented over the next several years.
Feedback on presentations in business.
and roadshow meetings with institutional Supply chain risks: Most product, component investors is presented to the Executive Directors The Directors are responsible for keeping and raw material supply chains present following twice-yearly roadshows in Europe and adequate accounting records that are a number of potential reputational risks North America.
sufficient to show and explain the Companys relating to: labour standards: health, transactions and disclose with reasonable safety and environmental standards: raw The Chairman is available to discuss governance accuracy at any time the financial position material sourcing: and the social, ethical and and strategy with major shareholders should of the Company and the Group and enable environmental performance of third party such a dialogue be requested.
During the year them to ensure that the financial statements manufacturers and other suppliers.
The the Chairman has met with shareholders in and the Directors Remuneration Report Companys Global Manufacturing Standard satisfaction of Code Provision D. 1.1 and has comply with the Act and, as regards the GMS mandates minimum requirements reported upon these meetings to the Directors.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the regarding employment arrangements, The Company believes that it is important IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for labour standards and health, safety and that it makes key executives available, along safeguarding the assets of the Company and environmental management, in line with with the Senior Independent Non-Executive the Group and hence for taking reasonable international guidelines, for both the Director, if required, to discuss matters of steps for the prevention and detection of Company and its suppliers.
Management concern with its shareholders.
The Companys fraud and other irregularities.
processes and controls in place include Annual General Meeting is used as the main Group, Area and Regional monitoring and opportunity for the Directors to communicate The Directors are responsible for the auditing of compliance with the GMS and with private investors.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys other requirements, including the external website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Policy on the payment of creditors audit of third party product manufacturers.
governing the preparation and dissemination It is the Companys policy to follow the CBI of financial statements may differ from Product quality risks: Failures in product Prompt Payers Code.
This policy requires the legislation in other jurisdictions.
quality controls could potentially lead to Company to agree the terms of payments with damage to the reputation of, and trust its suppliers, to ensure that those suppliers are Each of the Directors, whose names and in, the Companys brands.
The Company aware of those terms and to abide by those functions are listed on page 11 confirm that, has comprehensive quality management terms.
Copies of the Prompt Payers Code are to the best of their knowledge: processes and procedures in place, including available from CBI, Centre Point, 103 New The Group financial statements, which have Group, Area, Regional and site-level quality Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as functions that oversee and monitor product Statement of Directors responsibilities adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view quality globally.
The Directors are responsible for preparing of the assets, liabilities, financial position and The Companys annual Sustainability the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration profit of the Group: and Report available at www.
com provides Report and the financial statements in The Directors report includes a fair review further information on its policies, systems accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of the development and performance of and procedures for managing ESG matters Company law requires the Directors to prepare the business and the position of the Group, and any material risks that may arise from financial statements for each financial year.
together with a description of the principal them, including: the extent to which it Under that law the Directors have elected risks and uncertainties that it faces.
complies with those policies, systems and to prepare the Group financial statements procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : Going concern in accordance with International Financial and its sustainability programmes, targets The Groups business activities, together Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by and progress.
with the factors likely to affect its future the European Union, and the parent company development, performance and position are The Board believes that it receives adequate financial statements in accordance with United set out in the Business Review on pages 4 to information and training on ESG matters Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 10.
The financial position of the Group and and their potential risks and opportunities Practice United Kingdom Accounting Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and to the business of the Company, including Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups reputational risks.
Group financial statements, the directors have objectives, policies and processes for managing also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by its capital: its financial risk management 16 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 objectives: details of its financial instruments In accordance with the Shareholder Rights General Meeting following their appointment.
and hedging activities: and its exposure to Directive the Directive which came into Under the Code, and the Articles, all Directors credit risk and liquidity risk are described in force in August 2009, the Company obtained are required to offer themselves for re-election the Business Review on pages 4 to 10 and in shareholder approval at the 2009 AGM to the every three years.
note 24. calling of meetings, other than Annual General The Board of Directors is responsible for the Meetings, on 14 days notice.
Until the coming The Group has considerable financial resources management of the business of the Company into force of the Directive, the Company was together with a diverse customer and supplier and may exercise all the powers of the Company able to call meetings other than an AGM on base across different geographical areas and subject to the provisions of the Companys 14 clear days notice without obtaining such categories.
As a consequence, the Directors Articles.
The Articles contain specific provisions shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this believe that the Group and Company are and restrictions regarding the Companys ability, we will be asking shareholders to renew well placed to manage their business risks power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the their approval by considering Resolution 16 at successfully despite the current uncertain alteration of share capital are also included in the AGM.
the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew Adoption of new Articles of Association such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy The Directors have a reasonable expectation In order to reflect changes to company of the existing Articles is available on request that the Group and Company have adequate law in the United Kingdom made by the from the Company Secretary.
resources to continue in operational existence implementation of the remaining parts of the for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue Unless expressly specified to the contrary Act, which came into force on 1 October 2009, to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the Articles, the Companys Articles may the Company will be seeking approval from in preparing the annual financial statements.
be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders to adopt new Articles of Companys shareholders.
Audit Association the New Articles of the Company.
The Directors, having made appropriate The requirements and provisions as specified The principal changes introduced in the New enquiries, state that: above in the Companys existing Articles will Articles are summarised in the Appendix be reflected in the Companys new Articles a so far as each Director is aware, there is on page 6 to the Notice of AGM, Other of Association.
no relevant audit information of which the amendments, which are of a minor, technical or Companys auditors are unaware: and clarifying nature including those which merely There are a number of agreements that take reflect changes made by the Act or conform effect, alter or terminate upon a change b each Director has taken all the steps that the language of the New Articles with that of control of the Company following a he she ought to have taken as a Director used in the model articles for public companies takeover, such as commercial contracts, bank to make him herself aware of any relevant set out in the Companies Model Articles agreements, property lease arrangements audit information and to establish that Regulations 2008 have not been noted in and employees share plans.
None of these the Companys auditors are aware of the Appendix to the Notice of AGM.
Special are deemed to be significant in terms of their that information.
Resolution No 17 to adopt the New Articles will potential impact on the business of the Group Charitable and political donations be proposed at the AGM.
Donations to charitable organisations in the Takeovers Directive There are no significant agreements between UK amounted to 568,000 2008: 704,000 Pursuant to s. 992 of the Act, which the Company and its Directors or employees of which 472,000 2008: 439,000 was implemented the EU Takeovers Directive, providing for compensation for loss of office donated to Save the Children, the Companys the Company is required to disclose certain or employment that occurs because of a nominated global charity.
No political donations additional information.
The following gives takeover bid.
those disclosures which are not covered Auditors AGM elsewhere in this Annual Report.
The auditors,  LLP, have The Notice convening the third AGM of the The Companys existing Articles of Association indicated their willingness to continue in office Company to be held on Thursday, 6 May 2010 the Articles give the Board power to appoint and a resolution that they be reappointed will at 11.15 am at The London Heathrow Marriott Directors, but also require Directors to submit be proposed at the AGM.
Hotel, Bath Road, Hayes, Middlesex UB3 5AN themselves for election at the first Annual is contained in a separate document for shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings As at 6 March 2010, the Company had received the following notices of substantial interests 3% or more in the total voting rights of the Company: No of % of total ordinary Nature of voting rights shares holding JAB Holdings B. V. 15.42 111,105,415 Indirect Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 3.95 28,452,325 Indirect Massachusetts Financial Services Company and or its subsidiaries 4.11 29,593,546 Indirect By order of the Board Elizabeth Richardson Company Secretary Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 103-105 Bath Road Slough, Berks SL1 3UH Company registration number: 6270876 15 March 2010 Reckitt Benckiser 2009 17 Report of the Directors continued Table 1 Interests in the share capital of the Company The Directors in office at the end of the year had the following beneficial interests unless stated otherwise in the ordinary shares of the Company: 6 March 2010 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Adrian Bellamy 18,780 18,780 17,385 Bart Becht 3,110,422 3,610,422 1,774,669 Bart Becht non-beneficial 1,843,821 1,343,821 1,263,821 Richard Cousins 84 84 Colin Day 424,682 424,129 364,624 Peter Harf 742,770 742,770 742,341 Kenneth Hydon 4,731 4,731 4,433 Graham Mackay 1,550 1,550 1,252 Andr Lacroix 1,488 1,488 88 Judith Sprieser 2,957 2,957 2,654 Warren Tucker appointed 24 February 2010 290 n a n a Notes 1 No person who was a Director or a member of a Directors family on 31 December 2009 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Table 2 Attendance at meetings In 2009, there were five regular Board meetings.
There were three Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings including two dealt with by written resolution and two Nomination Committee meetings.
Written resolutions are required to be signed by all Directors on the Board or Members on the Committee.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of Committees on which they sit is given in the table below.
Number of meetings attended Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 5 5 2 Bart Becht 5 2 Richard Cousins a 1 2 Colin Day 5 Peter Harf 5 2 Kenneth Hydon 5 3 2 Andr Lacroix 5 3 Graham Mackay 4 5 Judith Sprieser 5 5 2 David Tyler b 4 2 Notes a Richard Cousins attended the one Board and two Remuneration Committee meetings held in 2009 following his appointment on 1 October 2009. b David Tyler attended all Board and Audit Committee meetings held prior to his resignation on 30 September 2009.
