Board of Directors and Executive Committee THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andr Lacroix 50, French warehousing and logistics.
Also responsible Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in for management of Squeeze and X-trim gross Bart Becht 53, Dutch # October 2008.
He is Group Chief Executive margin enhancement programmes.
Amedeo Joined the Board in 1999 on his appointment of Inchcape plc and Chairman of Good previously worked for Pirelli Tyres in multiple as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He was previously Chairman Supply assignments.
He was appointed Chief Executive of and Chief Executive Officer of Euro Disney, and Benckiser Detergents, subsequently Benckiser Rob fide Groot 43, Dutch has also held positions at Burger King Diageo, N. V. in 1995 and Chairman of Benckisers Executive Vice President, North America & Colgate, PepsiCo and Ernst & Young LLP.
After international no external directorships.
Judith Sprieser 56, American # roles in marketing and sales became General Was appointed a Non-Executive Director Manager The Netherlands, then SVP, Regional Adrian Bellamy 68, British # in August 2003 and has been Chair of the Director, Eastern Europe and appointed Global Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Remuneration Committee since June 2004.
Category Officer, Surface and Dish in 2005.
Company in 1999 and became Non-Executive She was previously Chief Executive Officer Appointed EVP North America & Australia Chairman in May 2003.
He is a Director of The of Transora, Inc. an e-commerce software in 2008.
Gap Inc and Williams-Sonoma, Inc.
He was and service company and Executive Vice an Executive Chairman and a director of The Gareth Hill 43, South African President formerly Chief Financial Officer Body Shop International plc until March 2008 Senior Vice President, Information of Sara Lee Corporation.
She is a Director of and was formerly chairman and a director of Services.
Previously Allstate Insurance Company, USG Corporation, Gucci Group NV and a director of The Robert Information Systems Director at Arcadia Group InterContinental Exchange, Inc. Royal Ahold NV Mondavi Corporation.
Prior to Arcadia, Gareth was at IBM UK Ltd, and Adecco SA.
Rex Trueform Clothing Ltd in South Africa Richard Cousins 50, British Warren Tucker 47, British and Arthur Andersen.
He is a qualified Was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in chartered accountant.
He has been Chief Financial Executive Officer of Compass Group PLC, the Rakesh Kapoor 51, Indian Officer of Cobham plc since he joined in 2003. worlds largest catering company.
He was until Executive Vice President, Category He is a chartered accountant and previously 2006 Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, having Development.
Joined in 1987 serving in held senior finance positions at Cable and held a number of positions with that company various regional and central marketing roles.
In Wireless plc and British Airways plc.
He is a former non-executive 2001 became SVP, Regional Director, Northern director of P&O plc and HBOS plc.
Europe and was appointed EVP Category Development in 2006.
Rakesh is responsible Colin Day 54, British EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE for global category management, R&D, media, Joined Reckitt Benckiser in September 2000 Bart Becht 53, Dutch market research and strategic alliances.
from Aegis Group plc where he was Group Chief Executive Officer.
Joined in 1988 Finance Director from 1995.
He was formerly Simon Nash 48, British and was General Manager in Canada, UK, a Non-Executive Director of Vero plc, the Bell Senior Vice President, Human Resources.
France and Italy before becoming Chief Group plc, easyJet plc and Imperial Tobacco plc.
Simon Nash joined RB in July 2009 from Executive of Benckiser Detergents, then He is a Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc Novartis Consumer Health, where he was Benckiser N. V. Appointed Chief Executive and Cadbury plc.
Global Head of Human Resources, based in Officer of Reckitt Benckiser in 1999.
He was with Novartis for nearly Dr Peter Harf 63, German # Chairman of the Executive Committee.
ten years and initially led organisation and Joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Freddy Caspers 48, German leadership development for the group before 1999 and is the Deputy Chairman.
He served Executive Vice President, Developing taking on the HR leadership role for the as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Markets.
Joined in September 1997 as EVP consumer health division.
Simon started his until June 2004.
He is Chairman of Coty Inc. for Eastern Europe.
Previously in PepsiCo and international career with P&G in Detergent and Anheuser Busch Inbev and was until May Johnson & Johnson in various roles in Europe, Manufacturing, before moving into HR with 2007 a Director of the Brunswick Corporation.
US, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
Freddy is Mars Confectionery in Slough.
He moved He is Chief Executive Officer of Joh.
A. responsible for Asia Pacific, Latin America and to New York in 1993 with Kraft Foods Benckiser SE.
International and then on to Chicago as Kenneth Hydon 65, British # HR Head of the office products subsidiary Colin Day 54, British Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in of Fortune Brands Inc. Chief Financial Officer.
Joined in September December 2003 and Chairman of the Audit 2000 from Aegis Group plc where he was Committee in November 2006.
He is a Fellow Group Finance Director.
Previously with of the Chartered Institute of Management Member of the Audit Committee Kodak, British Gas, fide La Rue Group plc and Accountants, the Association of Chartered Member of the Remuneration Committee ABB Group.
Colin is responsible for financial Certified Accountants and the Association # Member of the Nomination Committee controls and reporting, treasury, tax, corporate of Corporate Treasurers.
He was the Senior development, legal affairs and internal audit.
Independent Non-Executive Director between February 2005 and November 2006.
He retired Amedeo Fasano 48, Italian as Financial Director of Vodafone Group plc Executive Vice President, Supply.
in July 2005 and is currently a Non-Executive Amedeo Fasano joined the Company in 1997 Director of Tesco plc, Pearson plc and the as Supply Director Italy.
After the merger Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust.
with Reckitt & Colman he was appointed Manufacturing Director for Central, South Graham Mackay 60, British South African Western and Southern Europe Regions.
In Was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2002 he became Regional Supply Director February 2005 and the Senior Non-Executive North America and in 2003 SVP Supply NA Director in November 2006.
He is the current and ANZ Australia and New Zealand.
In 2007 Chief Executive of SABMiller plc.
He joined the Amedeo took over the role as SVP Supply, then South African Breweries Limited in 1978 Developing Markets.
In March 2009 Amedeo and has held a number of senior positions was appointed as EVP Supply.
Amedeo has within that group.
He joined the Board of responsibility for the global supply chain Philip Morris International Inc in October 2008. including procurement, manufacturing, Reckitt Benckiser 2009 11
