1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate Governance statement Summary of compliance with the Code during the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Remuneration Combined Comment Page Relations with Shareholders Combined Comment Page Code Provision Code Provision The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered what compensation commitments including B.
1.5 Compliant 46 The Chairman Alan Bowkett ensured that the views of major shareholders were communicated D. 1.1 Compliant 34 pension contributions and all other elements the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the & 47 to the Board as a whole during the year.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to meet event of termination and this is explained in the Directors Remuneration report.
During the year to June 2009, the Senior Independent Director attended a number of meetings with shareholders as the Code requires.
Notice or contract periods for all Executive Directors are set at 12 months with the exception of B.
1.6 Compliant 46 Steve Morgan who has a six month notice period.
& 47 The Corporate Governance statement sets out the steps taken by the Board to ensure that D. 1.2 Compliant 33 Directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
& 34 The Remuneration Committee during the year comprised all the independent Non-Executive B.
2.1 Compliant 34 Directors excluding the Chairman Alan Bowkett.
A description of the role of the Remuneration & 44 Committee and the authority delegated to it by the Board is included in the Directors Remuneration Constructive use of the AGM report.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are published on the Groups website.
The Directors Remuneration report includes a statement that the remuneration consultants appointed B.
2.1 Compliant 44 It is the policy of the Company to ensure that for each resolution, after a vote has been taken unless D. 2.1 Compliant by the Remuneration Committee only other connection with the Company is the provision of tax advice.
a poll is taken, to give at the meeting and then make available on its website, details of the number of i shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been made: ii votes for and against the The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration Committee for setting remuneration for B.
2.2 Compliant 44 resolution: iii shares regarding which votes were withheld.
all Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Chairman.
The Committee also recommends & 45 and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management which is defined for this It is the policy of the Company to ensure all valid proxy appointments received are properly recorded D. 2.1 Compliant purpose as being those with a position of Managing Director or equivalent within the Group.
The Board delegates the responsibility for determining the Non-Executive Directors fees B.
2.3 Compliant It is the policy of the Company to propose a separate resolution at its AGM on each substantially D. 2.2 Compliant 35,90 to the Executive Directors.
separate issue and there will be a resolution to receive the Annual Report & Accounts for 2009.
& 91 Shareholders are invited specifically to approve all new long term incentive schemes and B.
2.4 Compliant 45 The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer D. 2.3 Compliant 35 significant changes to existing schemes via approval of relevant resolutions at the AGM.
The Notice of Meeting of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of D. 2.4 Compliant 35 the meeting.
Accountability and Audit The Directors explain their responsibility for preparing the Accounts and there is a statement by the C. 1.1 Compliant 56 auditors on their reporting responsibilities.
& 57 The Directors report that the Group and the Company are a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 52 The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in 2009.
C. 2.1 Compliant 40 The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and & 41 risk management systems.
The Audit Committee during the year comprised the independent Non-Executive Directors excluding C. 3.1 Compliant 34 the Chairman Alan Bowkett.
It held four full meetings during the year ended 30 June 2009.
The Chairman & 40 of the Audit Committee during the year had recent and relevant financial experience as does Paul Hampden Smith who was appointed Audit Chairman on 19 August 2009.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference which C. 3.2 Compliant 40 are published on the Groups website.
C. 3.3 The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, C. 3.4 Compliant 40 raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
C. 3.5 Compliant 41 The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, C. 3.6 Compliant reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
A statement on how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded is included in the Audit C. 3.7 Compliant 40 Committee report.
38 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 39
