1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Group Procurement Subcontractors and Suppliers aligned with our own, has consistently yet careful design has assured retention of The importance of working closely with suppliers and Operating in partnership with our scored highly within the annual the historic character of the original Grade II subcontractors and suppliers has become NextGeneration Climate Change listed buildings.
even more critical over the past 12 months Benchmarking assessments, assisting us to maintaining a strong supply chain are principles that A further example of a redevelopment and we have endeavoured to assist our an overall positioning of seventh out of the scheme involving the sympathetic partners wherever possible by maintaining top 20 UK homebuilders in the 2008 have long been established within Redrow.
conversion of historically important Grade II constant dialogue and ensuring payment to rankings, an improvement of two places listed buildings to modern homes, is to be terms.
over the previous years performance.
found at Arcon Village at Horwich, near At the same time we have continued to Regeneration and Land Opportunities Bolton.
Redevelopment of this former refine our policies.
For example we have Redrow prides itself on the skill base which bleach works and engineering works has amended our painting and trade it has built up over the years, to enable been undertaken in close liaison with the specifications to take advantage of the delivery of high quality regeneration and local authority, English Heritage and the paint can recycling scheme for plastic and refurbishment projects, aligning our policies Archaeological Unit of Manchester metal containers offered by Dulux.
We have with Government aspirations for brownfield University.
Arcon Village received the 'Best also developed Nominated Merchant development and breathing new life into Residential conversion award' in the 2009 schemes for key components such as communities.
LABC North West Building Excellence shower products and sanitaryware, which Awards.
A string of awards has resulted from our will deliver additional waste savings and it is efforts in the past and 2008 was no Whilst the general industry climate has intended that similar arrangements are Ibstock Bricks Celcon Blocks Redland Roofing exception with our regeneration forced limitations on land purchasing extended to encapsulate other materials.
activity, we have continued to process Our membership of the World Wildlife Fund selected opportunities through for At Weston-super-Mare our Knightstone Forestry Trade Network WWF FTN requires development.
This is exemplified by our Island refurbishment project, undertaken in us to monitor the sourcing of timber proposed development at Thingwall, Broad partnership with North Somerset District products incorporated within our homes and Green, Liverpool, a brownfield site of Council added to an already impressive list to continually strive to reduce timber from approximately 24 hectares, which has of honours by collecting the 2008 unaccredited sources.
In 2008, 95.86% of recently received Outline Planning International Property Award in the Best timber used on our sites was classified Permission to provide a range of around Redevelopment category, the 2008 Daily within the WWF banding Category 3 500 new homes.
This site will be subject to Mail UK Property Award in the Best Licensed Source to Category 5 Credibly a planning requirement to offset 10% of the Redevelopment Multiple Units category Certified, representing an improvement of carbon emissions through renewable and Highly Commended, in the 2008 Daily over 4% compared with our 2007 results.
Telegraph Your New Home Awards for Best Our diligent procurement process, which Conversion Project.
The scheme provides 2 Ideal Standard Sanitaryware and Dulux Paints Hammonds Wardrobes includes checks that our suppliers commercial units set for caf restaurant H R Johnson ceramic tiles sustainability and environmental policies are use, together with new build apartments, Arcon Village, Horwich near Bolton.
Winner of the Best Residential Conversion Award in the 2009 LABC North West Building Excellence Awards.
Moores Furniture Group Smeg Appliances AEG Appliances By working with our supply partners we Reduce whole life costs and deliver a Monitor progress year on year through have looked to share innovation in order competitive supply base key performance monitors to: Reduce risk within the supply chain Approximately 80% of the materials used Identify changes within the in the construction of our homes are Improve quality and service construction process to improve procured under a national supply Clear understanding and better deliverability through a reduction in agreement.
visibility with our partners delivering delivery times Redrow have looked to partner with improved efficiency Source environmentally sustainable leading manufacturers across products products used in the construction of our new homes.
24 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate responsibility review Reducing our Environmental Impact solar thermal installations.
These comparing actual thermal performance of Redrow understands the importance of developments will be joined shortly by building fabric with theoretical values, have addressing climate change and the need for further schemes across the Group, been fed through to regulation and are our industry to improve the energy delivering homes built to the requirements reflected in currently proposed changes to performance and sustainability of our of the CfSH, which are currently coming SAP and Building Regulations.
products and we have continued to meet forward through the planning process.
Redrow is mindful of the carbon emissions this challenge on two fronts during the year.
We assist our customers to get the best out associated with business related travel.
Firstly, through the considered design of our of their sustainable homes and Use of the train is encouraged, wherever homes and our developments and secondly, environments with our Home User Eco possible and for some time our company through our engagement at policy level and Guides, which inform them how to obtain car fleet has been exclusively diesel.
sharing of our practical experience in optimum performance from their homes This year we have tightened our policy and support of the industry as a whole.
and detail useful community information, renegotiated with our suppliers, deleting the specific to their locality, to support a more Peter Grimes from Redrow Homes South We have built upon our previous successes worst performing vehicles, in terms of sustainable lifestyle.
West, selected to attend a course at The in achieving BRE EcoHomes Excellent carbon emissions, and focussing instead on Apprenticeship and Training Centre for ratings on five of our Debut developments For those products which are not more efficient models, including vehicles Carpenters in Southern Germany.
and have now successfully completed constructed to CfSH standards, our list of from the Volkswagen Blue Motion and homes to the Code for Sustainable Homes Green Options offers additional eco friendly Vauxhall Ecoflex ranges which were Robert Sayers, Redrows Health & Safety CfSH, Level 3, which deliver a 25% saving features to our customers, to improve the introduced this year.
Director with Buster the Bear after receiving on carbon emissions over Building sustainability performance of their homes.
a Gold Award from RoSPA for the fourth A number of important consultation Regulation requirements.
Through our active involvement in a number documents have been published by the Our Vision development at Devonport of industry working parties and our links Government during the course of the year in provides a variety of homes constructed to with the Home Builders Federation HBF, connection with energy and water policy, BRE EcoHomes Excellent and CfSH Level NHBC and BRE, we have been able to draw which will widely influence future As well as submitting our own responses Redrow has positively supported the Major we introduced improvements and additional 3 homes.
Six of these were amongst the attention to issues which have become development proposals and we have been independently, we have also contributed to Home Builders drive to ensure properly training which considerably improved our first in the UK to receive final certification evident through our practical experience pleased to have been given the opportunity collective submissions made by the HBF on qualified workforces on building sites scoring and this year, whilst the number of following the exhaustive post construction and breadth of knowledge of the CfSH and to respond.
Included within these are behalf of its members.
through the CITB-Construction Skills customers expressing satisfaction with their assessment.
At our developments at SAP Standard Assessment Procedure and documents dealing with the definition of initiative.
In June 2008, 97% of persons on dealings increased to 89% 78% 2008, Farnborough and Tallsticks, Cheswick, we continue to assist in finding solutions, Zero Carbon, the Draft Flood and Water Bill Redrow sites and 93% of relevant those recommending Redrow as a result of also feature homes built to Code Level 3, beneficial to the industry as a whole.
and the Welsh Assembly Governments Supporting our staff employees had a Construction Skills their experience increased from 83% achieved through improvements to the energy proposal, TAN 22, all of which will Providing support for our staff and enabling Certification Scheme CSCS card.
2008 to 94% and 85% of customers were It is also satisfying to note that the results insulation performance of the building fabric have major impacts on the way we build in them to reach their full potential remains a The latest audit indicates we have satisfied that the Redrow experience obtained from studies undertaken in and a mix of renewable energy technologies the future.
high priority and is recognised as key for our reached 99.4% including relevant Redrow matches up to reputation.
partnership with Leeds Metropolitan including exhaust air heat pumps, future growth.
In spite of the adverse employees and our commitment to University at our Stamford Brook site, combined heat and power systems and business conditions experienced, Redrows improving competence in construction was in-house training centre at Tamworth rewarded in April 2009, when we were Health & Safety Focus maintained momentum by continuing with delighted to receive a Platinum Certificate Health & Safety is treated with the Sustainability is key at our developments at the Assistant Site Manager Training of Commitment from the Construction Skills importance it deserves throughout our Tallsticks, Cheswick right and Farnborough Programme and delivering a number of Certification Scheme for having registered organisation and we strive to ensure Central below where homes were built to training days for apprentices across the in excess of 90% of our workforce under compliance with current legislation and Code Level 3.
Group, encouraging them to learn more the scheme.
Registration requires Health and Safety best practice in all our about Redrow and the challenges faced by qualification appropriate to job role and activities.
obtaining a pass in a health and safety test.
We are extremely proud to have received a One of our apprentices, Peter Grimes from Gold Award from the Royal Society for the Plymouth, joined eight other hand-picked Prevention of Accidents RoSPA for the Meeting Customer Expectations students from City College Plymouth for a fourth year running on 30 June 2009.
Delivering high standards of service to meet two-week stay at The Apprenticeship and and exceed our customers expectations is We are also pleased to report that no Training Centre for Carpenters in Biberach, crucial for our business and we continually Improvement or Prohibition Notices were Southern Germany, after being selected for monitor our performance through our received from the Health & Safety Executive their quality of work and positive feedback external customer survey consultants, who during the year ended 30 June 2009 and from employers.
Funded by the Leonardo analyse comments received on a variety of the total number of accidents reduced by Da Vinci European Exchange Scheme aspects of the entire home buying 75%, with 12 reportable injuries 49 in Education and Cultures, the challenging experience.
This information is employed to 2008 under the requirements of the programme of tasks included constructing identify areas where we can make Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and models of traditional German timber-based improvements to make the process as Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
This homes and building a complex bridge satisfying and straightforward as possible reduction did reflect the much lower levels featured in one of Leonardo Da Vincis for all our customers.
Following reviews of of construction activity on site and our drawings.
our customer service processes last year, 26 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate responsibility review Heath & Safety teams are focussed upon Foundation this year included the Childrens policies and procedures, establishing a Redrow donated 500 to United Services Bowling Club near their development in the safety recommendations of build as we Heart Foundation, where funding was sound basis from which to move forward Barnstaple.
provided for a weekend break for 23 when trading conditions improve.
children with heart conditions and their At the same time, we have understood the families from the Black Country: the importance of maintaining and Redrow in the Community Country Holidays for Inner City Kids strengthening our partnerships with all Redrows engagement with the local CHICKS initiative, providing holidays in those involved in our supply chain and communities has traditionally extended well Cornwall for disadvantaged, inner City have, wherever possible, sought to support beyond the important pre-planning children: and the Brainwave Centre at them.
consultation phase and our ongoing interest Bridgewater, Somerset, which assists in the is well represented by diverse involvement education and development of children One of the biggest issues we face moving in sponsorships, community projects and suffering from brain injuries or genetic forwards is the plethora of Governmental, charitable donations across England, Wales disorders, where funding helped to refurbish energy related, regulatory reviews and and Scotland.
a bungalow used by families staying with policies and their cumulative effect on costs their children at the centre.
It is pleasing Our relationship with many of these to note that recent Government charitable causes is longstanding and Our involvement in these activities and announcements regarding both proposed events such as the Suffolk Youth Games numerous other initiatives across the Building Regulation changes and the Programme, where we have provided Group, confirm Redrows committment to response to the Consultation on the sponsorship for six consecutive years, have the broader communities within which we Definition of Zero Carbon Homes and now become part of the Redrow calendar.
Non-Domestic Buildings, indicates a Similarly, in South Wales, our support for Ty growing awareness of the practical, Hafan, a childrens hospice has continued technological and cost issues posed by for 14 years and funds raised at the Summary these requirements and, potentially, signal Bluebird Community 6s Trophy at Ninian Without doubt, the extreme economic a repositioning from earlier, more inflexible Park this year, held as part of Cardiff Citys conditions experienced in 2008 have Improvement of our policies and procedures policy decisions.
Cardiff FC in the Community Week, presented our industry with significant is a continuous, evolving process and we contributed towards a grand total of challenges.
The impact on developers, We believe that the contribution Redrow appreciate there is still much work to do.
137,000 raised to date, for this most suppliers, contractors and consultants has has made and continues to make, to the We have sustained momentum through this worthy cause.
been severe, and, most regrettably, have dialogue regarding these policies with the difficult period for Redrow and the industry caused the loss from the industry of many Government and its agencies, based on our and we are satisfied that we retain the In 2006, Redrow launched the Redrow experienced and talented people.
broad understanding and accrued expertise and the firm policy base to Foundation, an independent trust aimed at experience, has been important in achieving support the growth of the business in the providing assistance for children in need, Throughout this period, we have maintained this understanding, which will ultimately future.
the elderly, sick and infirm.
The Redrow focus on our social and environmental benefit the industry as a whole.
Foundation continues to be active and responsibilities and have retained key staff, beneficiaries receiving pledges from the enabling continued progression of our Children enjoying a weekend break in Cornwall which was funded by the Redrow Foundation through the CHICKS initiative.
Charity football match held at Ninian Park in support of Ty Hafan Childrens Hospice.
28 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Board of Directors and Senior management Steve Morgan, 56 John Tutte, 53 Paul Hampden Smith, 48 Chairman 1 Chairman - Eastern Region 3 Non-Executive Director 6 Our hands-on senior management Steve Morgan founded Redrow in 1974.
John Tutte joined the Board of Redrow in Appointed to the Redrow Board in August Under his direction the business evolved July 2002.
He qualified in civil engineering 2009.
Paul Hampden Smith is a Fellow of team is focused on driving Redrow from a small civil engineering contractor to and has amassed more than 30 years the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He become one of the UKs leading home experience within the industry, having has been Group Finance Director of Travis builders.
He led the flotation of the previously held the position as Chief Perkins plc since 1996 and was previously forward based upon its historic Company in 1994 and eventually stepped Executive of Wilson Connolly plc.
On Chairman of the Audit Committee at DX down as Chairman in November 2000.
He 14 September 2009 John was appointed Services plc and Polestar UK Limited.
returned to the helm in March 2009 and Group Managing Director.
Chairman of the Audit Committee strength in family housing.
was appointed Chairman on 30 June 2009.
A A, B, C, E Steve is also Chairman of the Bridgemere Group of Companies, which includes Harrow David Arnold, 43 Graham Cope, 45 Estates plc, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Group Finance Director 4 Company Secretary 7 Carden Leisure.
He was awarded an OBE in 1992 for services to the construction A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Graham Cope joined Redrow as Head of industry.
Management Accountants and the Legal in November 2002 and was A Association of Corporate Treasurers, David appointed Company Secretary two months Arnold was appointed to the Board as later.
He has 20 years experience in the Group Finance Director in September housebuilding sector, either working Alan Jackson, 65 2003.
He joined Redrow in 2002 having in-house or for clients in private practice.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman previously held senior finance and treasury He qualified as a Solicitor in 1989 and is a and Senior Independent Director 2 roles with Tarmac Plc and Six Continents member of the Law Society.
Alan Jackson joined the Redrow Board in plc.
He has a wealth of A Colin Lewis, 52 experience in executive and non-executive Resigned from the Board on roles and is currently the Non-Executive 14 September 2009.
Debbie Hewitt, 46 Chairman of The Restaurant Group plc, Non-Executive Director 5 Luminar plc and Charles Wells Limited.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Playtech Debbie Hewitt joined the Redrow Board in plc.
She is a Non-Executive Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Director of Mouchel plc, HR Owen plc, Committee Luminar plc, Moss Bros plc, NCC plc and 1 2 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Domestic and General.
She also sits on the A, B, C, D, E Board of a Government Dept, the Office of Government Commerce.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A, B, C, E 4 5 6 Committee members key A Main Board member B Member of the Remuneration Committee C Member of the Audit Committee D Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee E Member of the Nomination Committee 7 Board and Committee membership as at 9 September 2009.
30 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate Governance statement Governance Framework On 19 August 2009, Denise Jagger, Malcolm King and Bob executive capacity, led the business and was responsible for responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will The Board is committed to complying with corporate governance Bennett resigned as Non-Executive Directors.
managing it within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
guidelines and to maintaining high standards of corporate Board responsibilities and processes governance.
On 19 August 2009, Alan Jackson was appointed Non-Executive From 30 June 2009, when Steve Morgan assumed the position The Board met on 15 occasions during the year and maintains a Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Chairman, acting in an executive capacity, there is no longer a Under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing close dialogue as appropriate between meetings.
Board of the Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company Authority, the Company sets out details below of how it has meetings are held at Head Office and periodically at subsidiary between the running of the Board and the executive applied the principles of good governance set out in Section 1 offices when visits are frequently made to a selection of On 19 August 2009, Debbie Hewitt was appointed Non-Executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business as of the Combined Code published in June 2008 the Code.
developments accompanied by the local management team.
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This is mitigated by the appointment of Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow Alan Jackson on 19 August 2009 as Non-Executive Deputy The Directors have considered the contents and requirements adequate time for review and preparation and include key On 19 August 2009, Paul Hampden Smith was appointed Chairman and Senior Independent Director to strengthen the of the Code and believe that throughout the year ended strategic, operational and financial information.
Attendance by Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board consulted with leading shareholders and 30 June 2009 the Company has been substantially compliant.
individual directors at Board and Committee meetings held obtained their support for this structure which allowed Steve Within this section on corporate governance, the Directors have during the year ended 30 June 2009 is set out in Table 2.
For a brief period following the appointment of Steve Morgan on Morgan to bring his extensive knowledge and experience of the specifically identified those provisions of the Code with which 23 March 2009 as Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate, UK housebuilding industry to Redrow and ensure sufficient the Company does not comply, together with the reasons for The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved acting in an executive capacity and until the resignation of continuity of the Board and its practices to serve the interests of non-compliance.
Neil Fitzsimmons on 30 April 2009, the Board comprised a all shareholders.
Non-Executive Chairman, five Executive Directors and three The Board Details of internal control and risk management processes are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Malcolm King was the Senior Independent Director during the Composition of the Board included in the Audit Committee report on pages 40 to 41. year.
All Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year The Board comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, four The Board now comprises a Chairman, acting in an executive ended 30 June 2009 were considered to be independent save Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Board balance and independence capacity, three further Executive Directors and three independent for the Chairman Alan Bowkett who was independent on Directors for the majority of the financial year ended The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of Non-Executive Directors.
appointment but under the Code was no longer considered 30 June 2009. skills, knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its independent by virtue of his position.
The Executive team provides the Board with an On 23 March 2009, Steve Morgan was appointed Deputy A summary of the composition of the Board and its committees appropriate view of the detail of the business and the benefit of Chairman and Chairman designate, acting in an executive during the year is set out in Table 1.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its their significant collective experience of the UK housebuilding capacity.
Committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the industry.
The Non-Executive directors bring a depth of experience There was a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is a member of the and understanding from outside the Group.
The Board keeps its On 30 April 2009, Neil Fitzsimmons resigned as an Executive Company during the financial year ended 30 June 2009.
The Group Senior Management team and all Directors have access structure and balance under regular review.
Chairman was responsible for leadership of the Board and this to his advice and services.
In certain circumstances, Board responsibility is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed Committees and individual Directors may wish to take Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their On 30 June 2009, Alan Bowkett resigned as Non-Executive by the Board.
The Chief Executive initially and subsequently the independent professional advice in connection with their profiles on page 31.
Chairman and Denise Jagger was appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Chairman designate, acting in an Deputy Chairman on an interim basis.
Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise independent Table 1 - List of Directors holding office during the year ended 30 June 2009 Matters reserved for the Board Non-Executive Directors.
After appointing a leading firm of recruitment consultants to assist with the recruitment of an Number Corporate The matters reserved include: additional Non-Executive Director and interviewing a number of Position of years Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility on board Committee Committee Committee Committee candidates, the Board then decided in November 2008 not to Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: appoint a new Non-Executive Director as further significant Approval of the Annual Report & Accounts, preliminary Executive Directors restructuring of the Group had commenced at that time.
and half-yearly financial statements, interim management Steve Morgan Chairman i - Following the Board changes on 19 August 2009, the Board statements, trading updates and the recommendation of Colin Lewis Regional Chairman 8 4 believes it has the appropriate composition for the current dividends: operating environment and business structure.
John Tutte Regional Chairman 7 Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies David Arnold Group Finance Director 6 or practices: Table 1 on page 32 provides a summary of the Companys Neil Fitzsimmons assessment of the independence of the Directors.
resigned 30 4 09 Chief Executive 11 4 Any changes relating to capital structure: Approval of treasury policies: Appointments and re-elections to the Board Non-Executive Directors The Board has a Nomination Committee whose terms of Alan Bowkett resigned 30 6 09 Chairman ii 2 Chairman Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal reference include making recommendations to the Board on the control and risk management: Denise Jagger resigned 19 8 09 Non-Executive Director 2 4 4 4 4 Chairman appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Malcolm King resigned 19 8 09 Non-Executive Director 5 4 4 Chairman 4 Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant Nomination Committee report can be found on page 42.
Bob Bennett resigned 19 8 09 Non-Executive Director 2 4 Chairman 4 4 land purchases or contracts: Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are Changes to the size, structure and composition of the i Steve Morgan is the founder of Redrow and rejoined the Board on 23 March 2009, after an absence of over 8 years, as subject to re-election at their first general meeting after Board: Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate and became Chairman, acting in an Executive capacity on 30 June 2009.
Subsequently, all Directors submit themselves for Approval of significant policies, including Redrows health re-election at regular intervals of not more than three years.
The not independent on appointment.
& safety policy: and Boards policy on the term of appointment for a Non-Executive ii Alan Bowkett was independent on appointment but in line with the Code was not regarded as independent by virtue of his Director is that it is not normally expected that a Non-Executive Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
Director will serve more than six years.
32 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate Governance statement Table 2 - Attendance record of Directors at meetings during the year ended 30 June 2009 Corporate Governance structure Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Main Board Committee Total number of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2009 15 4 6 4 2 Non-Executive Team Executive Management Team Executive Directors Steve Morgan i 3 3 Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director Chairman Colin Lewis ii 15 15 1 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors Regional Chairmen John Tutte 15 15 Group Finance Director David Arnold 15 15 Company Secretary Neil Fitzsimmons iii 12 12 1 1 Functional Heads of Department covering Human Resources, Information Technology, Non-Executive Directors Commercial, Marketing and Finance Alan Bowkett iv 15 15 4 4 Denise Jagger v 15 15 4 4 6 6 4 4 2 2 Malcolm King v 15 15 4 4 6 6 4 4 Committees Operating businesses Bob Bennett v 13 15 4 4 6 6 4 4 Audit Corporate Responsibility i Reappointed to the Board on 23 March 2009.
Nomination ii Appointed to Corporate Responsibility Committee on 30 April 2009.
Remuneration iii Resigned on 30 April 2009. iv Resigned on 30 June 2009.
Structure as at 19 August 2009 v Resigned on 19 August 2009.
Professional development and performance evaluation Directors remuneration The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose terms of to the Groups Head Office.
All Directors attended the AGM held good training are important requirements across the Group.
The reference include the review of Main Board remuneration policy on 5 November 2008.
The AGM represents an opportunity for all Board receives regular presentations and briefings from those and agreement of the terms of employment and the granting of shareholders attending to table questions formally during the responsible for key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board bonuses, share options or share incentive plans relating to the meeting and informally afterwards to the Companys Directors.
maintains close relationships with local management teams.
Formal notification of the AGM, through the Annual Report and All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme The Directors Remuneration report can be found on pages 44 Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in following their first appointment.
The programme for to 51. advance.
It is Company policy to propose a separate resolution Non-Executive Directors is specifically designed to encompass at the AGM on each substantive issue including the opportunity the full breadth of business and includes visits to operating Relations with Shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration report.
The Group announces its financial results half-yearly and immediately following their publication undertakes formal It is proposed that the Articles of Association of the Company be There were no formal appraisals of Executive Directors during presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are changed to reflect the changes made by the Companies Act the year ended 30 June 2009 due to the timing of the Board available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Group 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations and the changes.
These will be undertaken in September 2009 by the published a trading update in early January 2009 and July 2009 Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In accordance with Chairman and, as appropriate, the Deputy Chairman.
on the financial periods just ended and an Interim Management the current Articles of Association these amendments will be Statement in November 2008 and May 2009. proposed as a Special Resolution.
All independent Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal conducted by the Chairman Alan Bowkett and the annual Following the full year and half-yearly results announcements in Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to financial appraisal of the Non-Executive Chairman was undertaken by the September 2008 and February 2009, the Chief Executive and and corporate information.
Group Finance Director met current or potential significant shareholders.
This embraced visits to London and feedback from The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its own these meetings was independently collated and disseminated to effectiveness.
For the year ended 30 June 2009, this was the Board.
undertaken using a formal questionnaire completed by each Director and the responses were considered collectively by the During the year ended 30 June 2009, the Chairman and the Board.
Senior Independent Director also held meetings with significant shareholders in response to Steve Morgans approach to rejoin the Board of the Company.
34 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 35 1 About Redrow 2 Business review 3 Directors & Board reports 4 Financial information Corporate Governance statement Summary of compliance with the Code during the year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Combined Comment Page Directors Combined Comment Page Code Provision Code Provision The Board met on 15 occasions during the year which is sufficiently regularly to discharge A.
1.1 Compliant 33 The Chairman Alan Bowkett and the other Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year A.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
each had a letter of appointment for specified terms which set out the expected time commitment.
& 47 The Corporate Governance statement includes a statement of how the Board operates and which Letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the 2009 AGM and are available at the issues are delegated to management.
Companys registered office during normal business hours on any business day.
The Code states that the Board should not agree to a full time Executive Director taking on more than A.
4.5 Compliant The 2009 Annual Report & Accounts identifies the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chairman A.
1.2 Compliant 32 one Non-Executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a company.
At Designate, acting in an executive capacity, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent Director and & 34 Redrow, no Executive Director served as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere during the year.
the Chairmen and members of the Audit, Remuneration and the Nomination Committees holding Steve Morgan, who is contracted to provide three days service per week, has other business interests office during the course of the year.
The number of meetings of the Board and the Committees and as outlined on page 31. individual attendance by Directors is provided.
The work of the Nomination Committee and the process used in relation to Board appointments is A.
4.6 Compliant 42 The Chairman Alan Bowkett held regular meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the A.
1.3 Compliant 34 described in the Nomination Committee report.
Executive Directors present during the year.
The Senior Independent Director, having consulted his fellow Non-Executive Directors, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
The process for inducting new Directors to the Board and details of ongoing training is described in A.
5.1 Compliant 34 the Corporate Governance statement.
Where Directors have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which cannot A.
1.4 Compliant be resolved, they ensure that their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek independent professional A.
5.2 Compliant 33 advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Officers liability insurance cover.
1.5 Compliant All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is A.
5.3 Compliant 33 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive were not exercised by the same individual during the A.
2.1 Compliant 32 responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
These roles were occupied by Alan Bowkett as Chairman and Neil Fitzsimmons as Chief & 33 and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Executive until Neil Fitzsimmons stood down as Chief Executive on 23 March 2009.
From that date until 30 June 2009, Alan Bowkett continued in the role of Chairman and Steve Morgan was appointed The Corporate Governance statement contains a description of the performance evaluation of the A.
6.1 Compliant 34 to the Board as Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate, acting in an executive capacity.
Board, its Committees and the individual Directors that was conducted during the year ended 30 June 2009.
The Senior Independent Director, having consulted his fellow Non-Executive Directors, On appointment, Alan Bowkett, the Chairman until 30 June 2009 met the independence criteria set out A.
2.2 Compliant 32 reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
There were no formal appraisals of Executive Directors in A.
On appointment as Chairman on 30 June 2009, Steve Morgan was not independent.
during the year ended 30 June 2009 due to the timing of Board changes.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in accordance with the A.
3.1 Compliant 32 All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment A.
3.1. and a minimum of one third of Directors must retire at each AGM.
The Notice of Meeting for the 33 2009 AGM is contained within the Annual Report & Accounts which contains sufficient biographical & 90 There were, in addition to the Chairman, three independent Non-Executive Directors holding office A.
3.2 Not 32 details to enable shareholders to take an informed decision in relation to those Directors seeking during the year ended 30 June 2009 out of a total of eight Directors at June 09.
Under the Code, at Compliant & 33 election or re-election.
least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee appointed a leading firm of recruitment consultants and interviewed a The Board sets out within the Directors report details of the resolution to elect Directors together A.
7.2 Compliant 53 number of candidates with the intention to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director.
In consultation with an explanation of why it believes an individual should be elected or in respect of a re-election, with the Committee, the Board decided in November 2008 not to appoint a new Non-Executive Director that the individuals performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role.
as further significant restructuring the Group had commenced at that time.
Malcolm King was Senior Independent Director during the year until the appointment post year end of A.
3.3 Compliant 33 Directors Remuneration Alan Jackson as the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director on 19 August 2009.
The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders during the year if they had Performance related elements of the remuneration of Executive Directors form a significant proportion B.
1.1 Compliant 44 concerns which had not been resolved through the normal channels of communication or for which of the total remuneration and are designed to align their interest with those of shareholders and to to 51 such contact is inappropriate.
give the Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The Remuneration Committee followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Code in designing the B.
1.1 Compliant 45 The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman and the three other Non-Executive Directors A.
4.1 Compliant 32, performance related remuneration scheme.
during the year met as necessary and at least once a year.
The Nomination Committees terms of 34 reference are published on the Groups website.
& 42 The Company does not offer executive share options at a discount save as permitted by the Listing B.
The Nomination Committees principal functions are to review the structure, size and composition of A.
4.2 Compliant 42 the Board and the membership of the Board Committees: ensure adequate succession planning is in The Board sets levels of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors which reflect the time commitment B.
1.3 Compliant place and to lead the process for Board appointments including preparing a description of the role and responsibilities of the role.
Non-Executive Directors are not awarded share options.
and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
None of the Executive Directors served as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere during the year.
1.4 Compliant Alan Bowkett, the Chairman undertook to disclose to the Board any changes to his other significant A.
4.3 Compliant Neil Fitzsimmons was co-opted onto the Board of the Home Builders Federation Ltd for part of the commitments as they arose during the year.
No such disclosures were received in the year ended financial year but received no payment in respect of this.
Steve Morgan, who is contracted to provide three 30 June 2009. days service per week, has other business interests as outlined on page 31 for which he is remunerated.
36 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 37
