Chief Financial Officers report continued Pensions and the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with IAS19 agree policies in conformity with parent company guidelines for Employee Benefits.
their respective business and treasury centres.
These policies are summarised below.
Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes involves judgement about uncertain events, including the life expectancy of the members, Liquidity salary and pension increases, inflation, the return on scheme assets Reed Elsevier maintains a range of borrowing facilities and debt and the rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
programmes from a variety of sources to fund its requirements Estimates for these factors are used in determining the pension at short notice and at competitive rates.
The significance of cost and liabilities reported in the financial statements.
These best Reed Elsevier Group plcs US operations means that the majority of estimates of future developments are made in conjunction with debt is denominated in US dollars.
A mixture of short term and long independent actuaries.
Each scheme is subject to a periodic review term debt is utilised and Reed Elsevier maintains a maturity profile by independent actuaries.
Policy requires that no more than $1.5 billion of term debt issues should mature in any 12-month period.
In addition, For defined contribution schemes, the net cost represents minimum levels of borrowings with maturities over three and five years contributions payable.
are specified, depending on the level of net debt.
Taxation From time to time, Reed Elsevier may repurchase outstanding debt The Reed Elsevier combined businesses seek to organise their affairs in the open market depending on market conditions and, during 2009, in a tax efficient manner, taking account of the jurisdictions in which $44m of US term debt maturing in 2097 was bought back they operate.
A number of acquisitions and disposals have been opportunistically following reverse enquiry by investors.
made in recent years giving rise to complex tax issues requiring management to use its judgement to make various tax determinations.
After taking account of committed bank facilities and available cash Although Reed Elsevier is confident that tax returns have been resources at 31 December 2009, no borrowings mature in the next appropriately compiled, the application and interpretation of tax two years, 19% of borrowings mature in the third year, 35% in the legislation is subject to uncertainty and there are risks that further fourth and fifth years, 36% in the sixth to tenth years, and 10% tax may be payable on certain transactions or that the deductibility beyond the tenth year.
of certain expenditure for tax purposes may be disallowed.
Reed Elseviers policy is to make provision for tax uncertainties where it Interest rate exposure management is considered probable that tax payments may arise.
Reed Elseviers interest rate exposure management policy is aimed at reducing the exposure of the combined businesses to changes Reed Elseviers policy in respect of deferred taxation is to provide in in interest rates.
The proportion of interest expense that is fixed on full for all taxable temporary differences using the balance sheet liability net debt is determined by reference to the level of net interest cover.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that Reed Elsevier uses fixed rate term debt, interest rate swaps, forward they are considered recoverable based on forecasts of available rate agreements and interest rate options to manage the exposure.
taxable profits against which they can be utilised over the near term.
Interest rate derivatives are used only to hedge an underlying risk and no net market positions are held.
Treasury policies The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have After taking into account interest rate and currency derivatives, at requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV 31 December 2009 interest expense was fixed on an average of have due regard to the best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and 3.4 billion of forecast debt for the next 12 months.
This fixed rate Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation of treasury policies.
debt reduces to 2.2 billion by the end of 2012 and reduces further Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed Elsevier thereafter with all but 0.4 billion of fixed rate term debt not swapped businesses and to hedge transactions.
Reed Elseviers businesses to floating rate having matured by the end of 2019. do not enter into speculative transactions.
The main treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The boards of the parent companies agree overall policy guidelines for managing each of these risks Currency profile revenue Currency profile adjusted profit before tax US dollar 52% US dollar 42% Euro 25% Euro 33% Sterling 14% Sterling 17% Other 9% Other 8% 42 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information At 31 December 2009, fixed rate term debt not swapped to floating Capital management rate amounted to 2.7 billion 2008: 1.9 billion and had a weighted The capital structure is managed to support Reed Elseviers objective average life remaining of 6.9 years 2008: 9.1 years and a weighted of maximising long-term shareholder value through ready access average interest rate of 6.4% 2008: 5.4%.
Interest rate derivatives to debt and capital markets, cost effective borrowing and flexibility in place at 31 December 2009, which fix the interest cost on to fund business and acquisition opportunities whilst maintaining an additional 0.8 billion 2008: 1.1 billion of variable rate debt, appropriate leverage to optimise the cost of capital.
have a weighted average maturity of 1.7 years 2008: 1.8 years and a weighted average interest rate of 4.2% 2008: 4.6%.
Over the long term Reed Elsevier targets cash flow conversion the proportion of adjusted operating profits converted into cash and Foreign currency exposure management credit metrics to reflect this aim and that are consistent with a solid Translation exposures arise on the earnings and net assets of investment grade credit rating.
Levels of net debt should not exceed business operations in countries other than those of each parent those consistent with such a rating other than for relatively short company.
These exposures are hedged, to a significant extent, periods of time, for instance following an acquisition.
The principal by a policy of denominating borrowings in currencies where significant metrics utilised are free cash flow after interest, tax and dividends translation exposures exist, most notably US dollars.
to net debt, net debt to ebitda earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and ebitda to net interest.
Cash flow Currency exposures on transactions denominated in a foreign conversion of 90% or higher and a net debt to adjusted ebitda target, currency are required to be hedged using forward contracts.
In over the long term, in the range of 2x to 3x are consistent with the addition, recurring transactions and future investment exposures rating target.
The cash flow conversion in 2009 was 99% and at may be hedged, in advance of becoming contractual.
The precise 31 December 2009 net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 2.9x on a policy differs according to the specific circumstances of the individual pensions and lease adjusted basis.
Highly predictable future cash flows may be covered for transactions expected to occur during the next 12 months Reed Elseviers use of cash over the longer term reflects these 50 months for Elsevier science and medical subscription businesses objectives through a progressive dividend policy, selective acquisitions within limits defined according to the period before the transaction and, from time to time when conditions suggest, share repurchases is expected to become contractual.
Cover takes the form of foreign whilst retaining the balance sheet strength to maintain access to exchange forward contracts.
the most cost effective sources of borrowing and to support Reed Elseviers strategic ambition in evolving publishing and information As at 31 December 2009, the amount of outstanding foreign exchange markets.
Reed Elseviers balance sheet was strengthened by the cover against future transactions was 1.0 billion 2008: 1.2 billion.
equity placing in July 2009 and over the next 12 months the focus will continue to be on the repayment of debt out of cash flow to bring Credit risk Reed Elseviers credit metrics further within the target range.
Reed Elsevier has a credit exposure for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents held with individual counterparties.
The balance of long term debt, short term debt and committed bank In addition, it has a credit risk from the potential non performance by facilities is managed to provide security of funding, taking into account counterparties to financial instruments: this credit risk normally being the cash generation of the business and the uncertain size and timing restricted to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the full principal of acquisition spend.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the credit quality of counterparties, principally licensed commercial banks There were no changes to Reed Elseviers long term approach to and investment banks with strong long term credit ratings, and the capital management during the year.
amounts outstanding with each of them.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV Reed Elsevier has treasury policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do not Structure allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the Dutch parent company of the Elsevier rated lower than single A.
At 31 December 2009, cash and cash Reed Finance BV group ERF, is directly owned by Reed Elsevier equivalents totalled 734m, of which 96% was held with banks PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
ERF provides treasury, finance, intellectual rated A or better by Standard and Poors, Moodys or Fitch.
property and reinsurance services to the Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses through its subsidiaries in Switzerland: Elsevier Finance SA EFSA, Elsevier Properties SA EPSA and Elsevier Risks SA ERSA.
These three Swiss companies are organised under one Swiss holding company, which is in turn owned by Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 43 Chief Financial Officers report continued Activities Liabilities and assets EFSA is the principal treasury centre for the Reed Elsevier combined At 31 December 2009, 92% 2008: 91% of ERFs gross assets were businesses.
It is responsible for all aspects of treasury advice held in US dollars and 7% 2008: 8% in euros, including $10.0 billion and support for Reed Elsevier Group plcs businesses operating 2008: $10.6 billion and 0.6 billion 2008: 0.6 billion in loans to in Continental Europe, Latin America, the Pacific Rim, India, China Reed Elsevier Group plc subsidiaries.
Loans made to Reed Elsevier and certain other territories, and undertakes foreign exchange and Group plc businesses are funded from equity, long term debt of derivatives dealing services for the whole of Reed Elsevier.
EFSA $2.2 billion and short term debt of $0.7 billion backed by committed also arranges or directly provides Reed Elsevier Group plc businesses bank facilities.
Sources of long term debt include Swiss domestic with financing for acquisitions, product development and other public bonds, bilateral term loans, private placements and syndicated general requirements and manages cash pools, investments and bank facilities.
Short term debt is primarily derived from euro and debt programmes on their behalf.
EPSA actively manages intellectual property assets including trademarks such as The Lancet and databases such as Reaxys.
In 2009 it continued to acquire further assets such as the rights to PharmaPendium and the Patent Chemistry database.
EPSA professionals constitute a centre of excellence in the management Mark Armour and development of intellectual property assets.
Chief Financial Officer ERSA is responsible for reinsurance activities for Reed Elsevier.
Major developments In 2009, EFSA issued 650m of term debt and the proceeds were used to refinance ChoicePoint acquisition facility loans.
In addition, EFSA advised Reed Elsevier Investments plc on its 300m Sterling bond issue and renegotiated several term financing agreements.
EFSA negotiated and advised Reed Elsevier Group plc companies on a number of banking and cash management arrangements in Continental Europe and Asia and continued to advise on treasury matters, including interest and foreign currency exposures.
The average balance of cash under management by EFSA in 2009, on behalf of Reed Elsevier Group plc and its parent companies, was approximately $0.4 billion 2008: $0.5 billion.
Full report online The Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 are now available to view online.
com ar09 44 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
