Board Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 50 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Executive Directors 1 Erik Engstrom 46 8 Robert Polet 54 Swedish Chief Executive Officer since November 2009.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Reed Elsevier as Chief Executive Officer of Elsevier in 2004.
Before that spent 26 years at Unilever working in a joining Reed Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Before variety of marketing and senior executive positions throughout the that was president and chief operating officer of Random House Inc world including President of Unilevers Worldwide Ice Cream and and, before its merger with Random House, president and chief Frozen Foods division.
executive officer of Bantam Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served as a non-executive 9 David Reid 63 director of Eniro AB and Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Non-executive chairman of Tesco PLC, having previously been 2 Mark Armour 55 executive deputy chairman until December 2003, and finance director British Chief Financial Officer since 1996.
Prior to joining Reed from 1985 to 1997.
Chairman of Kwik-Fit and previously a nonElsevier as Deputy Chief Financial Officer in 1995, was a partner executive director of fide Vere PLC, Legal and General PLC and in Price Waterhouse.
3 Andrew Prozes 64 10 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 66 Canadian Chief Executive Officer of LexisNexis since 2000.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
NonNon-executive director of Cott Corporation.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier executive chairman of Aviva PLC and a non-executive director of BG was an Executive Vice President with the West Group, part of Thomson Group plc.
Member of the House of Lords since 1999.
Was chairman Reuters and prior to that was Group President of Southam Inc. of KPMG Worldwide until 1999, having joined KPMG in 1966.
Previous directorships include: chairman of Aegis Group plc: deputy chairman of G4S plc: member of the supervisory board of ABN Non-Executive Directors AMRO Holding NV: non-executive director of Young & Cos Brewery plc: and non-executive director of AEA Technology plc.
4 Anthony Habgood 63 British Chairman since June 2009.
11 Ben van der Veer 58 Previous directorships include: Chairman of Bunzl plc and of Dutch Appointed September 2009.
Member of the supervisory Mlnlycke Healthcare Limited: a director of SVG Capital plc: Marks boards of AEGON NV, TomTom NV, Siemens Nederland NV and and Spencer plc: Powergen plc, National Westminster Bank plc: and Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV.
Was chairman of the executive Geest plc.
Served as chief executive of Bunzl plc, chief executive of board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a member of the management Tootal Group plc and a director of The Boston Consulting Group lnc.
committee of the KPMG International board until his retirement in 2008.
5 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 65 Dutch Appointed 2000.
Member of the supervisory boards of 12 Marike van Lier Lels 50 Koninklijke Douwe Egberts a subsidiary of Sara Lee Corporation, Dutch Appointed January 2010.
Member of the supervisory boards Imtech NV and Allianz Nederland Group NV.
Member of the supervisory of KPN NV, USG People NV, TKH Group NV and Maersk BV.
A board of the National Registry of non-executive directors and member of the Audit Committee of the Algemene Rekenkamer and leadership adviser to business, government and educational bodies.
of various Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Previously executive vice president and chief operating officer of the Schiphol Group, a 6 Mark Elliott 60 member of the executive board of Deutsche Post Euro Express, and American Appointed 2003.
Chairman of the Remuneration held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc of which he Board Committee Membership will be appointed Chairman from 1 March 2010 and G4S plc.
Serves Audit Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on the Deans Advisory Council and the Technology Advisory Council Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV at Indiana University.
Until his retirement in 2008, was General Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Manager IBM Global Solutions, having held a number of positions with IBM, including Managing Director of IBM Europe, Middle East All of the executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Served on the board of IBAX, a hospital software company jointly owned by IBM and Baxter Healthcare.
Mrs Dien fide Boer-Kruyt, who will retire at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, and Mrs Marike van Lier Lels are members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other non-executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and 7 Lisa Hook 51 Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
President and Chief Operating Officer of NeuStar Inc. A director of The Ocean Foundation.
Was President and Chief Executive Officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that was President of AOL Broadband, Premium and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously was Chief Operating Officer of Time Warner Telecommunications.
Has served as Senior Advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a Senior Counsel to Viacom Cable.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 51
