Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier PLC Directors report The directors present their report, together with the financial In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures statements of the group and company, for the year ended are presented as additional performance measures used by 31 December 2009. management.
These exclude the tax credit equalisation adjustment and, in relation to the results of joint ventures, the companys share As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses of amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and with those of Reed Elsevier NV in 1993, described on page 56, goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV can disposals and other non operating items, related tax effects and be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
movements in deferred taxation assets and liabilities not expected The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements represent the to crystallise in the near term.
combined interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV Consolidated income statement and their respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders 52.9% share of the adjusted together with the parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and profit before tax of the continuing operations of the Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier NV the combined businesses or Reed Elsevier.
combined businesses was 677m, up from 637m in 2008 reflecting This directors report and the financial statements of the group and Reed Elseviers flat adjusted operating profit performance and company should be read in conjunction with the combined financial currency translation benefits, partly offset by a higher net interest statements and other reports set out on pages 4 to 122.
Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier PLC of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses and their performance shareholders share of amortisation and impairment charges, in the year is set out on pages 10 to 46, a summary of the principal exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs and risks facing Reed Elsevier is set out on pages 47 and 48, and a disposals and other non operating items, was 201m 2008: summary report on Corporate Responsibility is set out on pages 52 247m, including the share of the gain on disposal of the educational to 55. assessment business.
Elsevier had a relatively robust year with good subscription renewals from 2008 and growing online sales in Principal activities medical reference, clinical decision support and nursing and health The company is a holding company and its principal investments professional education, partly held back by weak pharma promotion are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc and markets.
LexisNexis had a challenging year with the core law firm 39% shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, which are engaged business flat in the US and marginally lower internationally whilst in publishing and information activities and financing activities the US directory listings business was well behind the prior year.
The remaining shareholdings in these two companies Corporate, government and academic markets were lower.
are held by Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC also has an indirect ChoicePoint made an excellent contribution in its first year, equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed growing its profits strongly and boosting overall revenue and Elsevier NV have retained their separate legal identities and are adjusted operating profits.
Reed Exhibitions had a difficult year publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed with customers cutting back on promotional expenditure and the in London and New York and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are net cycling out of biennial exhibitions.
Reed Business Information listed in Amsterdam and New York.
had a very tough year with advertising markets severely impacted by the economic recession.
Significant restructuring and cost Financial statement presentation actions were taken across Reed Elsevier mitigating the impact The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC include of underlying revenue decline, with adjusted operating margin flat.
the 52.9% economic interest that shareholders have under the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLCs shareholders share of the adjusted profit accounted for on an equity basis.
attributable of the total operations of the combined businesses was 519m, up from 486m in 2008.
After deducting the companys Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid to Reed share of the post tax charge for amortisation and impairment of Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the and acquisition integration costs, disposals and other non operating UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
items and deferred taxes not expected to crystallise in the near Because of the tax credit, Reed Elsevier PLC normally requires term, the reported net profit for the year was 195m, down from proportionately less cash to fund its net dividend than Reed Elsevier 241m in 2008.
The decrease largely reflects the intangible asset and NV does to fund its gross dividend.
An adjustment is therefore goodwill impairment charges in respect of Reed Business Informations required in the consolidated income statement of Reed Elsevier PLC US controlled circulation titles and International businesses.
to share this tax benefit between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the equalisation agreement.
The equalisation adjustment arises on dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and it reduced the consolidated attributable earnings by 12m 2008: 11m, being 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 139 Directors report continued Adjusted earnings per share increased 3% to 45.9p 2008: 44.6p.
Parent company financial statements At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share The individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier were 9% lower.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation PLC are presented on pages 157 and 158, and continue to be as well as amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible prepared under UK generally accepted accounting practice assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition UK GAAP.
Parent company shareholders funds as at related costs, disposals and other non operating items, and tax 31 December 2009 were 2,444m 2008: 2,229m.
adjustments, the basic earnings per share was 17.2p 2008: 22.1p.
Share capital Consolidated statement of financial position The companys issued share capital comprises a single class of The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed Elsevier ordinary shares, all of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
PLC reflects its 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations Reed Elsevier which as at 31 December 2009 was 916m 2008: or special rights.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general 504m.
The 412m increase in net assets reflects the companys meetings of the company.
In a general meeting, subject to any rights share in the attributable profits of Reed Elsevier and the equity and restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every placing in the year partially offset by dividends paid.
member who is present in person shall have one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more members Dividends entitled to vote on the resolution has one vote although a proxy has The board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 15.0p one vote for and one vote against the resolution if: i the proxy has per ordinary share, unchanged compared with the prior year.
been duly appointed by more than one member entitled to vote on This gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 20.4p 2008: the resolution: and ii the proxy has been instructed by one or more 20.3p, up 0.5% on 2008.
The final dividend will be paid on of those members to vote for the resolution and by one or more 21 May 2010 to shareholders on the Register on 30 April 2010. other of those members to vote against it.
Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a vote on a resolution on a Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote total interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 2.3 times.
for every share of which he is the holder.
Proxy appointments and The boards of the company and Reed Elsevier NV have adopted voting instructions must be received by the companys registrars not dividend policies in recent years in respect of their equalised less than 48 hours before a general meeting.
There are no specific dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow dividends restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst maintaining which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of dividend cover being the number of times the annual dividend is Association and prevailing legislation.
The company is not aware of covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least two times any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions over the longer term.
on the transfer of shares or on voting rights attached to the shares.
The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial Shareholders passed a resolution at the 2009 Annual General year was 228m 2008: 1,245m, including the special distribution Meeting permitting the directors to allot shares up to a nominal value described below of 1,041m.
of 8.2m, representing less than 5% of the companys issued share capital.
Since the 2009 Annual General Meeting no shares have been Special distribution and share consolidation issued under this authority.
The shareholder authority also permitted On 18 January 2008 the company paid a special distribution of the directors to allot shares in order to satisfy entitlements under 82.0p per ordinary share from the net proceeds of the disposal of employee share plans, and details of such allotments are noted below.
The distribution of 1,041m was recognised The authority to allot shares will expire at the 2010 Annual General when paid.
On the same day, Reed Elsevier NV paid a 972m Meeting, and a resolution to further extend the authority is to be put equalised special distribution of u1.767 per ordinary share.
to the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The special distribution was accompanied by a consolidation of During the year, 1,152,950 ordinary shares in the company were ordinary share capital on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of issued in order to satisfy entitlements under employee share plans 51 14 116p for every 67 existing ordinary shares of 12.5p, reflecting the as follows: ratio of the special distribution including that paid by Reed Elsevier NV to the combined market capitalisation of Reed Elsevier PLC 4 36,454 under a UK SAYE share option scheme at prices and Reed Elsevier NV excluding the 5.8% indirect equity interest between 377.6p and 504.0p per share.
in Reed Elsevier NV held by Reed Elsevier PLC as at the date of 716,496 under executive share option schemes at prices the announcement of the special distribution.
140 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier PLC Directors report continued In July 2009 the company placed 109.2m ordinary shares at 405p Directors per share for proceeds, net of issue costs, of 435m in connection The following served as directors during the year with the financing of the September 2008 acquisition of ChoicePoint.
A J Habgood Chairman - appointed 1 June 2009 The number of ordinary shares issued represented 9.9% of the E Engstrom Chief Executive Officer issued ordinary share capital prior to the placing.
The proceeds M H Armour Chief Financial Officer of the share placing together with other available resources were Sir Crispin Davis retired 19 March 2009 applied to increase investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and, M W Elliott together with the proceeds of a comparable share placing by Reed J Hommen resigned 21 April 2009 Elsevier NV and investment in Reed Elsevier Group plc, used to L Hook repay the ChoicePoint acquisition facility and other short term debt.
R B Polet A Prozes The issued share capital as at 31 December 2009 is shown in D E Reid senior independent non-executive director note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE I R Smith appointed 1 January 2009, resigned 11 November 2009 Substantial shareholdings B van der Veer appointed 3 September 2009 At 17 February 2010, the company had received notification, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the E Engstrom, who was appointed an executive director in 2004, following interests in the voting rights of the issued share capital succeeded I R Smith as Chief Executive Officer in November 2009. of the company: Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.97% are given on pages 50 and 51.
Legal & General Group plc 3.95% Silchester International Investors Limited 3.03% Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution of the board.
A director appointed by the board holds office only Employee benefit trust until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible The Trustee of the Reed Elsevier Employee Benefit Trust held for election by the shareholders.
Further, at every Annual General 15,350,605 ordinary shares in the company representing 1.2% of Meeting of the company, one third of the directors or if their number the issued ordinary shares as at 31 December 2009.
The trustee is not a multiple of three the number nearest to one third shall retire may vote or abstain from voting any shares it holds in any way it from office and, if they wish, put themselves up for re-election by the sees fit.
Subject to the companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 the directors to retire by rotation shall be, Authority to purchase shares first, those who wish to retire and not be re-appointed to office and, At the 2009 Annual General Meeting a resolution was passed to second, those who have been longest in office since their last permit the company to purchase 113.7 million ordinary shares in the appointment or re-appointment.
The office of director shall be company representing less than 10% of the issued ordinary shares vacated if he or she: i resigns: ii becomes bankrupt or compounds by market purchase.
No shares were purchased by the company with his or her creditors generally: iii is or may be suffering from during the year and, as at 31 December 2009, 34,196,298 shares, a mental illness: iv is prohibited by law from being a director: representing 2.74% of issued ordinary shares, were held in treasury.
or v is removed from office pursuant to the companys Articles The authority to make market purchases will expire at the 2010 of Association.
Subject to the shareholders rights to appoint Annual General Meeting, and a resolution to further extend the individuals to the board in accordance with the companys Articles authority is to be put to the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
of Association, no individual may be appointed to the board unless such appointment is recommended by the Nominations Committee.
Significant agreements change of control The governing agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Having been appointed directors since the last Annual General Reed Elsevier NV states that upon a change of control of Meeting, A J Habgood and B van der Veer will retire at the Reed Elsevier PLC for these purposes, the acquisition by a third forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles party of 50% or more of the issued share capital having voting of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
rights, should there not be a comparable offer from the offeror for E Engstrom, M H Armour and R Polet will retire by rotation Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier NV may serve notice upon Reed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, Elsevier PLC varying certain provisions of the governing agreement, offer themselves for re-election.
The Nominations Committee including the governance and the standstill provisions.
recommends the appointment or re-appointment of the five directors.
The notice period applicable to the service contract There are a number of borrowing agreements including of E Engstrom and M H Armour is 12 months.
A J Habgood, credit facilities that in the event of a change of control of both B van der Veer and R Polet do not have service contracts.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment Details of directors remuneration and their interests in the share grade may, at the option of the lenders, require repayment capital of the company are provided in the Directors Remuneration and or cancellation as appropriate.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 141 Directors report continued Powers of directors In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply companys Articles of Association and to any directions given by them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates special resolution, the business of the company shall be managed that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK by the board which may exercise all the powers of the company.
Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Directors indemnity and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue company has granted directors an indemnity, to the extent permitted in business.
by law, in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The company also purchased and maintained throughout the year In preparing the group financial statements, IAS1 requires that Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present its directors.
information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Related party transactions provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand transactions involving directors or their connected persons are the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions carried out on an arms length basis and are properly recorded.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a Conflict of interest going concern.
The companys Articles of Association permit the board to approve situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
The board has records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys established a formal system whereby the Nominations Committee transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time considers and decides whether to authorise any such conflict the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure or potential conflict, and whether to impose limits or conditions that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. when giving authorisation.
In reaching its decision, the Nominations They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company Committee is required to act in a way it considers would be most and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and likely to promote the success of the company.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Charitable and political donations Directors responsibility statement Through the Reed Elsevier Cares programme, which concentrates The board confirms that to the best of its knowledge: on education for disadvantaged young people, Reed Elsevier t he consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance companies made donations during the year for charitable purposes with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by amounting to 2.5m 2008: 2.1m of which 0.5m 2008: 0.5m the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted was in the United Kingdom.
Further information concerning the by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial Reed Elsevier Cares programme is available from the Reed Elsevier position and profit or loss of the group: and Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
com t he Directors Report includes a fair review of the development .
and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties In the United States, Reed Elsevier companies contributed 46,000 that it faces.
There were no donations made in the European Union for political purposes.
Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that Financial statements and accounting records such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability The directors are responsible for preparing the directors report to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance and regulations.
with Section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Disclosure of information to auditors for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required As part of the process of approving the companys 2009 financial to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance statements, the directors have taken steps pursuant to section with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 to ensure that they are aware the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in auditors are aware of that information.
In that context, so far as the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable the companys auditors are unaware.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
142 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier PLC Directors report continued Corporate governance The company has complied throughout the period under review with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 the UK Code.
Details of how the principles of the UK Code have been applied and the directors statement on internal control are set out in the Structure and Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 61.
Details of the role and responsibilities, membership and activities of the Reed Elsevier Audit Committees, including the companys Audit Committee, are set out in the Report of the Audit Committees on pages 79 and 80.
Going concern The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 2009 financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the directors have had due regard to the combined businesses financial position as at 31 December 2009, the strong free cash flow of the combined businesses, Reed Elseviers ability to access capital markets and the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier.
A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended 31 December 2009 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 38 and 39.
This shows that after taking account of available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up short term borrowings none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall due within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, capital management and management of risks relating to interest rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 42 and 43.
Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses can be found in note 19 of the combined financial statements.
The principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out on pages 47 and 48.
Creditor payment policy Reed Elsevier companies agree terms and conditions for business transactions with suppliers, including the terms of payment.
Reed Elsevier does not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
The average time taken to pay suppliers was between 30 and 45 days 2008: between 30 and 45 days.
Articles of Association A special resolution will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General Meeting of the company to approve a number of amendments to the companys Articles of Association, primarily to reflect the implementation of the Shareholders Rights Directive in August 2009 and the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in October 2009.
Auditors Resolutions for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors of the company and authorising the directors to fix their remuneration will be submitted to the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
By order of the board Registered Office Stephen J Cowden 1-3 Strand Secretary London 17 February 2010 WC2N 5JR Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 143
