rEEd Exhibitions 2009 EvEnts attractEd ovEr six million attEndEEs Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business serving 44 industries worldwide with more than 450 exhibitions, conferences, congresses and meetings in 36 countries.
nships Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 29 Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, with over 450 events in 36 countries Distribution Channels and Competition Reed Exhibitions is the worlds leading events The substantial majority of Reed Exhibitions revenues are from sales business, with over 450 events in 36 countries in the of exhibition space.
These, together with ancillary services, sponsorship Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
fees and paid delegate participation are sold directly or through local The portfolio of exhibitions and conferences serves agents where applicable.
In 2009 Reed Exhibitions brought together over six million event participants from Reed Exhibitions is the market leader in a fragmented industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other international exhibition around the world, generating billions of dollars in organisers include UBM, DMG World Media DMGT, Nielsen Business business for its customers.
Media, Informa IIR and Messe Frankfurt.
Competition also comes from industry trade associations and convention centre and exhibition Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 638m.
Reed Exhibitions is a global business headquartered in London, with principal offices in London, Paris, Norwalk Connecticut, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Tokyo, Sydney and So Paolo.
Reed Exhibitions has 2,500 2009 financial performance employees worldwide.
Reed Exhibitions had a difficult year with customers Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events that are relevant cutting back on promotional expenditure and the net to industry needs, where participants from around the world cycling out of biennial exhibitions.
The revenue decline, come together to do business, network and learn.
Its exhibitions and conferences encompass a wide range of sectors, including: mitigated in part by substantial cost savings, has broadcasting, TV, music & entertainment: building & construction: reduced adjusted operating margins.
electronics & electrical engineering: energy, oil & gas: engineering, manufacturing & processing: gifts: interior design: IT & telecoms: Revenues and adjusted operating profits were down 21% and 28% jewellery: life sciences & pharmaceuticals: marketing: property & respectively at constant currencies, or 22% and 31% before minor real estate: sports & recreation: travel.
Adjusted for biennial show cycling, underlying revenues and adjusted operating profits were 13% and 18% lower Well represented in the developed world, increasingly Reed Exhibitions respectively.
Significant cost savings were made through management is investing in the developing economies of China, Brazil, the United streamlining, operational efficiencies and headcount reductions across Arab Emirates and Russia.
The operating margin, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs, was 17.9%, Market Opportunities down 0.8 percentage points, before goodwill impairment charges Growth in the exhibitions market is correlated to business to business on certain minor shows.
marketing spend, historically driven by levels of corporate profitability, which itself has followed overall growth in GDP, and business Sales of exhibition space and ancillary services were lower across all investment.
Emerging markets and growth industries provide additional major geographies.
There was also a decline in paying delegates at the opportunities.
As some events are held other than annually, growth small number of shows which charge significant fees for participation.
in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Across the regions, annual show revenues were 14% lower in the US, 13% in Japan, and 17% in Europe.
The shows overall have however Strategic Priorities been successful with attendances remaining resilient and strong Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to provide market leading events satisfaction expressed by exhibitors and visitors.
in growth sectors that enable businesses to target and reach new customers quickly and cost effectively and to provide a platform Whilst 2010 will see the benefit of the net cycling in of biennial shows, for industry participants to do business, network and learn.
bookings going into the year remain cautious with exhibitors committing later than usual and revenues from annual shows are expected to In the shorter term the priority is maintaining high quality events whilst be lower.
aggressively managing the cost base during the economic downturn.
For the longer term, Reed Exhibitions priorities are focused on: developing the portfolio through a combination of new launches, strategic partnerships and acquisitions in emerging markets and high growth sectors: and developing websites and online tools to enhance the exhibition experience and add to customer return on investment in event participation.
30 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Major brands The worlds entertainment market Premier global event for the travel market International offshore oil & gas trade show A world leading construction exhibition The North American jewellery industrys premier trade event 707 Worlds platform for sustainable 638 future energy solutions 577 522 471 One of the largest and longest standing SMT trade events in China 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Leading international exhibition for personal care ingredients 183 152 International network of the 139 129 promotional product industry 110 International exhibition of environmental equipment 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 technology and services Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 31 gaining business insights 32 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
