lExisnExis providEs lEgal information and solutions in morE than 100 countriEs worldwidE LexisNexis delivers critical content and innovative tools to enable customers to make more effective decisions quickly, improving productivity and outcomes.
cisions Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 21 evaluating risk 22 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 lExisnExis risk solutions sErvEs ovEr 600 us insurancE companiEs The LexisNexis C. L. U. E. database is the most comprehensive US insurance claims database with over 200 million auto and 40 million property loss records, and is used by over 600 US insurance carriers to assess risk in the underwriting process and to mitigate fraud.
evaluating risk Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 23 LexisNexis provides authoritative content and analytical tools that enable legal and risk customers to make more effective and efficient decisions billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document LexisNexis is a world leading provider of authoritative management services.
LexisNexis assists law firms in their client content and information solutions for the legal and risk development through Martindale-Hubbell at Martindale.
Serving customers in more than 100 countries, showcasing the qualifications and credentials of more than LexisNexis provides resources and services that inform one million lawyers and law firms in the US and internationally, decisions and increase productivity of professionals and the Martindale-Hubbell Connected professional network, in the legal, risk management, corporate, government, the largest online community specifically for legal professionals.
Additionally LexisNexis provides law firms with website development, law enforcement, accounting and academic markets.
search engine optimisation and other web marketing services, including lead generation through Lawyers.
com, business intelligence Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 2,557m.
and customer relationship management tools.
LexisNexis is a global business headquartered in New York with its principal operations in Georgia, Ohio, New Jersey and New York in LexisNexis also provides its legal and information services to the US, and in the UK, France, Canada, South Africa and Asia Pacific.
US government, corporate and academic customers, including news LexisNexis has 15,200 employees worldwide.
and business information and public records.
In addition to research and litigation services, capabilities for these customers include LexisNexis has three market facing businesses: US Legal, serving the specialist products for corporate counsel focused on regulatory US legal, government, corporate and academic markets: LexisNexis compliance, intellectual property management, and management Europe, Middle East and Africa and LexisNexis Asia together of external counsel.
reported as LexisNexis International, serving the legal and business communities elsewhere in the world: and Risk Solutions, serving the Lexis.
com provides customers with access to 20 billion searchable US risk management market, helping businesses and professionals documents from more than 45,000 legal, news and business sources.
to verify identity, assess risk and prevent fraud, and supporting law enforcement and homeland security.
These are supported by shared Outside the United States, LexisNexis International serves legal, services organisations providing platform development and corporate, government and academic markets in Europe, Canada, distribution services and back office functions.
Africa and Asia Pacific with local and international legal, tax, regulatory and business information.
The most significant businesses are in the The US Legal business of LexisNexis is a leading provider of legal UK and France.
LexisNexis UKs extensive portfolio of publications and business information and analysis to law firms, corporations includes Halsburys Laws of England, Simons Taxes and Butterworths and government throughout the US.
Principally delivered through Company Law Service delivered through lexisnexis.
electronic services and innovative workflow tools developed through Its other flagship electronic products include Lexis Legal Intelligence, close collaboration with customers, solutions from LexisNexis help an authoritative resource on legal practice for lawyers, and media US legal and business professionals make better informed decisions monitoring and reputation management tools for the corporate market in the practice of law and in managing their businesses.
such as the NexisDirect research tool and LexisNexis Bridger Insight for effective risk monitoring and compliance.
LexisNexis in France The LexisNexis flagship product for legal research is Lexis.
com, is a provider of information to lawyers, notaries and courts with which provides federal and state statutes and case law, together with JurisClasseur and La Semaine Juridique being the principal analysis and expert commentaries from sources such as Matthew publications delivered through lexisnexis.
Penetration Bender and Michie and the leading citation service Shepards, which of online information services is growing rapidly, now accounting advises on the continuing relevance of case law precedents.
Through for over 50% of LexisNexis International revenues, and workflow its suite of litigation services, LexisNexis additionally provides lawyers tools are being developed and introduced behind this.
with tools for electronic discovery, evidence management, case analysis, court docket tracking, e-filing, expert witness identification and legal document preparation.
LexisNexis US Legal also partners with law schools to provide free services to law school students as part of their training.
In the business of law, LexisNexis provides law firms with practice management solutions, including time and 24 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information LexisNexis Risk Solutions assists customers in managing risk Strategic Priorities through identity verification, risk evaluation, fraud detection and LexisNexis strategic goal is to be the leading provider of productivity prevention, debt collection and employment-related screening.
enhancing information and information-based workflow solutions in its markets.
To achieve this, LexisNexis is focused on: building world The Insurance Solutions group provides data, analytics, software class content: developing next generation product platforms, tools and business information services to property and casualty P&C and infrastructure to deliver best-in-class research outcomes for personal and commercial insurance carriers in the US to improve legal and business professionals with greater speed and efficiency: critical aspects of the insurance carriers business, from customer building client development and practice management tools enabling acquisition and underwriting to policy servicing, claims handling customers to be more successful in their markets: expanding the and performance management.
Information solutions, including the range of risk management products, leveraging the powerful HPCC USs most comprehensive personal loss history database C. L. U. E. technology in delivering better outcomes: international expansion of help insurers assess risks in the underwriting process to ensure that online products and solutions and increasing LexisNexis presence their customers receive appropriate policy pricing.
In October 2009, in emerging markets: and improving organisational efficiency.
LexisNexis launched an insurance exchange directed at improving the efficiency and transparency of the independent agent-based In US Legal focus is on the continuing development of the next distribution system with enhanced access to key market information generation of legal research and practice solutions and a major and analytics.
upgrade in back office infrastructure and customer service and support platforms to provide an integrated and superior customer The Screening Solutions group focuses on employment-related, experience across US legal research, litigation services, practice resident and volunteer screening: and Receivables Management management and client development products.
Progressive product Solutions help more than 100,000 debt recovery professionals introductions over the next few years will combine advanced in the management and collection of consumer and business debt.
technology with enriched content and sophisticated analytics and applications to enable LexisNexis customers to make better legal The Financial Services group helps financial institutions with risk decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations and management, identity verification, business credentialling, and clients.
A further priority is to complete the transformation of the regulatory compliance.
LexisNexis Advanced Government Solutions client development business from a legal directory business into AGS provides identity, authentication and location solutions to help a web marketing services company.
solve cases and locate people, assets and businesses.
In addition, AGS solutions help mitigate risks through identify fraud, waste and In LexisNexis International the focus is on increasing the penetration abuse in government programmes.
LexisNexis Accurint is the flagship of online services and developing further high quality actionable public records product, powered by the High Performance Cluster content and workflow tools.
In Risk Solutions the priority is the further integration of the ChoicePoint businesses acquired in September 2008, continued Market Opportunities development of the insurance product pipeline and in technology Longer term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide and content, and growth in market expansion including internationally.
is driven by an increasing level of legislation, regulation, regulatory complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
Distribution Channels and Competition Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing LexisNexis US Legal and International products are generally sold demand for online information solutions and tools that improve directly to law firms and to corporate, government and academic the productivity of research and business performance.
In risk customers on a paid subscription basis.
Risk Solutions products management markets, growth is driven by systemic growth are predominantly sold on a transactional basis directly to insurance in insurance transactions, healthcare and insurance fraud, carriers, and other corporations and to government.
regulatory compliance requirements surrounding customer enrolment, and security considerations.
Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets are West Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg, and Factiva News Corporation in news and business information.
Major international competitors include Thomson Reuters, Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
Risk Solutions competitors include Verisk in the insurance market and Thomson Reuters and First Data Corporation in public records.
Award winning LexisNexis won 12 awards at the 2009 Law Technology News Awards which recognise the best technology used in the legal profession.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 25 2009 financial performance LexisNexis had a challenging year.
The core law firm Good progress is being made in developing the next generation of legal research products, and the advanced back office infrastructure business was flat in the US and marginally lower to support them, to deliver an integrated and superior customer internationally reflecting the downturn in the legal experience across legal research, workflow tools, practice solutions industry whilst US directory listings were well behind and client development.
Progressive product introductions over the prior year as firms cut back on directory spend.
the next few years will combine advanced technology with enriched Corporate, government and academic markets were content and sophisticated analytics and applications.
LexisNexis goal is to deliver not just better search results, but better outcomes lower.
ChoicePoint made an excellent contribution in for customers.
In addition, sales coverage is being expanded and its first year, growing its profits strongly and boosting more intuitive user interfaces and expanded litigation workflow tools overall revenues and profits.
Adjusted operating are being added to the current offering.
This will result in a higher margins were slightly lower due to the underlying ongoing level of capital expenditure and lower margin through revenue decline largely mitigated by further continuing development spend and will over the longer term drive restructuring and cost actions and the strong growth and operational efficiencies.
Government, corporate and academic markets were 6% lower with customer budgets under pressure and reduced transactional activity, Revenues and adjusted operating profits increased by 14% and 13% impacting in particular the news and business information databases.
respectively at constant currencies including a first full year contribution from the ChoicePoint business acquired in September 2008.
Excluding The LexisNexis International business, i. e. the non US businesses, ChoicePoint and minor acquisitions and disposals, underlying revenues saw revenues decline 3% at constant currencies, or 1% underlying and adjusted operating profits were down 4% and 15% respectively.
before taking account of the sale in the prior year of the Latin American The overall adjusted operating margin was 0.4 percentage points business.
The pressures on the legal services industry internationally lower at 26.0% reflecting the underlying revenue decline and increases mirror those seen in the US, particularly in the UK with the impact in spending on new product development, sales and marketing and mostly on print product sales as customers increasingly rely on the operational support, largely mitigated by the further restructuring online service.
With less penetration of online services in international and cost actions, and the increasing profitability of ChoicePoint.
markets than in the US, online revenues have continued to grow strongly at 9% as firms seek to increase their effectiveness.
This has Cost savings include: the full year benefit of the consolidation in 2008 largely been offset by the decline in print sales.
of the Corporate and Public Markets business with US Legal as well as the consolidation of US operations: continued outsourcing of systems The Risk Solutions business saw revenues almost double at constant engineering and maintenance, software development engineering, currencies including a full year contribution of the ChoicePoint business data fabrication, and other production activities: the further consolidation acquired in September 2008.
Underlying revenues, before ChoicePoint, and streamlining of technology operations and real estate: more effective were 2% lower reflecting the slowdown in transactional activity in the leveraging of global procurement: streamlining of the screening business US economy, largely offset by strong growth in government markets.
in Risk: and consolidation of activities on the integration of ChoicePoint.
The ChoicePoint business saw revenues up 1% on a proforma basis The reported operating margin, after amortisation of acquired with adjusted operating profits up 44%, delivering a first year post tax intangible assets and exceptional restructuring and acquisition return of 6.0% on the $4.1 billion purchase.
Strong revenue growth integration costs, was 13.2%, down 1.8 percentage points, reflecting in the insurance segment, up 10%, was driven by high transactional intangible asset amortisation of the ChoicePoint acquisition and activity in auto and property insurance markets and by increasing sales acquisition integration costs.
of more powerful data and analytics products.
This strong growth in insurance and cost savings from the integration of ChoicePoint and The US Legal business saw revenues decline 6% at constant LexisNexis drive the increased profitability.
The 1% proforma revenue currencies, or 4% before changes in revenue recognition in Martindalegrowth is after a 13% decline in the non-insurance businesses, Hubbell, largely driven by weakness in corporate, government and principally in pre-employment screening, reflecting the economic academic markets and cutbacks by law firms on directory spend.
Significant cost actions in the screening business limited The core law firm business held up well, with revenues flat, despite the the profit impact of this decline.
significant impact of the economic downturn on the legal industry.
This reflects the continuing demand for legal research information services The business trends seen in US legal and international markets are and growth in workflow solutions particularly in litigation services.
expected to continue into 2010 reflecting the continuing pressures on the legal industry and the subscription nature of much of the revenue.
The Martindale-Hubbell lawyer directory listings business saw revenues Good growth momentum is expected in the insurance segment in down 17% on a like for like basis as law firms cut back on directory Risk Solutions and screening markets should stabilise as the US marketing.
In recognition of Martindale-Hubbells transformation into economy recovers.
The overall adjusted operating margin is expected a web marketing services company, all listing revenues in 2009 have to be lower, reflecting the effects of a weak revenue environment and been attributed to the online listings and recognised rateably over increases in spend on product development, infrastructure, and sales the listing period: print directories are no longer provided except as and marketing in the Legal business, partly mitigated by continuing separately ordered by customers.
The change in timing of revenue cost actions and the growing profitability of the ChoicePoint business.
recognition has a one time adverse effect in 2009.
26 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Major brands Unparalleled legal, news and public records content for lexis.
com legal professionals Critical legal analysis, checklists, LexisNexis forms, and practice guides Matthew Bender authored by industry experts covering over 50 major practice areas Leading website for consumers seeking legal information and counsel Largest resource of information LexisNexis about and community for the Martindale-Hubbell legal profession Software allowing litigators to assess and analyse CaseMap case information 2,557 Largest, most authoritative LexisNexis 1,940 online legal resource in France 1,594 Juris Classeur 1,570 1,466 Authoritative products and LexisNexis services enabling UK lawyers 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Legal Intelligence to find legal guidance, information and training Most comprehensive 665 US personal insurance C. L. U. E. claims database 513 406 380 338 Suite of online tools, built on HPCC technology, accessing Accurint billions of public records to identify 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 assets and locate individuals Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 27 forging business relatio 28 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
