advancing science 12 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 ElsEviErs world lEading databasE of journal articlEs is accEssEd by ovEr 11 million s ciEntists Each yEar Elseviers flagship electronic research solution, ScienceDirect, contains 10 million scientific and medical research articles and is accessed by scientists who download over half a billion full text articles each year.
advancing science Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 13 improving medical outcomes 14 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 ElsEviErs world lEading hEalth information is usEd by hEalth profEssionals wo rldwidE Elsevier publishes over 700 medical journals and, in 2009, over 1,700 new books and reference works, together with innovative information solutions, to assist our customers in improving medical outcomes.
improving medical outcomes Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 15 Elsevier provides its customers with scientific and medical information and tools that improve outcomes in science and health Science & Technology also publishes over 900 new book titles Elsevier is the worlds leading provider of scientific annually, as well as secondary material in the form of supporting and medical information and serves scientists, bibliographic data, indexes and abstracts, and tertiary information health professionals and students worldwide.
through review and reference works.
10,000 e-book titles are in Elsevier provides world class information and ScienceDirect, with over 400 e-books added each year.
innovative workflow tools that enable customers to make critical decisions, enhance productivity Science & Technologys other flagship electronic solutions include Scopus and the recently launched Reaxys and SciVal Spotlight and improve outcomes.
Scopus is the largest abstract and citation database of research literature in the world, with the abstracts and bibliographic Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 1,985m.
information of more than 40 million scientific research articles from Elsevier is a global business headquartered in Amsterdam with 17,000 peer reviewed journals and over 5,000 publishers.
Scopus also principal operations in Amsterdam, Beijing, Boston, Chennai, Delhi, has data on more than 23 million patents.
Reaxys is a new solution for London, Madrid, Munich, Oxford, New York, Paris, Philadelphia, synthetic chemists, based on Elseviers prestigious CrossFire Database Rio fide Janeiro, St. Louis, San Diego, Singapore and Tokyo.
Elsevier suite, which integrates chemical reaction and compound data searching has 6,800 employees.
The SciVal suite of research tools enables individual researchers and institutional leadership to determine and Elsevier has two market facing businesses: Science & Technology evaluate their research strategies more effectively.
serving the scientific community and Health Sciences serving the health community, both of which are supported by a global shared Health Sciences is the worlds leading medical publisher.
It serves services organisation which provides integrated editorial systems health professionals, including medical researchers, doctors, nurses, and production services, product platforms and distribution, allied health professionals and students, as well as hospitals, research and other back office functions.
institutions, managed healthcare organisations, pharmaceutical companies and insurers.
Through its medical journals, books, Science & Technology is the worlds leading global scientific major reference works, databases and online information solutions, information provider.
It delivers a wide array of information and workflow Health Sciences provides critical information and analysis on which its tools that generate valuable insights for researchers in the advancement customers rely to base their decisions, to improve medical outcomes of scientific discovery and improve the productivity of research.
and enhance the efficiency of healthcare.
Its customers are scientists and professionals, academic libraries, corporations and governments, who rely on Elsevier: to provide high Health Sciences publishes over 700 journals, including on behalf quality content: to promote, review, publish, disseminate, and preserve of learned societies, and, in 2009, over 1,700 new book titles and research findings: and to create innovative workflow tools to improve clinical reference works both in print and through ScienceDirect and the efficiency of their endeavour.
other electronic platforms such as MDConsult, which is a leading online clinical information service with more than 2,200 institutional Science & Technology publishes over 200,000 new research articles customers and over 12 million page views per month.
Flagship titles each year through some 1,100 journals, many of which are the include market leading medical journals such as The Lancet, and foremost publications in their field and a primary point of reference major medical reference works such as Grays Anatomy, Nelsons for new research.
The vast majority of customers receive these Pediatrics and Netters Atlas of Human Anatomy.
In addition to journals through the flagship electronic research solution ScienceDirect.
its local language publishing in countries across the world, Health It is the worlds largest database of scientific and medical research, Sciences leverages its strong brands and international content with 10 million scientific journal articles, accessed by over 11 million and solutions into new markets through local language versioning.
The business also provides marketing services to the pharmaceutical industry through advertising and sponsored communications to the specialist communities it serves.
16 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Heath Sciences is a leader in medical education and training resources, In Science & Technology, the priorities are to continue to enhance particularly in the nursing and allied health professions.
From core the quality of journal and book content and expand data sets whilst textbooks to virtual clinical patient care, Heath Sciences supports adding greater functionality and utility to ScienceDirect and other students, teaching faculties and healthcare organisations in education database services.
New workflow tools are being introduced to assist and practice.
A strong focus is on the further development of innovative researcher productivity together with new performance and planning electronic resources: the Evolve portal provides a rich resource to tools to improve research efficiency and economic outcomes.
support faculty and students and now has 1.8 million registered users: Health Education Systems Inc provides online review and testing tools In Health Sciences, priorities are similar, particularly with regard to for nursing and allied health staff: the recently launched Pageburst digital medical research.
Additionally, Elsevier is building out clinical decision content delivery platform delivers book content online with powerful support services to meet the demand for tools to help deliver better search, multimedia, and collaboration functions.
medical outcomes and lower costs for payers, physicians and hospitals.
Elsevier is also focused on increasing its penetration A fast growing area of the business is clinical decision support, in emerging markets through expansion of local publishing and providing online information and analytics to deliver patient-specific versioning of content and digital services.
solutions at the point of care to improve patient outcomes.
Gold Standard provides critical information on drug interactions to assist Distribution Channels and Competition effective treatment: CPM Resource Center provides a data driven Elseviers science journals are generally sold to libraries on a paid framework to support nurses in undertaking procedures: Nursing subscription basis.
Medical and healthcare journals are generally Consult provides nursing care guidelines in trauma and disease sold to libraries on a paid subscription basis or sold to individual management: MEDai uses patient data and analytics to help identify practitioners and medical society members.
Electronic products, areas for improvement in clinical practice within hospitals and lower such as ScienceDirect, are generally sold directly to institutional costs for the payers of healthcare through preventative interventions.
libraries, hospitals, corporations and end users through a dedicated sales force that has offices around the world.
Subscription agents Market Opportunities facilitate the administrative process for print journals.
Books are Growth in the scientific information market is driven by increases in sold through traditional and online book stores, wholesalers and, R&D spend reflected in the growing number of researchers worldwide particularly in medical and healthcare markets, directly to end users.
and research output, and the demand for improved research efficiency.
Competition within the science and medical publishing fields is generally on a title by title and product by product basis.
Competing In healthcare, market growth is supported by favourable demographic journals, books and databases are typically published by learned trends, with ageing populations requiring more healthcare and rising societies and other professional publishers.
prosperity in developing economies increasing expectations of better healthcare provision.
The healthcare professions are growing and information intensity is increasing as payers and providers of healthcare look to improve medical outcomes and cost efficiency.
Strategic Priorities Elseviers strategic goal is to make valued contributions to the communities it serves by providing actionable data through information and tools that advance scientific discovery and improve medical outcomes.
To achieve this, Elsevier is focused on: building world class content: developing workflow tools that link, analyse and illuminate content and data to help customers to make and execute critical decisions and improve their productivity: enhancing customer service and engagement to better fulfil the needs of the scientific and health communities: expanding penetration of high growth markets: and improving organisational efficiency.
Influential In 2009 Elsevier was honoured by the US Special Libraries Association as The most influential publisher of the last 100 years in BioMedicine and the Life Sciences.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 17 2009 financial performance Elsevier had a relatively robust year.
The growth in medical research reflects growing online subscriptions to medical content.
In nursing and health professional academic budget environment, the journals business education, strong growth was achieved through the increasing entered 2009 with good subscription renewals from demand for healthcare professionals, new publishing, and the further 2008.
In Health Sciences, growing online sales in development and increasing penetration of online resources.
Doublemedical reference, clinical decision support and digit growth was seen in clinical decision support with growing demand nursing and health professional education were for online workflow solutions that combine content with predictive analytics.
In clinical reference, strong growth in MDConsult and other partly held back by weak pharma promotion markets.
online reference products was offset by lower print book sales.
Adjusted operating margins improved through significant restructuring and cost actions.
Elsevier has continued its long standing commitment to innovation and new product development.
In scientific and medical research, the focus Revenues and adjusted operating profits increased by 4% and 9% is on building out new content and data sets and increasing the respectively at constant currencies, both before and after minor functionality of cross-discipline and discipline-specific research and acquisitions.
Cost growth was limited to 1% through significant discovery tools.
Institutional planning and performance tools are also cost savings, including: the streamlining of business processes being developed to help improve economic outcomes for researchers in shared services: the continued ramp up of journal and book and academic leaders.
Additionally in Health Sciences there is particular production operations in our Chennai facility: the further outsourcing focus on increasing the range and sophistication of our clinical decision of IT development and back office activities, including application support solutions to make healthcare more efficient and to improve management and financial transaction processing: the consolidation medical outcomes.
of activities, including technology operations and real estate: and more effective leveraging of global procurement.
For 2010, good momentum is expected in health sciences from the continued growth in the health professions and the increasing adoption The reported operating margin, after amortisation of acquired of online resources, although pharma promotion and other advertising intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs, was 28.4%, revenues remain weak.
Academic budget pressures are expected to up 2.3 percentage points.
Overall revenue growth is expected to be lower for the year.
Science & Technology saw revenue growth of 5% at constant currencies.
This was driven by good ScienceDirect subscription renewals entering the year.
Online usage of ScienceDirect continued to grow close to 20%.
The Scopus abstract and indexing database saw strong growth in subscriptions and was expanded through the addition of new content in the humanities.
Good growth in e-books and other online transactional sales were offset by lower print book sales reflecting tighter customer budgets and channel destocking.
In Health Sciences, revenues were up 3% at constant currencies.
Strong performances in medical research, nursing and health professional education, and in clinical decision support were in part tempered by continuing weakness in pharma promotion markets.
Pharma promotion and other advertising revenues, which accounted for approximately 20% of Health Sciences revenues, were down 7%, reflecting fewer blockbuster drug launches and a reduction in the marketing budgets of pharmaceutical companies.
Excluding pharma promotion and other advertising, revenues were 5% ahead at constant 18 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Major brands Worlds largest database of scientific and medical research articles Worlds largest scientific abstract and citation database Premier life sciences journal with the highest impact factor in cell biology Leading web-based chemical reaction workflow solutions for industrial chemists Funding intelligence and research performance tools for academic institutions 1,985 One of the worlds leading medical journals since 1823 1,700 1,521 1,507 1,436 Online clinical information service, including reference works, journals and drug information 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Online evidence-based content to inform nursing clinical decisions at the point of care 693 568 Integrated, online resources that 477 465 complement Elseviers nursing 449 textbook content Clinical decision support tool to identify areas for improvement 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 in medical practice Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 19 enabling better legal fide 20 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009
