Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board The Supervisory Board and the Executive Board which jointly In addition to the reported figures, adjusted profit figures are make up the Combined Board present their joint report, together presented as additional performance measures used by with the financial statements of the group and of the company, management.
These exclude, in relation to the results of joint for the year ended 31 December 2009. ventures, the companys share of amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses and acquisition related costs, disposals and other non operating with those of Reed Elsevier PLC in 1993, described on page 56, items, related tax effects and movements in deferred taxation the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can assets and liabilities not expected to crystallise in the near term.
be regarded as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements represent the combined Consolidated income statement interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses Reed Elsevier NVs shareholders 50% share of the adjusted of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their profit before tax of the continuing operations of the Reed Elsevier respective subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with combined businesses was 716m, down from 759m in 2008 the parent companies, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC reflecting Reed Elseviers flat adjusted operating profit performance the combined businesses or Reed Elsevier.
and higher net interest expense.
Reported profit before tax, including the Reed Elsevier NV shareholders share of amortisation and This report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board and impairment charges, exceptional restructuring and acquisition the consolidated and parent company financial statements should related costs and disposals and non operating items, was 217m be read in conjunction with the Reed Elsevier combined financial 2008: 313m, including the share of the gain on disposal of the statements and other reports set out on pages 4 to 137, which are educational assessment business.
Elsevier had a relatively robust incorporated by reference herein.
Summary combined financial year with good subscription renewals from 2008, growing online information in euros is set out on pages 123 to 137.
The combined sales in medical reference, clinical decision support and nursing financial statements on pages 82 to 122 are to be considered as part and health professional education, partly held back by weak pharma of the notes to the statutory financial statements.
The annual report promotion markets.
LexisNexis had a challenging year with the core of Reed Elsevier NV within the meaning of article 2:391 of the Dutch law firm business flat in the US and marginally lower internationally Civil Code consists of pages 162 to 165 and, incorporated by whilst the US directory listings business was well behind the prior reference, pages 4 to 137.
The Corporate Governance Statement year.
Corporate, government and academic markets were lower.
of Reed Elsevier NV dated 17 February 2010 is published on the ChoicePoint made an excellent contribution in its first year, Reed Elsevier website www.
com and is incorporated by growing its profits strongly and boosting overall revenue and reference herein as per the Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften adjusted operating profits.
Reed Exhibitions had a difficult year inhoud jaarverslag January 2010 article 2a under 1 sub b. with customers cutting back on promotional expenditure and the net cycling out of biennial exhibitions.
Reed Business Information Principal activities had a very tough year with advertising markets severely impacted The company is a holding company and its principal investments by the economic recession.
Significant restructuring and cost are its direct 50% shareholding in Reed Elsevier Group plc and actions were taken across Reed Elsevier mitigating the impact its direct 61% shareholding in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, which of underlying revenue decline, with adjusted operating margin flat.
are engaged in publishing and information activities and financing activities respectively.
The remaining shareholdings in these two Reed Elsevier NVs shareholders share of the adjusted profit companies are held by Reed Elsevier PLC.
attributable of the total operations of the combined businesses was 550m, down from 580m in 2008.
After deducting the companys Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC have retained their share of the post tax charge for amortisation and impairment of separate legal identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring Elsevier NVs securities are listed in Amsterdam and New York and and acquisition integration costs, disposals and other non operating Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London and New York.
items and deferred taxes not expected to crystallise in the near term, the reported net profit for the year was 219m, down from 294m Financial statement presentation in 2008.
The decrease largely reflects the intangible asset and The consolidated financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV include goodwill impairment charges in respect of Reed Business Informations the 50% economic interest that its shareholders including Reed US controlled circulation titles and International businesses.
Elsevier PLC, which has an indirect 5.8% interest in the company have under the equalisation arrangements in the Reed Elsevier Adjusted earnings per share decreased 9% to 0.79 2008: 0.87. combined businesses, accounted for on an equity basis.
At constant rates of exchange, the adjusted earnings per share were 9% lower.
Including the effect of the tax credit equalisation Under the terms of the merger agreement, dividends paid to Reed as well as amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders are, other than and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition related costs, in special circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the disposals and other non operating items, and tax adjustments, UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
the basic earnings per share was 0.32 2008: 0.44.
162 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier NV Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board continued Consolidated statement of financial position Share capital The consolidated statement of financial position of Reed Elsevier NV On 30 July 2009, a share placing was announced by Reed Elsevier reflects its 50% economic interest in the net assets of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC representing approximately 9.9% which as at 31 December 2009 was 970m 2008: 491m.
of each companys share capital.
The share placings were fully The 479m increase in net assets reflects the companys share subscribed at a price of 7.08 and 405p per ordinary share in the attributable profits of Reed Elsevier and the equity placing respectively.
Reed Elsevier NV issued 63,030,989 new ordinary in the year partially offset by dividends paid.
shares through the placing and the shares were listed on Euronext Amsterdam as of 4 August 2009.
The total of outstanding ordinary Parent company financial statements shares of Reed Elsevier NV was 723,662,051 after the placing.
In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the Correspondingly Reed Elsevier NV also issued 252,459 new individual parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV R shares and transferred 135,179 existing R shares held in treasury presented on pages 179 to 181 are prepared under UK generally to Reed Holding BV at a price of 73.00 per share.
The equity accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
The profit attributable placing raised 470m including 29m in respect of R shares for to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV was 22m 2008: 1,255m, Reed Elsevier NV and 435m for Reed Elsevier PLC, net of costs.
including dividends received from joint ventures of 1,200m and The excess of net proceeds over the nominal value of shares issued net assets as at 31 December 2009, principally representing the has been included in paid-in surplus.
investments in Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV under the historical cost method and loans to their subsidiaries, During 2009, 32,450 ordinary shares in the company were were 4,065m 2008: 3,823m.
Free reserves as at 31 December issued under convertible debentures at prices between 7.35 2009 were 3,833m 2008: 3,605m, comprising reserves and and 8.86 per share.
paid-in surplus less shares held in treasury.
Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2009 Dividends is shown in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Combined Board is recommending an equalised final dividend of 0.293 per ordinary share, up 1% compared with the prior year.
As at 31 December 2009 32,171,987 of the ordinary shares were This gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.400 2008: 0.404, held in treasury including 8,219,196 held by the Reed Elsevier Group down 1% on 2008.
The final dividend will be paid on 28 May 2010. plc Employee Benefit Trust.
No R shares were held in treasury.
Dividend cover, based on adjusted earnings per share and the As at 17 February 2010, based on the public database of and on total interim and proposed final dividends for the year, is 2.0 times.
notification received from the Netherlands Authority for the Financial The boards of the company and Reed Elsevier PLC have adopted Markets, the company is aware of interests in the capital and voting dividend policies in recent years in respect of their equalised rights of the issued share capital of the company of at least 5% dividends that, subject to currency considerations, grow dividends by Reed Elsevier PLC and Mondrian Investment Partners Limited.
broadly in line with adjusted earnings per share whilst maintaining dividend cover being the number of times the annual dividend is Corporate Governance covered by the adjusted earnings per share of at least two times Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC are subject to various over the longer term.
corporate governance principles and best practice codes, in particular the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code and the The total dividend paid on the ordinary shares in the financial year UK Combined Code the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV may not apply was 260m 2008: 1,569m, including the special distribution fully the verbatim language of these codes, but does fully apply described below of 1,299m.
the principles and best practice provisions other than, in respect of the Dutch Code, the following for reasons explained below: Special distribution and share consolidation On 18 January 2008 the company paid a special distribution of Best practice provision II.
2.5: Executive directors are required 1.767 per ordinary share from the net proceeds of the disposal of to build up a minimum shareholding and Reed Elsevier uses the Education division.
The distribution of 1,299m was recognised long term incentive arrangements in the form of awards of shares when paid.
On the same day, Reed Elsevier PLC paid a 1,391m which may vest after three years.
The intent of this shareholding equalised special distribution of 82.0p per ordinary share.
policy is to align the interests of senior executives and shareholders.
This intent is in compliance with the Dutch Code.
Shares received The special distribution was accompanied by a consolidation on joining Reed Elsevier in compensation for benefits forfeited of ordinary share capital on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares under incentive schemes from a previous employer are not to be of 0.07 for every 67 existing ordinary existing shares of 0.06, considered as part of the minimum shareholding in this context.
reflecting the ratio of the special distribution including that paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to the combined market capitalisation of Reed Elsevier NV excluding the 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV held by Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier PLC as at the date of the announcement of the special distribution.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 163 Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board continued Best practice provision II.
2.8: Reed Elsevier has arrangements Best practice provision IV.
3.1: It is considered impractical and that are commensurate with local and legal requirements to unnecessary to provide access for shareholders to all meetings ensure a competitive employment offer to its board members.
with analysts and all presentations to investors in real time.
Price Executive directors have employment agreements under English sensitive and other information relevant to shareholders is disclosed or New York law that provide for notice periods not exceeding one as required or as appropriate and made available on the website.
There are currently no executive directors with employment agreements under Dutch law.
In the event of dismissal, notice is For further information on the application of the Dutch Code, see the given in accordance with the agreed notice period.
The payment Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV published on during the notice period may be mitigated if the director finds other the Reed Elsevier website, www.
The application of this arrangement may fall within the best practice provision that remuneration in Significant agreements change of control the event of dismissal may not exceed the fixed component of The governing agreement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed one years salary.
There are no other severance arrangements Elsevier PLC states that upon a change of control of Reed Elsevier in place for the executive directors and none of the employment NV for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 50% or agreements contain severance pay arrangements.
Although more of the issued share capital having voting rights, should there the principle that severance pay should not exceed the fixed not be a comparable offer from the offeror for Reed Elsevier PLC, component of one years salary is supported, there may be Reed Elsevier PLC may serve notice upon Reed Elsevier NV exceptional circumstances where this maximum would be varying certain provisions of the governing agreement, including manifestly unreasonable that could justify additional compensation the governance and the standstill provisions.
on termination for loss of variable remuneration components.
Full disclosure on remuneration in event of dismissal is provided There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Reed Elsevier facilities that in the event of a change of control of both Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009.
NV and Reed Elsevier PLC and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option Best practice provisions II.
2.14: In view of their of the lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
detailed specificity and complexity and because of the confidential or potentially commercially sensitive nature of the information Directors concerned, individual performance targets and achievements The following individuals served as members of the Supervisory relevant for variable executive remuneration will only be disclosed and Executive Boards during the year: in general terms.
The Supervisory Board The Executive Board Principle III.
5: Until his retirement in March 2009, the Chairman A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom Chairman and of the Executive Board was a member of the Nominations appointed 1 June 2009 Chief Executive Officer Committee see pages 58 and 59.
G fide Boer-Kruyt from 11 November 2009 M Elliott I Smith Chairman and Best practice provision II.
6.3: The disclosure of L Hook Chief Executive Officer, transactions where directors have a conflict of interest, as required M van Lier Lels appointed appointed 22 April 2009, by these provisions, shall be qualified to the extent required under 13 January 2010 resigned 11 November 2009 applicable rules and laws pertaining to the disclosure of price R Polet Sir Crispin Davis sensitive information, confidentiality and justified aspects of D Reid Chairman and competition.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Chief Executive Officer, B van der Veer appointed retired 19 March 2009 Principle III.
7: The remuneration of Supervisory Board members 3 September 2009 M Armour is determined by the Combined Board in the context of the board J Hommen Chairman Chief Financial Officer harmonisation with Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group resigned 22 April 2009 A Prozes plc, having regard for the maximum approved by the general meeting of shareholders.
Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report are given on pages 50 and 51.
Details of the remuneration of the Best practice provision IV.
1.1: Appointments, suspensions members of the Executive Board and of the Supervisory Board and removal procedures for members of the Executive Board and and their interests in the share capital of the company are provided the Supervisory Board are set out in the Corporate Governance in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 78.
In order to safeguard the agreed board harmonisation with the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier NV provide that a resolution of the General Shareholders Meeting to appoint a member of the Executive or Supervisory Board other than in accordance with the proposal of the Combined Board shall require a majority of at least two-thirds of the votes cast if less than one-half of the companys issued capital is represented at the meeting.
Given the still generally low attendance rate at shareholders meetings in the Netherlands, the Boards believe that this qualified majority requirement is appropriate for this purpose.
164 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Overview Our business Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier NV Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board continued Financial statements and accounting records Going concern The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state The Combined Board, having made appropriate enquiries, considers of affairs of the company and the group as of 31 December 2009 that adequate resources exist for the combined businesses to and of the profit or loss in 2009.
In preparing the financial statements, continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board ensure that that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported preparing the 2009 financial statements.
In reaching this conclusion, by reasonable judgements and estimates, have been used and the Combined Board has had due regard to the combined applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Boards businesses financial position as at 31 December 2009, the strong are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which free cash flow of the combined businesses, Reed Elseviers ability disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position to access capital markets and the principal risks facing Reed Elsevier.
of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the law.
The Boards have general A commentary on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of cash flows, financial position and liquidity for the year ended the company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
31 December 2009 is set out in the Chief Financial Officers Report on pages 38 and 39.
This shows that after taking account of Internal control available cash resources and committed bank facilities that back up As required under sections II.
1.5. of the Dutch Code, short term borrowings none of Reed Elseviers borrowings fall the Audit Committee and the Combined Board have reviewed the due within the next two years.
Reed Elseviers policies on liquidity, effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management capital management and management of risks relating to interest during the last financial year.
The outcome of this review has been rate, foreign exchange and credit exposures are set out on pages 42 discussed with the external auditors.
The Combined Board confirmed and 43.
Further information on liquidity of the combined businesses that as regards financial reporting, the risk management and control can be found in note 19 of the combined financial statements.
The systems provide reasonable assurance against material inaccuracies principal risks facing Reed Elsevier are set out on pages 47 and 48. or loss and have functioned properly during the financial year.
Auditors Directors responsibility statement Resolutions for the re-appointment of Deloitte Accountants BV The Combined Board confirms, to the best of its knowledge, that: as auditors of the company and authorising the Supervisory Board the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance to fix their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming Annual with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by General Meeting.
the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the financial Signed by: position and profit or loss of the group: and The Supervisory Board The Executive Board A Habgood Chairman E Engstrom Chairman and the Report of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board appointed 1 June 2009 Chief Executive Officer includes a fair review of the development and performance G fide Boer-Kruyt from 11 November 200 of the business during the financial year and the position of M Elliott M Armour the group as at 31 December 2009 together with a description L Hook Chief Financial Officer of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
M van Lier Lels A Prozes appointed 13 January 2010 Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to any R Polet person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that D Reid such liability arises under Dutch law.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE B van der Veer Disclosure of information to auditors appointed 3 September 2009 As part of the process of approving the companys 2009 financial statements, the Supervisory and the Executive Boards and its Registered office members have taken steps to ensure that all relevant information Radarweg 29 was provided to the companys auditors and so far as the boards 1043 NX The Netherlands are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam Register file No: 33155037 17 February 2010 Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2009 Reed Elsevier 165
