Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of directors An international team The board has a blend of experience demonstrating both depth and global perspective c a, b, c John Matthews Mark Dixon Martin Robinson Chairman Chief Executive officer Senior Independent non-executive director John joined the Regus Board of Directors Mark founded the Regus Group in 1989 in 1995 as Non-Executive Director and and has been Chief Executive for over Martin joined the Regus Board of was appointed Chairman in 2002: he also 18 years, leading the Groups worldwide Directors in 2002, he is Senior serves as Chairman of the Nomination expansion programme and the Independent Director and Chairman of Committee.
John has announced his development of pioneering workplace the Remuneration Committee.
Martin retirement from the Board of Directors solutions.
Prior to 2007, Mark was located has announced his retirement from the with effect from 18 May 2010 following in the USA overseeing the integration of Board of Directors with effect from the Companys 2010 annual general the HQ Global Workplaces acquisition 18 May 2010 following the Companys meeting.
He is Independent Director and has now re-located to Europe.
Martin of Diploma plc, Minerva plc and SDL plc.
to Regus he established businesses in is currently Chairman of Centre Parcs A Chartered Accountant, he was the retail and wholesale food industry.
U. K., a partner in Figaro LLP and a previously Managing Director of County Director of the Supervisory Board of Natwest and Deputy Chairman as well EuroDisney SCA.
He was Chairman of as Deputy Chief Executive of Beazer plc, the Board of Management of Centre the international aggregates, construction Parcs Europe until August 2004.
previously held senior management positions with Scottish and Newcastle plc and Sara Lee Corporation and worked as a management consultant for four years with McKinsey & Co Inc. Stephen Gleadle Chief Financial officer Stephen joined the Regus Group as Chief Financial officer in October 2005.
Prior to Regus, he was Group Financial Controller of Tarmac plc and Finance Director at both Synstar plc and lastminute.
com Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For more information visit regus.
com Notes a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nomination Committee a, b, c a, b, c a, b, c Lance Browne Ulrich Ogiermann Douglas Sutherland Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Lance was appointed Non-Executive Ulrich was appointed Non-Executive Douglas was appointed Non-Executive Director of Regus on 27 August 2008 and Director of Regus on 27 August 2008 Director of Regus on 27 August 2008 will become Senior Independent Director and will become Chairman of the and with effect from the 18 May 2010 on 18 May 2010 following the Remuneration Committee on 18 May following the Companys 2010 annual Companys 2010 annual general 2010 following the Companys 2010 general meeting will become nonmeeting.
Lance is Vice Chairman of annual general meeting.
Ulrich is executive Chairman and Chairman Standard Chartered Bank China Limited, President and Chief Executive of of the Nomination Committee.
Douglas Non Executive Vice Chairman Cargolux International Airlines.
He is currently serves as Chairman of the Audit of Earthport plc and member of the G3 also a member of the Cargo Committee Committee and will stand down from Advisory Council.
He was previously of IATA, Chairman of the Board of this role on 18 May 2010.
Douglas was China Senior Advisor to the City of Governors of the International Air previously Chief Financial officer London, Non-Executive Director of IMI Cargo Association, and member of the of Skype during its acquisition by eBay plc, Chairman of China Goldmines plc Boards of SITA Inc. and Champ Cargo in October 2005 and was also Chief and Director of Business Development Systems.
Ulrich previously held senior Financial officer at SecureWave during at Powergen International HK.
its acquisition by PatchLink in July 2007.
Prior to this, Douglas enjoyed a career with Arthur Andersen as a partner for over a decade.
Douglas is currently also a Director of HosCo Kliniken Sarl and HosCo Gruppe S.. r. l. Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23
