Directors' report 17 The directors have pleasure in presenting their 36th Annual There has been no change in the above holdings in the period report, together with the audited financial statements for the 1st July 2009 to 29th July 2009. year ended 30th June 2009 as set out on pages 24 to 52.
Sir David McMurtry and D J Deer, both of whom are employed under a service agreement with the Company, retire by rotation PRINCIPAL ACTIvITIES AND REvIEW OF ThE BuSINESS and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the annual The principal activities of the Group during the year were the general meeting AGM to be held on 15th October 2009. design, manufacture and sale of advanced precision metrology Biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 4 and 5. and inspection equipment, computer aided design and Sir David McMurtry as one party and D J Deer and Mrs M E manufacturing systems and Raman spectroscopy systems.
Deer as the other party have entered into an agreement relating A review of the business and likely future developments is given to the way each party would vote his or her shares if requested in the Chairmans statement and the Financial review.
Segmental by the other party to do so.
This agreement continues until 25th information by geographical market is given in note 2 to the May 2013. financial statements.
The powers of the directors are set out in the Companys The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors report to Articles of Association.
There are no powers given to the include a business review.
Certain information that fulfils these directors that are regarded as unusual.
requirements and those of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, which require the Annual report to include a management DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INDEMNITy INSuRANCE report, can be found in the Financial review on pages 10 to 14 Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts the Companys of this Annual report and the description of corporate social Articles of Association provide for the directors and officers of responsibility activities on pages 15 and 16 of this Annual report, the Company to be appropriately indemnified.
The Company as well as in this Directors' report.
maintains insurance for the directors and officers of the The Companys corporate governance practices are set out in Company for their acts and omissions during the performance the Directors corporate governance report set out on pages 19 of their duties.
ShARE CAPITAL There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual Details of the Companys share capital, including rights and or other arrangements which are essential to the business of obligations, is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that Further information is also available on the Companys website: might terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
shareholder's authority for the purchase of its own shares was in existence during and valid at the end of the year.
However, the Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
DIvIDENDS The directors do not propose a final dividend 2008 12,832,620 AuDITORS or 17.63p per share, so the interim dividend of 2,816,671 after A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the the waiver of dividend entitlements by the executive directors, or Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
7.76p per share 2008 5,648,391 or 7.76p per share, is the total amount of dividends for the year, compared to 18,481,011 DISCLOSuRE OF INFORMATION TO AuDITORS or 25.39p per share for the previous year.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this DIRECTORS AND ThEIR INTERESTS Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys The directors who served during the year and their interests in auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps the share capital of the Company with the equivalent number of that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself voting rights, at the beginning and the end of the year, were:- aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Ordinary shares of 20p each ANNuAL GENERAL MEETING 2009 2008 The notice of AGM on page 53 sets out special business relating to a resolution for the purchase of own shares.
The directors Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 26,377,291 consider that the Company should have the flexibility to be able D J Deer 12,533,040 12,533,040 to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, up to a total of 10% of the issued share capital.
Shareholders are being B R Taylor 10,147 10,147 asked to pass the necessary special resolution no.
6 at the AGM A C G Roberts 5,165 5,165 to give the required authority until the earlier of the conclusion of the 2010 AGM and 31st December 2010.
There is at present no G McFarland - - intention to purchase shares and, if granted, the authority would only be exercised if an improvement in earnings per share were J P McGeehan 900 900 expected to result.
T D Snowden 5,000 5,000 T B Garthwaite 3,000 3,000 W H Whiteley 1,690 1,690 All the above holdings were beneficially held with the exception of 2,434,411 shares 2008 2,434,411 shares which were non-beneficially held by D J Deer but in respect of which he has voting rights.
Annual report and accounts 2009 18 Directors' report continued SuBSTANTIAL ShAREhOLDINGS Employees are encouraged to be involved in the Companys performance through various methods, including a staff Apart from the shareholdings and corresponding voting rights suggestion scheme under which awards are given for innovative of Sir David McMurtry and John Deer 36.2% and 17.2% suggestions for improving the way in which the Company respectively, the following voting rights have been notified to undertakes its business, an inventors award scheme for the directors, which represent 3% or more of the voting rights individuals who are named as inventors on patent applications attached to issued shares in the Company, as at 29th July 2009: that are subsequently granted and an annual performance Capital Research and Management Company, 4.8%.
bonus programme which is dependent upon individual performance and the performance of the Company.
RESEARCh AND DEvELOPMENT During the year, the Company implemented employee The Group has a continuing commitment to a high level of work forums at each of its UK sites.
Employee work forum research and development.
The expenditure involved is directed representatives were elected to liaise with management towards the research and development of new products relating on employee matters.
The employee representatives were to metrology, computer aided design and manufacturing consulted regarding a Group cost reduction programme and a systems, Raman spectroscopy systems, dental and certain compulsory redundancy programme which were implemented areas in the medical field.
316 staff were made redundant in the UK and 121 overseas.
Further information on employee matters is CREDITOR PAyMENT POLICy contained in the description of corporate social responsibility The Company has a variety of payment terms: activities set out on pages 15 and 16.
Contracts have been negotiated with a number of suppliers and payments are made in accordance with the terms of DONATIONS these contracts.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of 91,000 2008 41,000.
The Group organises its charitable Payment terms are disclosed on the Companys standard donations by two methods: firstly, by allocating a fund of money purchase order forms.
The Companys policy is to ensure to its Charities Committee: and secondly, through direct grants that all invoices are settled within 60 days of the receipt and as decided by the Board.
The Charities Committee meets at agreement of a valid and complete invoice.
least four times a year to consider all applications for donations Two payment runs are made each month.
Wherever from local groups in the area.
Its donations policy is to provide possible, payments are made using the Bankers Automated funds to local causes or local branches of national groups, with Clearing Service.
Further information is set out on pages 15 and 16.
Typically, the Company settles all due invoices in the calendar month following their receipt.
The number of days purchasing No political donations were made during the year 2008 nil.
outstanding at the end of June 2009 was approximately 30 days 2008 30 days.
EMPLOyEES By order of the Board The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is essential to the N Tang future of the business and the directors place great emphasis Secretary on the continuation of the Companys approved training policy.
29th July 2009 Health and safety matters are given special attention by the directors and well established systems of safety management are in place throughout the Group to safeguard employees, customers and visitors.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Opportunities are given to employees who become disabled, to continue in their employment or to be trained for other positions.
Regular contact is maintained with all employees through monthly communications meetings and departmental channels.
In addition, in February and August, the Assistant Chief Executive presents the interim results and final results respectively, to all employees following their publication.
