04 Directors The Board of directors John Deer, Deputy Chairman, age 71, trained as a mechanical engineer and worked for Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, from 1960 to 1974.
He was Managing Director of Renishaw from 1974 to 1989, primarily involved in the commercial direction of the Group, with particular emphasis on marketing and the establishment of the Groups whollyowned subsidiaries in the USA, Ireland, Japan, Germany, France and Italy.
John and Sir David McMurtry were members of the four-man team of Renishaw engineers honoured with the MacRobert Award in 1987.
John is responsible for group manufacturing and is chairman of the overseas marketing subsidiaries.
Ben Taylor, CEng, FIMechE, Assistant Chief Executive, age 60, has been involved in the field of metrology all his working life, after graduating in mechanical engineering and design from Pennsylvania State University.
Before joining Renishaw Inc as President in 1985, he was the Director of Engineering at Sheffield Measurement, USA.
Ben was appointed to the Board of Renishaw plc in 1987 and is responsible for group marketing, international operations and human resources.
He serves on various metrology committees Sir David McMurtry, CBE, RDI, CEng, FIMechE, and other professional associations and is a Chartered FREng, Chairman and Chief Executive, age 69, was Engineer, a fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers employed by Rolls-Royce plc, Bristol, for 17 years, latterly and a Liveryman of The Worshipful Company of Scientific holding the positions of Deputy Chief Designer and Instrument Makers.
Assistant Chief of Engine Design of all Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at Filton in Bristol.
After inventing the original Allen Roberts, FCA, Group Finance Director, age 60, is a probe in the early 1970s, Sir David founded Renishaw in Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England 1973 with John Deer.
His CBE was awarded for services and Wales.
Before joining Renishaw in 1979, he was to Science and Technology and he was appointed a employed for 11 years by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He Royal Designer for Industry RDI in 1989.
He is a visiting was appointed a director in 1980.
Allen heads group finance, Professor of Huddersfield University and has been awarded business systems and Wotton Travel Ltd. an honorary Doctorate of Engineering at the University of Birmingham and honorary degrees of Doctor of Engineering Geoff McFarland, Group Engineering Director, age 41, has a degree in mechanical engineering, and is a visiting professor at Heriot-Watt University, the University of Bristol and the at Bath University and an honorary professor at Heriot-Watt University of Bath.
Sir David is a Chartered Engineer, a University.
After working in the medical device and electronic Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers, a Fellow of the American Society of Manufacturing Engineers and manufacturing sectors, Geoff joined Renishaws research a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
In addition facility in Edinburgh in 1994, before moving to Renishaw's headquarters to become Director and General Manager of the to his role as Chairman and Chief Executive, Sir David also CMM product line.
Geoff was appointed to the Board in July has responsibility for group technology.
He heads the group engineering function and is also responsible for group IP and patents.
Geoff is a non-executive director of Delcam plc.
John Deer Ben Taylor Allen Roberts Geoff McFarland Renishaw plc 05 Joe McGeehan Terry Garthwaite David Snowden Bill Whiteley Joe McGeehan, CBE, FIEE, FREng, the senior 1.
3. independent non-executive director, age 63, is Managing Director of Toshiba Research Ltd: Telecommunications Research Laboratory, Bristol.
After obtaining the degrees of BEng and PhD in electrical and electronic engineering from the University of Liverpool, he spent several years involved in industrial research before entering academia.
Since 1985, he has held a number of senior positions 1.
Leo Somerville, President, Renishaw Inc at the University of Bristol.
Dave Wallace, Director & General Manager, degree of DEng by the University of Liverpool for his major CMM Products contribution to mobile communications research, much 3.
Tim Prestidge, Director & General Manager, Machine of which has formed the basis of international standards.
Tool, Styli and Custom Products He is a Fellow of the Institution of Electrical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Joe was appointed a director in January 2001.
Executive board In addition to all executive directors with Sir David Terry Garthwaite, FCA, non-executive director, age 62, McMurtry as Chairman is a chartered accountant, who after qualifying, joined Price Waterhouse in London.
He held a number of senior finance positions within Foseco plc including Director of Corporate Finance, prior to spending eleven years as Group Finance Director at the multinational engineering 1.
He is a non-executive director of Brammer plc and Wilmington Group plc.
Terry was appointed a director of Renishaw plc in July 2003 and is chairman of the Audit committee.
David Snowden, FCA, non-executive director, age 72, was a partner at KPMG for 25 years, latterly acting as Senior Partner for KPMG in South Wales.
6. was appointed a director of the Company in July 2003 and is the chairman of the Remuneration and nomination committee.
Bill Whiteley, FCMA, non-executive director, age 60 was, until his retirement in May 2008, the chief executive of Rotork plc, where he had been a director for 24 years.
During this period, Bill managed Rotork plcs business 1.
Marc Saunders, General Manager, Group Marketing Services and UK Sales during a period of major expansion, both geographically and in product lines.
Bill is also chairman of Spirax-Sarco 2.
Masumu Oishi, President, Renishaw KK Engineering plc and a non-executive director of Brammer 3.
Rhydian Pountney, General Manager, ROW Sales plc.
He has been awarded an honorary degree of Doctor 4.
Leo Somerville, President, Renishaw Inc of Engineering at the University of Bath.
Jean-Marc Meffre, Managing Director, Renishaw a director of the Company in June 2008.
Rainer Lotz, Managing Director, Renishaw GmbH Audit committee: Terry Garthwaite Chairman, Joe International sales and marketing board McGeehan, David Snowden, Bill Whiteley In addition to the executive directors Ben Taylor and Remuneration and nomination committee: David Snowden Allen Roberts with John Deer as Chairman Chairman, Terry Garthwaite, Joe McGeehan, Bill Whiteley Norma Tang, Corporate Lawyer and Company Secretary Annual report and accounts 2009
