Governance 23 Directors and Secretary Directors and Secretary Aged 61.
Chairman of United Utilities Group PLC and Appointed a director in October 2002. non-executive director of Rolls-Royce plc, Chief Executive of TUI Travel PLC.
Formerly J Sainsbury plc and Sara Lee Corporation non-executive director of Debenhams PLC USA.
Formerly Chief Executive of Imperial and Chief Executive of Sunworld Limited.
The Chemical Industries plc ICI from 2003 to senior independent non-executive director.
2008 and prior to joining ICI in 1997, held a John McAdam number of positions at Unilever, from 1974, Peter Long Chairman within its Birds Eye Walls, Quest International Non-Executive and Unichema International businesses.
Barrister and Chartered Management Aged 43.
Appointed Chief Executive in Appointed a director and Chief Financial April 2008.
Formerly Chief Financial Of cer Of cer in January 2009 and resigned with of ICI 2005-2008 prior to which he held effect from 31 March 2010.
Formerly Finance various corporate and operational roles in Director of GSL UK Limited 2006-2008, the Unilever group 1980-2005 including prior to which he held various finance roles Senior Vice President Finance, Unilever Food within the TNT group, including Finance Alan Brown and Beverage Europe and latterly Executive Michael Murray Director of TNT Asia Paci c and latterly as Chief Executive Chairman, Unilever China.
Chief Financial Chief Financial Of cer of TNT Express.
Appointed an executive Chairman of MCPC-PRS Alliance Limited director in May 2008.
Responsible for the and SuperGroup plc.
Formerly Chief Pest Control division from October 2009 Marketing Of cer and director of Vodafone and for the Ambius division and the group Group plc having held senior executive legal function and for the Asia and Paci c roles at Vodafone, including as Chief businesses January to September 2009.
Executive of Northern Europe, Middle East Formerly a senior executive at ICI 1987-2008 Peter Bamford and Africa operations and Chief Executive Andy Ransom where he was responsible for a number of Non-Executive of Vodafone UK.
An independent nonExecutive Director group functions and international businesses Director executive director.
including ICIs regional and industrial divisions.
Chairman of British a director in February 2008.
Chief Executive American Tobacco plc.
Non-executive director of Lazard & Co. Ltd in the UK, Deputy Chief of Carlsberg A S Denmark.
Formerly Governor Executive of European Investment Banking, of the Bank of Ireland and joint Chief Executive Deputy Chairman of Lazard LLC and Chairman and latterly a non-executive director of Pernod of Quintain Estates and Development PLC.
Ricard SA France and Chairman and Chief Joined Lazard in 1987 from Arthur Andersen.
Richard Burrows Executive of Irish Distillers and a director of An independent non-executive director.
William Rucker Non-Executive CityJet Limited Ireland and Mey ki Turkey.
Non-Executive Director An independent non-executive director.
Chairman of Fat Face World Ltd, a director Appointed a director in July 2005.
Chief of the Of ce of Fair Trading and of Book Financial Of cer of Fitness First Group Tokens Limited.
Formerly Group Finance Director of of HMV Group plc, Managing Director of King sher plc, having been previously Finance Waterstones, director of WH Smith PLC, Director of B&Q plc and Chief Financial non-executive director of Somer eld plc Of cer of Virgin Entertainment Group.
An independent An independent non-executive director.
Alan Giles Duncan non-executive director.
Non-Executive Tatton-Brown Director Non-Executive Director Paul Grif ths Secretary
