Governance 25 Directors report Directors report Authority for the company to make purchases of its own shares 25 Principal activities 26 Interests of directors 26 Communities of up to 181,483,101 million was obtained at the annual general in contracts and charitable 25 Business review donations meeting on 14 May 2009.
No purchases of its shares were made 26 Related party 25 Results and dividend transactions 26 Key contracts by the company in 2009.
25 Substantial interests 26 Employees 27 Research and and share capital The authority is normally renewable annually and approval will development 26 Auditors 25 Electronic be sought from shareholders at the 2010 annual general meeting 27 Financial communications 26 Post balance sheet to renew the authority for a further year.
instruments events 25 Board 27 Takeovers Directive 26 Policy in relation to 25 Directors interests Electronic communications payment of suppliers 27 Annual general 25 Directors indemnity meeting 26 Other performance In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the company will and insurance areas 2009 distribute its printed annual report only to shareholders who have indicated to the company that they wish to receive it in that form.
Principal activities The company will periodically canvas new shareholders on how The company is the holding company of a group which through they wish to receive their shareholder communications.
Further its operating businesses in some 50 countries provides a range information on shareholder services is available on pages 95 and 96. of, principally, business to business support services.
A summary description of the groups activities is given on pages 8 and 9.
Board The principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures of the Biographical information on the current directors of the company, company are shown on page 85. including their ages and their dates of appointment, is shown on page 23. Business review The directors retiring by rotation will be Richard Burrows, Duncan The strategy update and KPIs, on pages 4 to 7 and the business Tatton-Brown and William Rucker, who are eligible and offer review, on pages 10 to 15 form part of this report and report on the themselves for re-election at the 2010 annual general meeting.
groups activities during the year and on likely future developments.
None of the directors retiring by rotation has a service contract They also describe the key performance indicators used by the with the company.
Biographical information of the directors seeking board to monitor progress against strategy and list the principal election is set out in the notes accompanying the notice of the risks and uncertainties affecting the business.
Results and dividend Michael Murray resigned as a director with effect from 31 March 2010 and the company has announced the appointment of Jeremy The consolidated profit before income tax for 2009 was 65.0 million Townsend as a director and chief financial of cer.
He is currently the tax on this was 16.1 million.
Net consolidated capital employed Finance Director at Mitchells & Butlers, a role he has held since is 150.1 million compared to 61.9 million last year.
2008, having joined in 2005 as Deputy Finance Director.
He The company did not pay a final dividend on 2008 pro ts, or an previously held various financial roles at J Sainsbury plc, including interim dividend in respect of 2009 pro ts.
The board continues Group Financial Controller, Corporate Finance Director and to believe that it is in the best interest of the company to conserve Strategy Director.
He will join the board later in the year.
its cash resources and accordingly has not recommended a final dividend in respect of 2009.
Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the share capital Substantial interests and share capital of the company on 1 January 2009, or their date of appointment if The company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled later, and 31 December 2009 are set out on pages 36 and 38.
Details by another corporation or by an individual and there are no of incentive awards to directors are shown in the remuneration arrangements in operation which may at a subsequent date result report on page 38.
No director had any bene cial interest in the in a change in control of the company.
As at 26 March 2010 the shares of any of the companys subsidiaries on those dates.
Any following shareholders had indicated that they were interested in changes in the interests of the directors and their families in the 3% or more of the companys issued share capital.
There were no company and its subsidiary companies during the period from movements in the companys ordinary shares during the period.
the end of the financial year to 26 March 2010 are shown in the directors remuneration report.
of Nature of Substantial shareholding % ordinary shares holding Directors indemnity and insurance Schroders plc 13.97 253,544,833 Indirect Lloyds Banking Group plc 5.077 92,143,711 Indirect The company has granted indemnities in favour of its directors as is Invesco Ltd 5.01 90,991,468 Direct permitted by the Companies Audit Investigations and Community Aviva plc and subsidiaries 5.05 91,572,527 Direct Enterprise Act 2004.
It has also purchased insurance cover for the Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.003 90,790,221 Indirect directors against liabilities arising in relation to the company, as Legal and General Group plc 3.99 72,494,739 Indirect permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
This insurance does not Orbis Holdings Ltd 3.10 56,278,825 Indirect cover fraudulent activity.
Ameriprise Financial includes Threadneedle Asset Management Holdings Ltd. Silchester International Investors no longer holds a disclosable interest in the company.
26 Governance Directors report Post balance sheet events Interests of directors in contracts The board has a formal process for considering and, if appropriate, Since the end of the year the group has announced the closure of authorising potential con icts of interest which is reviewed annually the City Link hub at Wednesbury in the West Midlands.
See note 35. by the nominations committee.
Policy in relation to payment of suppliers During 2009 no director had any material interest in any signi cant contract to which the company or any subsidiary was a party.
Rentokil Initial has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers in various countries.
These are either negotiated along with other Related party transactions contract terms or conform to standard terms applied either by the relevant group company or by the supplier.
It is the companys Other than in respect of arrangements relating to employment of policy to pay suppliers in accordance with either negotiated or directors, details of which are provided in the remuneration report standard terms, provided that the relevant invoice is properly or as set out in note 34, there is no material indebtedness owed to presented in a timely manner and is not the subject of dispute.
or by the company to any employee or any other person considered At 31 December 2009 the trade creditors of the group represented to be a related party.
52 days of annual purchases and the UK businesses trade creditors represented 36 days of purchases: UK trade debtors represented Employees 40 days of turnover.
During the year the parent company did not have any trade creditors.
The company attaches considerable importance to communicating with colleagues.
Internal communications take place at a group, Other performance areas 2009 divisional, business and team level in order to ensure that colleagues receive accurate information in a timely manner and a As a means of helping shareholders to assess the success of our variety of structures exist for two-way communications at all levels.
strategies, the company uses nonfinancial performance indicators, At a corporate level the group intranet is used to announce which are shown in the table on page 6 and further information on company news with the support of direct e-mail communication these and on other performance areas is set out in the Corporate from the executive team.
This is supplemented by a periodic Responsibility review on pages 20 to 22. electronic magazine called Horizons which features interviews with senior executives about major initiatives and performance.
Communities and charitable donations In Europe the company meets its European Forum European Works The companys approach to the community consists of three Council usually twice a year to communicate with colleagues separate elements charitable cash donations often linked to representatives from across the continent.
It maintains an open employees initiatives, community support, and community dialogue with the Forum at times of business change.
Community support and investment is locally rather communications use a wide range of channels such as e-mail, than centrally driven.
Charitable donations amounted to 150,000 divisional intranets, electronic newsletters and quarterly magazines 142,000 in 2008.
This amount excludes value in kind donations to communicate business issues including financial and economic or colleagues time.
Great importance is placed on face-to-face team meetings.
Donations for UK charitable purposes in 2009 amount to 61,000 and a further 89,000 was donated in other countries.
There were Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully no payments to political organisations.
Payments are made to a considered, taking into account the aptitudes of the applicants.
wide range of charitable organisations both in the UK and overseas.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort The company operates a matched giving scheme whereby the is made to ensure that their employment with Rentokil Initial company matches donations raised by employee fundraising.
continues and that appropriate re-training is made available.
It is the policy of Rentokil Initial that the training, career development Further details of the companys nonfinancial indicators can be and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, found in the companys web-based Corporate Responsibility Report be identical with those of other employees.
2009, which is available at www.
Auditors Key contracts In September 2009 the company appointed KPMG Audit Plc as The group does not have any dominant customer or supplier auditors and  LLP resigned.
on the change of auditors is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 28 and 29.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be put to the annual general meeting on Friday 14 May 2010.
Governance 27 Directors report The companys main central committed bank facilities require Research and development mandatory prepayment and cancellation in the event of a change The company invests in an active programme of research and of control of the company.
development in support of its major international business streams.
This programme includes the conception, design, There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or testing and manufacture of new products to enhance the quality, terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as some effectiveness and safety of the companys services and minimise commercial agreements, nancing arrangements and employee their environmental impact.
Where appropriate, work may be share plans.
None of these are deemed to be signi cant in terms of sponsored at universities with expertise in relevant areas.
The their potential impact on the group as a whole.
The remuneration companys total research and development expenditure in 2009 and contractual arrangements for the executive directors and was 1.7 million 2008: 1.7 million.
senior management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under The Takeovers Directive.
Copies of executive Financial instruments directors service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the companys registered of ce and at the annual The companys financial risk management objectives and policies general meeting.
are set out within the financial review on pages 16 to 19, which includes the policy for hedging certain forecast financial Annual general meeting transactions.
The review and notes 16, 21 and 22 to the accounts also detail the companys exposure to price, credit and liquidity The annual general meeting of the company will be held at No.
The company is not materially exposed to foreign exchange Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ on Friday 14 May 2010 at 11 a. m. risks arising from cross-border trading transactions, although it is In addition to the adoption of the 2009 report and accounts, signi cantly exposed to foreign exchange investment risks.
resolutions dealing with re-election of directors and the resolution dealing with the approval of the directors remuneration report, Takeovers Directive there are resolutions on the following matters: the appointment Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which and remuneration of the auditors, a routine authority to repurchase implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required the companys shares, authorities to allot shares and disapply to disclose certain additional information.
Those further disclosures, pre-emption rights and a general authority to make donations to which are not made elsewhere in this annual report, are as follows: EU political organisations.
The companys articles of association give power to the board to A separate letter to shareholders containing the notice of the appoint directors, but also require directors to retire and submit annual general meeting and explanatory information on the themselves for re-election at the first annual general meeting resolutions to be proposed as special business accompanies this following the appointment and for re-election by rotation.
This annual report and the notice of the annual The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution general meeting can be found on the companys website, of the shareholders.
The board is responsible for the management of the business of the By order of the board, company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and the companys memorandum and articles of association.
For example, the articles contain speci c provisions and restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the articles of association and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
Paul Griffiths A copy of the articles of association is available to view on the Secretary companys website.
26 March 2010 The companys Euro Medium Term Note Programme contains conditions that in general terms allow the Notes in issue by the company to be put back to the company in the event of a change of control of the company coupled with either a credit rating downgrade below investment grade or where the companys credit rating is already below investment grade.
