Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group Non-executive Directors Accounts for the year ended 27 December 2009.
Alan Jackson John Jackson Results and dividends Tony Hughes The results for the year ended 27 December 2009 are presented under International Financial Reporting Standards In respect of 2009, each of the non-executive Directors IFRSs.
The Report and Accounts are drawn up on a excluding the Chairman is considered by the Board to be 52 week reporting basis ending on 27 December 2009 independent.
John Jackson holds the role of senior non- 2008: 52 week reporting basis ending on 28 December executive Director.
Alan Jackson transitioned from executive 2008.
The results for the year are set out in the Group Chairman to non-executive Chairman on 1 January 2006 consolidated income statement on page 45.
This shows and following his tenure as an executive Director, is not a Group profit after taxation of 37.3m 2008: 32.2m.
considered to be an independent non-executive Director.
An interim dividend of 1.4p per share was paid on 14 October No Director has a service contract with the Company 2009.
A second interim dividend of 6.3p per share has been requiring more than twelve months notice.
In accordance with declared, and will be paid on 30 March 2010 to shareholders the Articles of Association, the Director retiring by rotation is on the Register on 12 March 2010.
The Directors propose a Trish Corzine who, being eligible, offers herself for re-election final dividend of 0.3p per share, which is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 May 2010. at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on John Jackson has notified the Board of his intention to stand 6 May 2010.
Should this be approved, this final dividend will down as a Director of the Company with effect from the end be paid on 7 July 2010, bringing the ordinary dividend per of the Annual General Meeting.
share payable in respect of 2009 to 8.0p 2008: 7.7p.
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following Principal activity non-executive Directors: The principal activity of the Group is the operation of John Jackson restaurants and pub restaurants.
Further information relating Tony Hughes to the business, including a review of the years performance and planned developments, is given in the Chief Executive John Jackson is currently Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Officers review of operations on pages 6 to 11.
During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Business review the following non-executive Directors: The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a John Jackson business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the Tony Hughes requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review of Tony Hughes is currently Chairman of the Remuneration operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 4 Committee.
to 15, which are incorporated in this report by reference.
During the year the Nominations Committee comprised Directors the following Directors: Full details of the Directors of the Company are given on John Jackson Chairman pages 16 and 17.
The Directors who held office during 2009 Alan Jackson were as follows: Andrew Page Tony Hughes Executive Directors Andrew Page The Directors remuneration report, which includes details Stephen Critoph of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys Trish Corzine shares and options, together with information on service contracts, is set out on pages 29 to 36.
18 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Directors shareholdings on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, the purchase is carried out.
This authority expires at the all being beneficially owned, were as follows: forthcoming Annual General Meeting and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of At At At shares in issue at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors 2 March 27 December 28 December have no present intention of exercising this authority.
2010 2009 2008 Executive Directors The Group has entered into various contracts including Andrew Page 506,806 506,806 417,485 leases during the course of ordinary business which may Stephen Critoph 202,491 202,491 77,581 be terminated in the event of a change of control of The Trish Corzine 213,757 213,757 132,466 Restaurant Group plc.
Non-executive Directors Substantial shareholdings Alan Jackson 400,191 400,191 400,191 At 18 February 2010 the Company had been notified of the John Jackson 300,000 following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share Tony Hughes 10,000 10,000 10,000 capital of the Company: Details of the Directors share options are disclosed in Number % of issued the Directors remuneration report on pages 34 and 35. of shares share capital The closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares on Old Mutual Asset Managers 13,420,377 6.79% 27 December 2009 was 187.5p and the range during the J. P. Morgan Asset Management 10,295,748 5.22% year was 105.0p to 209.5p.
Scottish Widows 10,197,841 5.16% Standard Life 8,432,381 4.27% Share capital structure Legal & General 8,084,987 4.09% The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares of BAE Pension Fund 7,896,552 4.00% 1 28 p. The authorised share capital is 284,444,444 ordinary 8 F&C Asset Management 7,507,863 3.80% 1 shares of 28 p. As at 27 December 2009, the issued, called 8 Aviva Investors 7,050,646 3.57% up and fully paid number of shares in issue was 197,575,863 BlackRock Inc 6,381,150 3.23% shares.
There are no preference shares or special rights Rathbones 6,350,000 3.21% pertaining to any of the shares in issue.
Corporate governance Following the 2009 Annual General Meeting the Directors The Company is committed to high standards of corporate have had the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate governance and to observing the principles of corporate nominal amount of 18,444,266 which represented governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate approximately one third of the ordinary share capital of the Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Company at the time the authority was given by shareholders.
Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is This authority expires at the Annual General Meeting to be accountable to shareholders.
held on 6 May 2010 and it will be proposed to extend this authority updated for the current number of shares in issue Statement of compliance with the Combined Code at the forthcoming Meeting.
The Directors have no present Throughout the year ended 27 December 2009, the intention of exercising this authority.
Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the Code except for provisions concerning the number In addition, following the 2009 Annual General Meeting, of Directors considered to be independent, and the the Directors have the authority to make market purchases independence of the Chairman.
of shares in The Restaurant Group plc on behalf of the Company up to 19,673,884 ordinary shares which Statement about applying the principles of the Code represented 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 capital at the time of the Notice of the 2009 Annual General of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the Meeting.
The minimum price that may be paid for such supporting principles, by complying with the Code as 1 shares is 28 p per share.
The maximum price is the higher 8 reported above.
Further explanation of how the Main of 5% above the average middle market quotation for the Principles have been applied is set out below and in ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the the Directors remuneration report and the Audit date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last Committee report.
independent trade and the highest current independent bid The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 19 Report of the Directors continued The Board There is significant involvement from the non-executive The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of Directors.
This involves an ongoing dialogue with the the Company and Group within a framework of prudent and executive Directors including constructive challenge of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and performance and the Groups strategy.
The Board reviews the Groups strategic objectives Directors are provided with sufficient information to allow and looks to ensure that the necessary financial and human them to monitor, assess and challenge the executive resources are in place to achieve these objectives, and to management of the Group.
Comprehensive Board papers review management performance against these objectives.
including financial information are circulated to all Directors The Board also sets the Companys values and standards prior to Board meetings and, on a weekly basis, they receive and manages the business in a manner to meet its up-to-date trading information.
The non-executive Directors obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders.
The have the opportunity to meet without the executive Directors Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, present, and this includes discussions of targets set and the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the achieved by management.
Executive Director of the Concessions division and two non-executive Directors.
Their biographies appear on pages All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 16 and 17 and these demonstrate a range of experience and Company Secretary and a procedure has been agreed for sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues the Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take of strategy, performance, resources and standards of independent professional advice, if necessary, at the expense conduct which is vital for the success of the Group.
On joining the Board there is a process for Directors to receive training as to their role and its John Jackson acts as senior independent non-executive requirements and for non-executive Directors to gain an Director and is available to shareholders if they have reasons understanding of the whole business.
Non-executive for concern on which contact through the normal channels Directors are actively encouraged to meet with operational is inappropriate or has failed to resolve an issue.
management and to visit the Groups operations in order to enhance their understanding of the Groups business, its The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly brands, employees and processes.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the were eight Board meetings with full attendance by Board and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the Board members.
strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The Board meets on a regular basis and there is a formal Executive Directors are included in the annual performance schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consideration.
evaluation of all senior employees within the Group.
This This includes approval of the annual budget and the three involves a comprehensive review of performance against year business plan, approval of the interim and year end objectives and covers areas for future development through Report and Accounts, review and approval of significant appraisal documentation and meetings.
The non-executive capital expenditure including development of new sites, Directors also meet in the absence of the Chairman to significant disposals of assets and acquisitions or disposals appraise the Chairmans performance in the light of his of businesses.
Operational management are responsible for the day-to-day The Company acknowledges the importance of developing running of the Group and report on a regular basis on that the skills of the Directors to run an effective Board.
To assist performance to the Board.
The Board is responsible for in this, Directors are given the opportunity to attend relevant reviewing, challenging and approving the strategic direction courses and seminars and to acquire skills and experience of the Group and monitoring operational performance.
which may enhance their contribution to the ongoing The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper progress of the Group.
The Board and committees of the management of the Group and has access to the necessary Board have been subject to a formal performance appraisal, information to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors through an internal questionnaire, and the performance of all are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity members of the Board is considered as part of the annual after their appointment, except where they are appointed by remuneration review process.
shareholders, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of not more than three years.
20 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Communications with shareholders The Restaurant Group plc strategy Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The Restaurant Groups key objective is to grow shareholder The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review of value and the strategy deployed to achieve this is to build a operations and Group Finance Directors report on pages 4 business capable of generating long-term, sustainable and to 15 include a detailed review of the business and the Chief growing cash flows.
In pursuit of this we have built a business Executive Officers review of operations on pages 6 to 11 which is focused on the growing casual eating-out market.
includes a review of planned future developments.
There We have targeted segments of this market which offer distinct is a regular dialogue with institutional investors including barriers to entry and where we can be confident of delivering presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement good growth in profits and cash flows and where there is of the year-end results, and at the half year.
good potential for high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus our activities in two areas Leisure and Feedback from major institutional shareholders is provided Concessions.
The Group operates in the expanding casual to the Board on a regular basis and, where appropriate, dining market, and our offerings continue to provide good the Board will take steps to address their concerns and value for money in comfortable surroundings and excellent recommendations.
The Board uses the Annual General service from our dedicated teams.
Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman The Groups strategy is to deliver further organic growth aims to ensure that the chairmen of the Audit Committee, through the roll-out of our brands Frankie & Bennys, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are Chiquito, Garfunkels and our Pub restaurant business.
We available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions, have a solid pipeline of sites for development, coupled with a and for all Directors to attend.
strong focus on continuing to deliver like-for-like sales growth from our existing restaurants.
Our Concessions business Remuneration Committee operates in a dynamic and complicated market where our The Remuneration Committee consists of two non-executive management teams have market-leading expertise and a Directors.
There was 100% attendance of the four track record of innovation and improving sales performance Remuneration Committee meetings during 2009.
The role and the Group continues to look for opportunities to expand of this Committee and details of how the Company complies this division.
with the principles of the Code are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 29 to 36.
The Restaurant Group plc risk factors The Board of Directors regularly identify, monitor and manage Nominations Committee potential risks and uncertainties to the Group.
The list overleaf The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive sets out what the Directors consider to be the current Directors, the non-executive Chairman and the Chief principal risks and uncertainties, with an overview of the Executive Officer.
It met twice during 2009 with full mitigation process for these.
This list is not presumed to attendance at both meetings.
There are written terms be exhaustive and is, by its very nature, subject to change.
of reference for the Nominations Committee.
It makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment or The Restaurant Group plc replacement of additional Directors.
It is also responsible key performance indicators for succession planning for the Group.
The Board of Directors and executive management receive a wide range of management information delivered in a timely Audit Committee manner.
Listed below are the principal measures of progress The Audit Committee consists of two non-executive that are reviewed on a regular basis to monitor the Directors.
During the year the Committee was chaired by development of the Group.
John Jackson who is a qualified accountant.
The Audit Committee met twice during 2009 with full attendance at Like-for-like sales each meeting.
A more detailed description of the work This measure provides an indicator of the underlying undertaken by the Audit Committee is included in the Audit performance of our existing restaurants, and highlights Committee report on pages 37 and 38.
Shareholders of the successful development of our offerings to best match Company have the opportunity to re-appoint Deloitte LLP changing consumer demands over time.
There is no as external auditors of the Company at the Annual General accounting standard or consistent definition of like-for-like Meeting to be held on 6 May 2010. sales across the industry, although the Group has applied a consistent basis of calculation across years for reporting like-for-like performance.
During 2009, the Group like-for-like sales declined by 2% which followed a 1.5% increase in 2008 and a 5.5% increase in 2007.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued Nature of risk Mitigation plans Strategic external risks Adverse economic conditions and a decline in consumer Regular monitoring of performance and appropriate confidence and spend in the UK action plans Increased supply of new restaurant concepts into the market Concentration on segments offering higher barriers to entry and good growth prospects: regular monitoring of performance and appropriate action plans Impact of terrorism in key locations including airports Contingency planning and training: liaison with authorities and landlords in key locations Possible health pandemic that may cause customers to stay Contingency planning and communication with employees away or prevent restaurants being adequately staffed Lack of new site opportunities, and risks to existing Dedicated property department focusing on new site Concession agreements development, strong relationships with Concessions partners Operational risks Failure to provide customers with brand-standard value for Training, mystery diner visits, monitoring of customer feedback, money offerings and service levels internal quality control testing Major failure of key suppliers to deliver products into restaurants Contingency planning for supply chain and suppliers Damage to our brands images due to failures in environmental Training of restaurant and pub teams: detailed health and health compliance in the restaurants or from contamination safety manual: regular internal and external auditing of all sites: of products auditing of supply chain and suppliers: health and safety incentives and awards The loss of key personnel or failure to manage Benchmarking of remuneration packages: analysis of staff succession planning turnover: performance appraisal and review system to retain existing talent: Long-Term Incentive Plan Financial risks Increase in prices of key raw materials including foreign Rolling programme of securing longer-term contracts to mitigate currency fluctuations, wages and overheads and utilities short-term pricing fluctuations: energy efficiency programme Reversion of formerly sold or disposed leases following Monitoring of sub-let companies: ongoing relationships with business failure of new occupiers property agents Failure to meet banking covenants Signed facility agreement, monthly monitoring of financial performance against covenant levels: banking relationships: significant levels of headroom against covenants Compliance risks Increased regulation of the food and beverage industry Monitoring of developments and liaison with external leading to higher costs authorities such as the Food Standards Agency Breakdown in internal controls through fraud or error, Experienced staff in key roles: segregation of duties: internal major failure of IT systems and external audit processes: Audit Committee role Changes to tax regime, including VAT, corporation tax and Ongoing monitoring in conjunction with external advisers income tax Further information on the management of risks highlighted above is provided in the Chief Executive Officers review of operations on pages 6 to 11.
22 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements New sites opened The Group has well-established procedures which have been The expansion of our brands is a key driver of the Groups developed over many years which meet the requirements profitability.
As noted in the Group Finance Directors report, of the Turnbull Guidance.
A key control procedure is the potential new sites are subject to a rigorous appraisal process day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board before they are presented to the Board for approval.
This in all aspects of the business and their attendance at regular process ensures we maintain the quality of openings as well management meetings at which performance against plan as the quantity of sites opened.
During 2009 the Group and business prospects are reviewed.
The Group has opened 19 new sites and plans to open 15-25 new established a monthly executive management meeting restaurants during 2010. where the three executive Directors, senior operational managers and head of functional departments review EBITDA Group performance and issues affecting the Group.
The ability of the Group to finance its roll-out programme is aided by strong cash flows from the existing business.
Additionally, the Board seeks to continually strengthen the The Group defines EBITDA as operating profit before internal control system where this is consistent with improving depreciation, amortisation and non-trading items.
EBITDA the relationship between risk and reward.
The Groups serves as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by associate company, Living Ventures Restaurants Group operations and is closely monitored.
During 2009 the Limited, does not fall under the same internal controls as Group generated 79.6m EBITDA, an increase of 3% the Group.
The internal controls within the associate are on the 2008 level of 77.5m.
discussed with management of that company during shareholder meetings and are considered to be appropriate Operating profit margin for an entity of its size.
The Board and management closely monitor profit margins as an indicator of operating efficiency within restaurants and Other key features and the processes for reviewing across the Group.
During 2009 the Group adjusted operating effectiveness of the internal control system are margin was 12.2% 2008: 13.0%.
In addition, the Group described below: closely scrutinises the returns on invested capital from Terms of reference for the Board and its sub-committees, new site openings and the average EBITDA generated including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board by restaurants.
and an agreed annual programme of fixed agenda items for Board approval.
Further information on these key metrics is provided in the An established organisational structure with clear lines Chief Executive Officers review of operations and the Group of responsibility and rigorous reporting requirements.
Operational performance and operational matters are considered at monthly meetings of the executive Directors Internal control with senior management.
Financial performance is The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal monitored and action taken through weekly reporting control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In accordance to the executive Directors and monthly reporting to the with guidance for directors Internal Control: Guidance for Board against annual budgets approved by the Board.
Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, Capital investment is regulated by a budgetary process the Board has ensured that there is an ongoing process for and authorisation levels, with appraisals and post reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control investment reviews.
including identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Comprehensive policy manuals setting out agreed risks faced by the Group.
This process, which is regularly standards and control procedures.
These include human reviewed by the Board, is carried out in conjunction with resources related policies, information technology and business planning and is documented in a risk register that health and safety.
The Group employs a firm of external has been progressively enhanced during the financial year auditors to monitor restaurants on a regular basis for and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and compliance with statutory and internal health and Accounts.
Whilst acknowledging its overall responsibility for safety requirements.
the system of internal control, the Board is aware that the An internal audit function headed by an experienced system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk internal auditor has access to all areas of the Company of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide and Groups business and reports into the Board.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 23 Report of the Directors continued Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting to the accounts records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The Directors are responsible for preparing the the financial position of the company and enable them to Annual Report, Directors remuneration report and the ensure that the parent company financial statements comply financial statements in accordance with applicable law with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for and regulations.
safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and other irregularities.
statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and to prepare the Group financial statements under International integrity of the corporate and financial information included Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom European Union.
The Group financial statements are also governing the preparation and dissemination of financial required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Information provided to auditors IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for Each of the current Directors have taken all the steps that each financial year the Companys financial position, financial they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful relevant information needed by the Companys auditors for representation of the effects of transactions, other events and the purpose of their audit and to establish that the auditors conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in of any relevant information of which the auditors are unaware.
the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework This information is given and should be interpreted in for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Act 2006. achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: Going concern properly select and apply accounting policies: As referred to in the Chief Executive Officers review of present information, including accounting policies, operations there are significant economic concerns facing the in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, United Kingdom and consumer-facing industries in particular.
comparable and understandable information: and The Group Finance Directors report also contains a summary provide additional disclosures when compliance with the of the cash flows and borrowing position of the Group.
specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable Further information on the Groups policies for capital risk users to understand the impact of particular transactions, management and financial risk management are set out other events and conditions on the entitys financial below.
Potential risk factors and uncertainties that could position and financial performance.
affect the business are listed above.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company The Group is highly cash generative, as explained in the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Group Finance Directors report, and enjoys negative working Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom capital as it is generally does not give credit to its customers.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent The Group has a debt facility of 120m which matures in company financial statements are required by law to give December 2012 and net debt at 27 December 2009 of a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
Based on the In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Groups plans for 2010 and after making enquiries including required to: preparation of reasonable trading forecasts, consideration of select suitable accounting policies and then apply current financing arrangements and current headroom for them consistently: liquidity and covenant compliance, the Directors have a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate and prudent: resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern have been followed, subject to any material departures basis in preparing the financial statements.
disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern Corporate responsibility basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The Restaurant Group plc TRG acknowledges that it has company will continue in business.
a significant role to play with regard to the community and wider environment in which it operates.
This statement sets out the principal areas of focus and activity that the Group has undertaken to date, and what the Group is looking at for future development, in managing its impact on customers, employees, communities and the wider environment.
24 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements This is split into five sections: Hydrogenated fats Our market the area of business that our strategy is In light of UK government and consumer focus with regard focused on.
to consumption of products containing high levels of fat, Our people the Groups policies and actions towards particularly saturated fats and artificial hydrogenated our 10,000 employees.
trans-fats, which have been linked to potential risks to Our communities how TRG interacts with those cardiovascular health, we conducted a detailed review communities from which our customers and employees of our suppliers and our menu ingredients in conjunction are drawn.
with our external food safety consultants.
Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
We have worked closely with all of our suppliers to Our shareholders those that have invested capital identify the types and levels of fats and oils in our in the development of The Restaurant Group plc, and ingredients to facilitate a programme of removal, to whom the Directors and management of the Group replacement or reduction, whilst maintaining our are accountable.
The vast majority of our ingredients 99% are Our market now free from hydrogenated fats and oils.
The Restaurant Group plc has focused its attention on Since August 2007 we have prohibited the supply of new markets in the United Kingdom which have significant growth ingredients containing added hydrogenated fats and oils.
For a number of years, dining out has been a We continue to work closely with all of our suppliers to growing market, and, partially as a result of this, there has identify and progress opportunities for reducing overall been an increased focus from customers and regulatory levels of saturated fat wherever possible and to provide authorities on health issues relating to our sector.
seen initiatives on alcohol, food in particular on calorie Whilst some trans-fats occur naturally and are found in small consumption and the fat and salt content in food and amounts in meat and dairy products, concerns have been raised smoking over recent years and these are set to continue to about artificial trans-fats, formed during a food manufacturing be a focus.
It is important that the Group continues to monitor process called hydrogenation that turns oils into solid semi-solid closely these developments and ensure that we continue fats.
These hydrogenated fats oils can be found in products such to offer our customers a broad range of choice in our as biscuits, cakes, margarine, processed foods and cooking oils.
Other initiatives Healthy eating All our red meat is supplied from producers in the UK and Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG Ireland and we have taken significant steps to reduce our acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have food miles.
This process will continue into 2010, with a a role to play in providing appropriate options from which focus on improving our supply chain efficiency and reducing individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly the number of deliveries, and therefore food miles, to believes that it should provide its guests with choice.
we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent options.
TRG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange For many people dining out is a treat, and therefore the SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and improvement normal restrictions which may be applied to healthy eating on in ethical business practices across the supply chain: 88 a day-to-day basis are waived in favour of enjoyment and of our food suppliers provide information describing their experience.
For example, whilst completing the weekly shop procedures and practices to the Group via SEDEX.
a consumer may choose chocolate fudge cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece of fruit during As in previous years, there continue to be no known the week.
genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not The Group is undertaking a process of monitoring nutritional provide the Group with such products.
We are also working content across its menus and, as part of our ongoing menu with our suppliers to target and remove the Southampton review, will look to develop the healthier options available to Institute colourings that can cause hyperactivity in children customers and to work with our suppliers to reduce salt and this will remain an ongoing focus during 2010. content and calorific content.
Drink aware The Group has engaged with the Food Standards Authority All our restaurants operate an Are You 21 policy, whereby Healthy Catering initiative and is committed to ensure that we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears all menus feature lighter options and all childrens meals to be under 21.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol to come with a choice of carbohydrate alternatives and a under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption with a meal.
complementary portion of salad or vegetables, and to work All of our restaurants offer a wide range of non-alcoholic with our suppliers to source lower salt, saturated fat and drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and calorie versions of ingredients where possible.
non-alcoholic cocktails and tap water is available for customers free of charge.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 25 Report of the Directors continued Smoking With our portfolio of sites it is vital that our communication is From 1 July 2007 we have complied fully with the legislation of a very high standard.
Each day branch staff are given team throughout the United Kingdom which has banned smoking briefings: weekly meetings for staff and management are in public areas.
held: and weekly communications packs are issued from head office to each brand.
Our senior managers are out in Our people the business extensively and interact daily with their branch The most important asset any company can have is its management and team members to ensure full two-way people.
At The Restaurant Group plc we strive to nurture our communication is present throughout the business.
individuals to build great teams.
Anyone has the potential to develop within our company and we endeavour to give them The health and safety of our customers and employees is of the tools and knowledge to encourage this.
This is the key to paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures any successful business and our team is one of which we are to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far as especially proud.
We have very clear procedures and standards in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors and We employ approximately 10,000 people and continue to carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have also increase this number as we expand our business.
Even significantly increased the level of training in health and safety during the difficult trading conditions experienced in 2009 matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance we have continued to build our workforce and have created the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
around 500 extra jobs, meaning more opportunities for individuals and the strengthening our brands nationwide.
Our communities Active involvement in the local communities around our Our policies ensure that we offer equal rights regardless of restaurants and pub restaurants is important to The age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion.
Whilst we operate successful national This gives us a diverse group of employees able to meet the brands our focus is on local community marketing whether challenges our market presents.
We have a fair and open this is for Frankie & Bennys, with almost 200 restaurants, or recruitment process with clear terms of employment.
All staff the individual pub at the heart of a village community.
The are provided with a contract of employment and copies of our Restaurant Group supports staff fundraising activities at a staff handbook along with other policies to ensure everyone brand and local level.
is aware of our rules, expectations and procedures, including grievance and disciplinary issues.
The Group also has a During 2009 we engaged in a number of local and national defined termination policy, should this be required.
charitable events: The Frankie & Bennys team worked with our customers Recently there has been a stronger focus on ensuring the to raise more than 136,000 for the BBC Children in Need recruitment of our teams complies with current legislation.
appeal by organising fancy dress parties, charity car With the UK Border Agency instigating regular visits to washes, raffles and other themed events: employers to check the validity of our employees rights Chiquito donated 1 for every main course Tequila Red to work in the UK we have instigated robust measures Snapper purchased to the Casa Alianza charity in Mexico to prevent the possibility of TRG contravening the rules.
helping homeless people : Our pubs ran a months fundraising for Breast Cancer The Restaurant Group pays all of its employees at least the Care, with charity pub quizzes, fun runs and the sale of national minimum wage and does not utilise tips in any form pink dishes, raising 6,000: to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the employees, Frankie & Bennys continues its initiative to support local with credit card tips attracting only the usual tax deductions, junior sports teams across the country, providing new but unlike some of our competitors, no administration fee is sports kit for more than 90 local teams in 2009: and taken by the company.
At Sutton Hall near Macclesfield the Brunning and Price team held a local Food and Drink Festival that attracted The Group allocates considerable resources to provide high 22 local artisan food producers and 45 cask ales from quality training to our teams.
Training begins on the first day UK microbrewers and featured wine and cheese tastings, and is an ongoing process of development and support.
Our demonstrations of fish filleting, cookery, bread making, training team is fully qualified and deliver high quality courses, chocolate making, cheese making and butchery and a as well as guiding new and established team members wide range of family activities for around 3,000 visitors throughout their development.
2009 saw the team receive all to raise more than 8,000 apiece in aid of the North a National Innkeeping Training Awards NITA award for West Air Ambulance and the East Cheshire hospice.
the Best Licensee Induction for our Manager in Training programme.
TRG have been nominated again in the same category for 2010, as well as an individual award for one of our General Managers for the quality of his training.
26 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements We are proud of our Frankie & Bennys Schools Programme Reducing the resources we use and the waste we generate which supports the Primary Key Stages Curriculum.
This is also a key objective for the Group.
encourages primary school classes to visit their local Frankie & Bennys restaurant to learn about the restaurant In 2009 we installed water-saving devices in all our business, food hygiene and health and safety, and to have restaurant washrooms: the opportunity to make and bake their own pizzas.
During TRG recycled almost 500,000 litres of used cooking oil: 2009 more than 4,000 pupils visited Frankie & Bennys as our contractor supplies a bio-diesel production facility: part of this Programme.
Kids packs in Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito are now made from 75% recycled material: Frankie and Bennys Our environment Packs are now packaged in paper bags rather than During 2009 there have been a number of developments plastic to reduce the period required for decay: and regarding the Groups commitment to mitigating its impact on Waste glass and cardboard is collected for recycling the environment.
Not only are the attitudes and expectations at over 90% of our businesses where we control of our customers changing over time but we recognise that the collection.
the Groups activities impact the natural environment, most significantly with regard to energy consumption and carbon During 2009, we have also trialled a more environmentally emissions, water consumption and the creation and removal friendly building design with more efficient kitchen equipment of waste.
Innovative regulatory mechanisms are being and other machinery.
During 2010 we will monitor the savings introduced that may in future create a direct link between in energy consumption from this restaurant and we are environmental outcomes and financial benefits or penalties.
working with the Carbon Trust and other external advisers to develop further environmental efficiencies in our building TRG is working towards ensuring the business is compliant design and equipment used in our operations.
with the requirements of the Carbon Reduction Commitment.
To that end we have established a close relationship with the Our shareholders Carbon Trust, who advise the Group on best practice and The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver ensure energy-consciousness is at the heart of our strategic value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the objectives covering premises design and construction, eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where we heating, lighting, ventilation and food production.
TRG is can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and which working towards achieving the Carbon Trust Standard.
offer high returns on investment.
This has led the Group to focus investment into the Leisure division and our We have a multi-disciplinary team working on reducing Concessions division, which operates principally on airports.
our energy consumption through operational practices and In 2005 the Group disposed of its high-street focussed staff awareness, premises design and the improved use of brands, Est Est Est and Caffe Uno.
Garfunkels in Central technology to monitor and control our use of energy, water London, Bath and Edinburgh continues to perform well for and waste.
By January 2010 we had installed Automated Meter The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review Readers AMRs to supplement half-hourly monitoring of operations and Group Finance Directors report provide of electricity supplies at 97% of our Leisure Division further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during businesses.
Installation of AMRs is an initial step in 2009 and prospects for the Group.
full participation in the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme: Donations We recognise that lasting change in energy consumption No donations for political purposes have been directly made by the Group will require changes in behaviour for by the Company during the year.
Charitable events, fund our whole team.
The provision of accurate and timely raising and sponsorship are organised by restaurants for management information covering energy consumption organisations in their locality as described above.
will become an essential tool supporting the change.
A web-based energy-information portal to provide real time Creditor payment policy consumption data to restaurants and our operators has The Companys policy is to agree the terms of payments with been developed in association with our energy consultants its suppliers as and when a trading relationship is established.
and will be launched into the business in 2010: and The Company ensures that the terms of payment are clear A competitive trial of building management systems is and its policy is to abide by the agreed terms, provided the underway at a sample of our Frankie & Bennys sites.
At 27 December 2009 the The systems allow for remote monitoring of equipment Company had no trade creditors.
The Group had an use and energy consumption and may facilitate increased average of 41 days 2008: 45 days purchases outstanding savings in consumption while supporting efficient in trade creditors.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 27 Report of the Directors continued Capital risk management After the impact of the interest rate swaps, the average rate The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able of interest charged during the year on the Groups debt was to continue as a going concern while looking to maximise 3.56% 2008: 5.64%, and the average year-end rate was returns to shareholders.
The capital structure of the Group 4.06% 2008: 2.10%.
On 2009 results, net interest was consists of equity comprising issued share capital, reserves covered 16.0 times 2008: 10.2 times by profit before tax, and retained earnings, debt, finance leases and cash and interest and non-trading items.
Based on year end debt cash equivalents.
The Group monitors its capital structure and profits for 2009, a 1% rise in interest rates would on a regular basis through cash flow projections and reduce profits before tax and non-trading items by 0.5% consideration of the cost of financing its capital.
2008: 0.6% and interest cover would reduce to 14.9 times 2008: 9.7 times.
In December 2007 the Group completed a refinancing exercise.
As part of this the Group has externally imposed At 27 December 2009 the Group had gross borrowings capital requirements.
The Group has a 120m revolving attracting interest including overdraft of 70m 2008: 85m facility in place until December 2012 and a 10m overdraft and cash balances of 2.8m 2008: 5.5m.
Under the terms of the 120m revolving facility the Group is required to comply with its financing covenants Annual General Meeting whereby net interest charges must be covered by at least A separate Circular is included with the mailing of the Annual four times by EBITDA and net debt must not exceed three Report to shareholders setting out the resolutions to be voted times EBITDA.
These covenants are tested twice annually on at the Annual General Meeting, which is to take place at and are monitored on a regular basis.
During 2009 the 11am on 6 May 2010 at the offices of Maclay Murray & Spens Group remained within its external limits throughout the year.
LLP, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5AB.
Financial risk management The Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put The Board of The Restaurant Group plc regularly reviews the to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting are in the financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated best interests of shareholders and, accordingly, recommends therewith.
The Group does not use complex financial that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the instruments, and where financial instruments are used it is for Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial reducing interest rate risk.
The Group does not use derivative shareholdings in the Company.
financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from retained earnings and bank Auditors borrowings including an overdraft facility.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors, and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual In addition to the primary financial instruments, the Group General Meeting for their reappointment.
also has other financial instruments such as debtors, prepayments, trade creditors and accruals that arise directly Directors responsibility statement from the Groups operations.
Further information is provided The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: in note 24 to the accounts.
1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Effective from 16 January 2006, the Group entered into a applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view three year interest rate swap, for an initial notional amount of of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the 20m rising to 50m from 18 April 2006 until 16 January Company and Group: and 2008, when it reduced to 30m until 16 January 2009, at 2. the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executive Officers which date it terminated.
The fixed rate for the duration of review of operations, Group Finance Directors report the three years was 4.695% plus margin.
and report of the Directors include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Effective from 18 January 2008, the Group entered into a position of the Company and Group, together with a further three year interest rate swap for a notional amount of description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced.
25m, from 18 January 2008 to 18 January 2011 at a fixed rate of 4.92% plus margin.
On 8 February 2010 this swap By Order of the Board, was terminated on payment of 1.0m.
Robert Morgan Effective from 16 January 2009, the Group entered into a Company Secretary further two interest rate swaps: a two year interest rate swap 3 March 2010 for a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.70% plus margin and a three year interest rate swap for a notional amount of 20m at a rate of 2.975% plus margin.
28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009
