Business Review Beverage Cans Rexam is a global leader in beverage cans.
The beverage can industry is well consolidated and has high barriers to entry.
There are three global players.
Our Beverage Cans business is essentially a regional business operating on a global scale.
In general, our plants are located close to our customers to minimise logistics costs.
Our main operations are in Europe, North America and South America.
Our market shares in these regions are 46%, 23% and 58% respectively.
We also have plants in China and India and joint ventures in Guatemala and South Korea.
Beverage cans are made from aluminium or steel.
They are a popular form of beverage packaging throughout the world.
They are the most lightweight, high performance beverage packaging container available today and uniquely sustainable being 100% recyclable and the metal 100% reusable.
They are, in fact, the most recycled type of beverage packaging in the world.
We are confident of their future in an increasingly environmentally conscious world.
In addition to their environmental credentials, consumers appreciate their lightness, the ease of refrigeration and the fact that they keep contents fresh and carbonated.
Beverage producers like cans because they are quick to fill, maintain product integrity and are easy and efficient to transport.
They are effective in moving volume especially in multi pack formats and their smooth metallic surfaces provide optimum exposure for a brand.
For retailers, cans are simple to handle and, as they are easily stackable, make effective use of space on supermarket shelves.
Our cans are used for a wide array of beverages including beer, carbonated soft drinks, sports and energy drinks, iced tea and spirit mixers.
Emerging categories such as juice, water, iced coffee, functional drinks and wine are using the can to enter and open up new markets.
The beverage cans share of the global carbonated soft drink pack mix is 20% by volume and 41% by unit.
There was no change compared with 2008.
In beer, the shares are 22% and 31% respectively 2008: 22% and 30%.
The slight increase in can share in beer is attributable to the continued shift from refillable and non refillable glass.
Beverage Cans represents 74% of ongoing Group sales and 70% of Group underlying operating profit 2008: 72% and 66% respectively.
10 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Beverage Can North America 2009 2008 The beverage can market in North America stabilised in the second Sales 3,573m 3,289m half to its more normal long term trend, leaving a 1% decline for the Underlying operating profit 310m 306m year as a whole.
Rexams total volumes for the year declined 3%.
Return on sales 8.7% 9.3% Our 24oz can continued to perform well with volumes up 7% benefiting from continued growth in iced teas and beer which favour Beverage Cans proved to be relatively resilient in the face of the this size of can.
Our standard can volumes declined 5% primarily global recession.
Reported sales grew 9% chiefly due to favourable owing to our greater exposure to premium brands as consumers foreign exchange translation.
moved to own label products.
Excluding the effect of pass through of lower raw material costs, The restructuring programme announced in the second half of 2008 organic sales were flat as pricing benefits in Europe and North is on track to deliver around 20m in anticipated savings in 2010.
America and volume growth in South America were offset by weaker The Oklahoma facility, which was the final element of the plant volumes in parts of the European business and the North American reorganisation, was closed at the start of July 2009.
reduced our 12oz can making capacity in North America by 15% Organic operating profit fell 10%.
Cost savings in the European and reduced our headcount by around 270 people.
and North American businesses and the increased volumes in South Beverage Can South America America, particularly Brazil, were cancelled out by the decline in South America maintained its growth trajectory.
We delivered strong volumes in European specialty cans, and by the effect of the volume growth driven by Brazil and Chile where consumer behaviour economic decline in Russia.
As a result, margins also fell.
has been largely unaffected by the global economic downturn.
Beverage Can Europe & Asia Overall our volumes grew 9% with standard cans up 3%.
Our own Industry volumes in Europe were weaker than expected.
As a whole, standard can volumes are almost maximised by current capacity the European beverage can market declined 3% with beer accounting constraints.
We are to re-open the Pouso Alegre plant in Minas for the majority of the decline.
We indicated last year that specialty Gerais.
It will have a capacity of 800m standard cans and will cans were untried in a recession and, indeed, they proved less be ready for the final quarter of 2010. resilient than standard cans.
Specialty can volumes in South America grew by more than 50%, Volumes in the Russian market, which dropped dramatically in the albeit from a low base.
They continued to increase their penetration second half of 2008, continued to decline and did not stabilise until amongst all drinks categories owing to strong market growth as the final quarter of the year, finishing 26% down on 2008. well as the successful launch of Rexams Sleek can in the region.
Specialty cans now account for 15% of our total volume in South Our own European beverage can volumes were down 9% reflecting America compared with 11% in 2008. our greater exposure to Russia and specialty cans.
Excluding Russia, our volumes of standard cans were broadly flat with a good performance especially in the Scandinavian markets.
Our total specialty can volumes were down 14% as consumers moved away from premium priced beverages in cans and customers launched fewer new products.
The closure of two plants in Russia and France will reduce our cost base and cut our European beverage can making capacity by 7% creating a more favourable balance between demand and the location of our capacity.
