Business Review As in previous years, packaging for food and for beverages were The global consumer packaging market the two largest end-use markets in 2009 accounting for nearly 70% of sales.
Packaging for healthcare and personal care applications, This review is based on a number of external two other key areas for Rexam, made up more than 10% of global sources such as PIRA International and Euromonitor consumer packaging sales.
International, an independent market research Reduced consumer spending was registered in all end-use markets.
Whilst the value of healthcare sales remained broadly flat and those group.
It also draws on other research and our for food declined slightly, consumer spending on non-essentials such own in-house business intelligence resources.
as cosmetics and personal care products slowed dramatically.
It briefly examines the state of the global consumer However, over the period 2009 to 2014, cosmetics packaging is forecast to register the highest growth in value of 4% pa, along with packaging market, the relative positions of the packaging for healthcare products.
two materials that we use, metal and plastics, and Plastic packaging also looks at a number of trends that may have In terms of packaging materials on a global basis, plastic accounted an influence on our end use markets and therefore for close to 40% of all global packaging sales, the largest share of the market.
Rigid plastic packaging, Rexams area of focus, is opportunities for packaging companies.
expected to be the fastest growing plastics type during the period The global financial crisis severely tested the resilience of the 2009 to 2014 with a predicted average annual growth rate of 4%.
Global market value shrunk Growth will be driven mainly by the growing popularity of singleby 3% to US$380bn as a result of reduced consumer spending on serve packaging.
Plastics will also continue to benefit from advances packaged goods.
Consumption levels, however, did not decline.
in material properties which are facilitating the substitution of Although the total spend dropped, consumers continued to purchase traditional packaging materials, predominantly glass.
similar levels of packaged food and beverages in terms of units but Beverage cans sought out cheaper options.
PIRA forecasts that the industrys sales On a global basis, beverage cans accounted for 6% of the consumer value will recover in 2010 and is expected to grow at an average packaging market value in 2009.
Beverage can consumption annual rate of 3% over the next five years to reach US$440bn showed positive growth driven by the emerging markets of South by 2014.
America, Asia and the Middle East.
This offset the sharp drop in Eastern Europe and especially Russia where the impact of the downturn has been more severe and has had a more dramatic effect on consumer habits.
In Europe excluding Russia, beverage can consumption was broadly flat.
Meanwhile in the US, overall Consumer packaging market value CAGR 2009-14 by material can consumption declined by around 1%.
In all developed markets, consumption of cans for carbonated soft drinks, the largest category for beverage cans, reported a decline.
Beer in beverage cans continued to grow in most regions.
After a year of downward 1 Rigid plastics 4.0% pressure on industry value, PIRA expects beverage can sales 2 Flexible plastics 3.8% to grow globally by 2% pa to the end of 2014.
3 Glass 2.4% 4 Paper and board 2.3% In developed countries, beverage can growth will be driven by the 5 Other metal 1.9% increasing use of innovative applications such as coloured ends, new 6 Beverage cans 1.6% coatings and new sizes, and by promoting the use of beverage cans 7 Others 0.4% in new segments such as wine, juice, dairy and water.
In emerging markets, the beverage can will continue to pick up momentum as 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 brewers and fillers exploit the advantages of the beverage can to help stimulate domestic demand as consumers in these markets CAGR 2009-14: 3%.
Source: PIRA International 2009 excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
Consumer behaviour and trends Key trends are exerting powerful influences on consumers lives Consumer packaging market value by material 2009 across many different industries, social classes and age groups.
Trend cycles are emerging more rapidly as a result of economic 7 6 volatility, technological progress and a growing willingness to 1 Paper and board 34% accept new ideas.
5 2 Rigid plastics 27% 1 3 Glass 11% 4 4 Flexible plastics 10% 5 Other metal 9% 6 Beverage cans 6% 3 7 Others 3% 2 Source: PIRA International 2009 excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
20 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Changes in consumer behaviour Consumer packaging market value by end use 2009 In 2009, there was a noticeable switch from premium to economy brands or private own label products in many areas.
However, in some mature markets, consumers were more selective, continuing to 5 1 Food 50% purchase high end products in some categories, such as anti-ageing 2 Beverages 19% creams or organic foods, but switching to cheaper options in others.
3 Healthcare 6% In cosmetics, most of the prestige brands showed themselves to be 4 4 Cosmetics 5% 1 comparatively resilient to the downturn.
In conjunction with this, there 5 Other 20% has been a polarisation of the masstige market the middle ground 3 between the mass and prestige markets with brands either repositioning themselves towards the premium or the lower end of the market.
2 Asia and Latin America made great strides as luxury brand markets and there was substantial growth in demand among the aspirational, brand focused, middle income classes.
Retail formats for the price conscious consumer, such as hypermarkets and discounters, outperformed department stores, supermarkets and Consumer packaging market value by geographic region 2009 small grocers, who were unable to offer competitive prices.
According to Euromonitor, these types of outlets will continue to see 4 the largest gains in retail value in the medium term as consumers 1 Europe 36% worldwide seek out better value for money.
2 Asia and rest of world 32% 1 Health, well being and convenience 3 3 North America 28% Consumers focus on health and wellness maintained its momentum 4 South America 4% in 2009 supported by changing demographics and public health concerns.
The need for convenience also continued to pervade all aspects of peoples lives.
In a world where time is an increasingly precious 2 commodity, consumers are seeking out more efficient and effective products that help to free up and maximise leisure time.
Consumers are highly influenced by the convenience attributes of a product Source: PIRA International 2009 excludes secondary bulk and industrial packaging.
whether it be simplicity or multiplicity of use, ease of storage, portability or even features that help to save time when making Plastic resins that are easier to recycle and packaging with clearer purchasing decisions, such as colour coding.
communication on how to recycle are other examples of what can be done.
Much has been done to make Staying at home packaging lighter.
In general, the average weight of plastic One other trend, especially noticeable in Western Europe and packaging has dropped by more than a quarter since 1997, and the US, is the reduction in on trade sales, i. e. sales of food and items such as blow moulded plastic bottles are 60% lighter than in beverages in restaurants and bars.
The global downturn has led to the 1970s.
This means plastic packaging has strong fuel efficiency an intensification of what is described as nesting or cocooning, benefits when transporting products.
terms used to describe the phenomenon of people spending more time at home with friends and family and less time socialising outside The beverage can celebrates 75 years as a package in 2010. the home.
Attempting to take advantage of this trend, many The amount of material used in the manufacture of an average can companies are now making products that replicate the restaurant or has been reduced by 80% during that time.
The greatest advances bar experience at home which opens up opportunities for innovative have come in the last 20 years and the work to reduce material packaging solutions.
Beverage cans are highly recyclable and can be recycled repeatedly without loss of performance.
The more people Sustainability recycle, the more sustainable the can becomes as a package.
In the Contrary to many predictions, the concerns about the sustainability of case of aluminium cans, the energy used to make cans from recycled modern society have not abated in the wake of the global economic aluminium is only 5% of that used to make a can from virgin raw downturn and consumers seem to have maintained their desire for material so recycling makes real environmental sense.
There has been an increase in brands and organisations, such as Fairtrade, promoting features such as organic Prospects of market recovery sourcing, carbon neutral manufacturing or eco-friendly packaging.
Overall, recovery in developed markets is expected to be gradual.
Consumers are being careful with their spending owing to stagnant Consumers, particularly in the developed world, remain concerned incomes, high levels of debt and widespread unemployment.
about climate change and sustainability.
They are also concerned Emerging markets are expected to rebound more quickly and appear about the impact that packaging and waste may have on the poised to lead a global recovery.
PIRA predicts that all regions will environment.
Packaging is vital to everyday life so there are return to growth between 2009 and 2014, led by South America important opportunities for packaging companies to improve the and the combined region of Asia, Middle East and Africa with a environmental profile of their products by increasing recyclability as 5% pa increase in terms of value.
well as compatibility with existing waste management schemes.
The challenge is to preserve and enhance the packagings functionality whilst doing this.
