Business Review Plastic Packaging Plastic Packaging focuses primarily on the value added and generally faster growing segments of rigid plastic packaging.
The segments in which we have chosen to operate are technologically advanced: significant intellectual property and product innovation are key to many of the products.
The rigid plastic packaging market remains fragmented with the top 10 manufacturers accounting for just 18% of the market.
PIRA International, a provider of business intelligence to the packaging industry, estimates that the rigid plastics market declined slightly in value terms in 2009, but is expected to be the fastest growing segment within plastic packaging.
Rexam offers its customers a global manufacturing and sales capability.
The three divisions that make up the sector share a number of customers and are united by common injection moulding and other technologies and a focus on intellectual property, innovation and operational excellence.
Products include spray samplers, lipstick and mascara cases, compacts, closures for fragrances, lotions and beverages, fine mist and foam pumps, high barrier food containers and sophisticated drug delivery devices.
Plastic Packaging represents 26% of Group sales and 30% of Group underlying operating profit 2008: 28% and 34% respectively.
12 Rexam Annual Report 2009 We acted swiftly to the drop in demand with cost saving initiatives, 2009 2008 including plant closures, plant restructuring, headcount reductions, Sales 1,241m 1,273m salary freezes and furloughs.
In the US, we announced the closure Underlying operating profit 130m 157m of a plant in Pompano, FL, in June and the sale of the Sussex, WI, Return on sales 10.5% 12.3% plant to its management in December.
Additional restructuring in the US, included the closure of the Holden, MA, plant, the relocation of The challenging global economic environment had a considerable the Innovation Centre to Buffalo Grove, Il, and the closure of a sales effect on Plastic Packaging.
Whilst the Healthcare division remained office in Purchase, NY.
In Europe, following negotiations with local resilient throughout the year, the Personal Care and Closures divisions works councils, we are undertaking a significant restructuring of the reported significant volume declines.
This was due initially to Personal Care plants in Annecy and Simandre in France.
customer destocking and subsequently to lower consumer demand.
There were some signs of stabilisation in trading conditions in the Closures second half and we began to benefit from the cost reduction actions Closures was also severely impacted by the effects of the recession.
taken earlier in the year.
Full year volumes declined significantly and continuing reduced consumer demand for bottled beverages in the US did not show On a reported basis, Plastic Packaging sales were down 3% any recovery in the second half in what is a more enduring trend.
The benefit of foreign exchange translation did not Consumer demand for high barrier food products showed signs compensate a fall in organic sales which came from significant of improvement in the second half.
volume declines in Personal Care and Closures as well as the effect of the pass through of lower resin costs to customers.
Underlying Cost saving initiatives were implemented including headcount pricing remained broadly flat despite pricing pressure.
In the US, the closure of the Hamlet, NC, plant was announced in October whilst the Hot Springs, AR, plant underwent Organic operating profit was down 30% as cost and efficiencies consolidation.
The sale in June of the Deeside business in the UK and the benefit of foreign exchange were unable to offset the impact marked our exit from the non high barrier food container market.
of the negative volumes and the change in product mix.
In February 2010 we announced the closure of our Constantine, MI, plant.
This will incur an exceptional charge of some 13m this year The plant closures and restructuring of the business detailed earlier at a cash cost of 6m and result in savings of 2m in 2010 and have led to a 5% reduction in our overall injection moulding capacity.
This will not impair our ability to benefit from the upturn when it comes.
We have sufficient capacity to grow with the market.
Healthcare Healthcare remained largely resilient to the current economic Resin costs remained below the levels experienced in 2008.
In environment as the products rely less on consumers disposable around 80% of our sales contracts, the resin costs are passed through income.
Volumes increased slightly on the back of continued strong to our customers, so minimising our exposure to the movement in resin growth in our pharmaceutical packaging business as new devices prices.
In addition, we have made further progress to hedge future resin came into production, although this was partially offset by reductions usage where customer contracts do not contain terms to allow resin in the primary packaging and prescription parts of the business.
pass through, thus reducing our exposure to future resin price rises.
The Healthcare division restructured during the year bringing the Personal Care three separate businesses into one central organisation.
The aim is to Personal Care was impacted by a slowdown in the fragrance and reduce costs and continue to leverage synergies in quality, technology, cosmetics market in both the US and Europe resulting in a significant operations and sales and strengthen relationships with customers.
The stabilisation in performance in the second half was the result of a strong demand for foam pumps following the In December we announced the closure of the Nashua, NH, plant H1N1 outbreak, improved demand for lotion products as well as as part of the alignment of our manufacturing capabilities across our some new product launches as customers confidence returned.
In general, customers worked to smaller batch sizes and shorter order commitments whilst retailers reduced stock holding and expected suppliers to be more flexible and to be able to cope with any fluctuations in demand.
