Directors Report The directors present their Report, the audited Group consolidated Directors financial statements and the audited Company financial statements The Board of directors during the year ended 31 December 2009 for the year ended 31 December 2009. and at the date of this Report is set out on page 31.
The Business Review, and all other sections of the Annual Report to Graham Chipchase, an executive director and the Group Director which cross reference is made, are incorporated into this Directors Plastic Packaging, was appointed Chief Executive designate with Report by reference.
effect from 16 November 2009 and succeeded Leslie Van fide Walle who retired as Chief Executive Officer on 31 December 2009. Business Review A review of the strategy and performance of the Group, including Bill Barker, an executive director and the Group Director Beverage the financial performance, can be found in the Business Review on Cans, resigned from the Board on 7 January 2009.
The principal activities and financial summary are set Buzzacott, a non executive director, retired from the Board on out on pages 1 to 3 with the key performance indicators on page 7.
A description of the key Group risk factors is reviewed on In December 2008, the Association of British Insurers ABI issued pages 22 and 23. guidance to the effect that, where a company issues more than one The Annual Report 2009 has been prepared for, and only for, third of its issued share capital in connection with a rights issue its the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
members may expect that all directors of the company wishing to The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not remain in office will stand for re-election at the annual general meeting accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this following the decision to make the issue.
Therefore, in accordance document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such with best practice following the rights issue in July 2009, all the responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report current directors will stand for re-election at the AGM 2010. may contain statements which are not based on current or historical The Boards recommendations for the re-election of all directors can fact and which are forward looking in nature.
These forward looking be found on pages 39 and 40 of the Corporate Governance Report statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of and in the Notice of AGM 2010. preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward looking statements.
Such forward In accordance with section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks and the directors disclose that the Companys Articles of Association uncertainties facing the Group including, without limitation, those Articles govern the appointment and replacement of directors.
risks described in this Annual Report, and other unknown future events The powers given to the directors are contained in the Articles and and circumstances which can cause results and developments to include, subject to relevant legislation and authority being given to differ materially from those anticipated.
Nothing in this Annual Report the directors by shareholders in general meeting, authorisation to the should be construed as a profit forecast.
Company to issue and buy back its own shares.
The Company annually seeks the authority of shareholders for the exercise by the Dividends directors of these powers.
The Articles, which may only be amended Subject to shareholder approval, the directors have proposed a 2009 with shareholders approval in accordance with relevant legislation, final dividend of 8.0p per share.
A 2009 interim dividend was not can be found on the Companys website.
declared and the total dividend for the year ended 31 December 2009 is therefore 8.0p per share 2008: 18.7p restated.
The service contracts of the executive directors and the letters of appointment for the non executive directors are available for Dividend on shares inspection at the registered office of the Company, and will be Dividend Ex dividend Record Payment available at the AGM 2010. per share p date date date 2009 final 8.0 05.05.10 07.05.10 03.06.10 Directors interests None of the directors had any interest during or at the end of Principal acquisitions and disposals the year in any contract of significance in relation to the business There have been no significant acquisitions or disposals of Group of the Company or its subsidiary undertakings.
Full details of the share interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and other interests of those directors holding office on 31 December 2009, including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the Remuneration Report.
32 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Share capital Significant agreements 2 The Company had 876,829,017 ordinary shares of 64 7p each Rexam has a number of commercial agreements which are essential shares in issue at 31 December 2009.
At the AGM 2009, to the Groups business, as discussed in the Key Group risk factors shareholders approved an increase in the authorised share capital section of the Business Review on pages 22 and 23.
Mitigation to 750,000,000. arrangements are in place to safeguard, as far as possible, the Groups business in the event of the unexpected termination or On 29 July 2009 the Company announced a 4 for 11 rights issue amendment of such agreements.
and under the authority given to the directors at the AGM 2009, 233,799,459 new shares were issued at 150p per share rights The Company is also required to disclose any significant agreements issue.
The rights issue raised 334m net of costs.
Full details of the that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the rights issue and the Companys authorised and issued share capital, Company.
In the event of a takeover bid, some commercial together with details of the rights and restrictions attaching to the agreements allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the shares, can be found in note 27 to the consolidated financial arrangements on a change of control of the Company.
has committed debt facilities all of which are directly or indirectly subject to change of control provisions albeit the facilities do not Purchase of own shares necessarily require mandatory prepayment on a change of control.
At the AGM 2009, shareholders passed a special resolution renewing the authority to the Company, in accordance with the At 31 December 2009 the facilities subject to these provisions were: Articles and relevant institutional guidelines, to purchase a maximum Debt facilities number of its own shares in the market.
Notes Amount Maturity No shares have been purchased in the market, nor has any contract Subordinated bond i 750m June 2067 been made to purchase shares under the previous or existing US public bond $550m June 2013 authorities from 1 January 2009 to the date of this Report.
The US private placement $225m June 2013 directors are seeking to renew the authority at the AGM 2010.
Medium term note 690m March 2013 Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM 2010.
Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 50m December 2012 Share purchase authority Bilateral credit facility, multi currency $161m July 2012 AGM 2010 AGM 2009 Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 100m July 2012 Number of shares Proposed Approved Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 18m July 2012 10% of issued share capital 87.68m 64.29m Revolving credit facility forward start November 2010, multi currency ii 647m July 2012 Substantial shareholdings Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 50m July 2011 At the date of this Report, the Company had received notification Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 95m April 2011 from the following financial institutions of their and their clients interests in the voting rights of the Company, in accordance with Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 50m March 2011 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Services Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 40m March 2011 Authority, which are required to be disclosed under section 992 of Revolving credit facility, multi currency ii 775m November 2010 the Companies Act 2006.
The number of shares and percentage Bilateral credit facility, multi currency 20m November 2010 interests are as disclosed at the date on which the interests were i Swapped from euro to US$ denomination.
ii The existing 775m revolving credit facility will be replaced by the 647m forward start Interests of 3% or more in issued share capital revolving credit facility in November 2010.
Notes Shares % Details of the service contracts of the executive directors and the Wellington Management Co LLP i 69,085,426 7.88 letters of appointment for the non executive directors together with the BlackRock Inc 44,238,302 5.05 Companys policy on how a change of control will affect the service Legal & General Group Plc 34,660,260 3.95 contracts are summarised in the Remuneration Report.
Norges Bank 27,243,966 3.11 The trustee of the Rexam Employee Share Trust holds shares in order i The number of shares and percentage interest was disclosed to the Company in a notification to satisfy awards under the Rexam employee share plans.
If an offer requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. is made to acquire the Companys shares, the trustee is not obliged to accept or reject any such offer in respect of any shares which are Information provided to Rexam pursuant to the DTR is publicly at that time subject to options which are outstanding, or which have available via the Regulatory Information Services and on the at that time otherwise been allocated to or earmarked for Companys website.
However, the trustee shall have regard to Financial risk management the interests of the beneficiaries and shall have the power to consult The financial risk management and objectives of the Group and the them to obtain their views on such offer and, subject to the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk foregoing, may consider any recommendations made to it by the are set out in the Business Review and note 24 to the consolidated Company but shall not be obliged to comply with such financial statements.
The Company has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in the form permitted by the Companies Act 2006 to the directors of Rexam Pension Trustees Limited, the Trustee to the Rexam Pension Plan.
The indemnity remains in force at the date of this Report.
Rexam Annual Report 2009 33 Directors Report Going concern Donations The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Charitable donations made by the Group in 2009 amounted to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in 381,000 as shown in the table.
No donations were made for the Business Review on pages 6 to 29.
The financial position of the political purposes.
Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Charitable donations also detailed in the Business Review on pages 14 to 19.
In addition, 2009 2008 notes 22, 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements UK 38,000 61,000 include the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial Rest of world excluding UK 343,000 536,000 instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk The UK businesses made donations to various charities and sporting and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, as detailed on Rest of world donations included support of scholarship programmes pages 14 to 19 of the Business Review, together with established and educational opportunities for young people.
They also included agreements with a number of customers and suppliers across different donations to healthcare organisations, hospitals and local community geographic areas and markets.
During 2009, the Group accessed initiatives, principally in Russia, the US and Italy.
Rexam has undertaken the equity markets to raise 334m net of costs through the rights to match employees donations to Direct Relief International, a US issue and the bank debt market to both increase its committed bank non profit organisation, that will provide medical aid, supplies and facilities and also refinance a substantial portion of its 2010 maturities.
equipment to the victims of the recent earthquake in Haiti.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite the current economic Employees environment which increases risks and uncertainties.
The Rexam Way culture is a fundamental characteristic of the Companys day to day activities and distinguishes the Company The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied as a market leader and an employer of choice.
Trust, Teamwork, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Continuous Improvement, and Recognition are the Groups chosen continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this core values which continue to involve, inform and motivate employees reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing to work towards the vision of making Rexam the best global consumer the consolidated and Company financial statements.
In 2009 the Company has built upon the Research and development success of the Rexam Academy, extending regional programmes The Group aims to keep at the forefront of all relevant product, to facilitate performance and development management throughout process and system developments in the markets in which it operates.
the Group and also to strengthen succession planning.
The Talent Rexam has internal and customer innovation programmes focused Management and Horizon Programs continue as key programmes on creative packaging solutions and their successful implementation.
whose aims are to raise overall employee performance and identify These programmes have resulted in a number of new consumer and systematically develop employee talent.
Additionally, the online packaging products which include Rexams Crystal Transparency, an integrated Performance Development System launched during 2008 innovative plastic material which looks like glass, airless dispensing and which measures leadership practices and business objectives, tubes and airless, ergonomically advanced dispensers.
Fusion, an as well as personal development and individual potential, has been aluminium bottle developed over recent years, is expected to go into more widely extended in 2009.
Rexam people are key in helping full production at the Rexam plant in the Czech Republic.
The to deliver the Groups vision of being the best global consumer Groups expenditure on research and development during the year packaging company.
Further information on the Groups training amounted to 20m 2008: 19m.
and development programmes can be found in the Business Review on page 28.
Payments to suppliers The Groups operating businesses are responsible for the terms and The Group has active policies of equal opportunity ranging from conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their selection and recruitment to training and development which meet the suppliers.
It is Group policy to agree the terms of payment and make needs of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are given payments to suppliers in accordance with those terms, provided that full consideration for employment and subsequent training including, suppliers have complied with all relevant terms and conditions.
if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis The Company had 11 days 2008: 17 days purchases outstanding of their aptitudes and abilities.
at 31 December 2009 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers.
34 Rexam Annual Report 2009 Communication with employees has an important focus through team Directors statement briefings where employees can participate and give their views on Each person who is a director of the Company at the date of any aspect of the Groups business.
During 2009 the Chief Executive approval of this Report confirms that: Officer issued online updates to employees through the Groups so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit intranet and answered questions from employees through his weblog.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Groups full and half year results announcements are also presented on video made available via the intranet.
At the each director individually has taken all the steps that they ought to subsequent team briefings employees are given the opportunity to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant comment on the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are performance.
The Groups global intranet is an immediate source of aware of that information.
At regular intervals an electronic news Auditors bulletin is produced and distributed globally to employees, In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, supplementing the monthly communications produced by the a resolution for the re-appointment of  LLP businesses to keep their employees informed of what is happening will be proposed at the AGM 2010. in and around their sector.
Annual General Meeting 2010 The Rexam European Forum REF is a joint employee representative The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on 6 May 2010 and management body established in 1998.
It was created for the at Church House, Deans Yard, London SW1, details of which can exchange of information and dialogue concerning issues which may be found in the Notice of AGM 2010. impact Rexams employees within the European Economic Area.
The REF holds an annual meeting attended by the Chief Executive and other senior management.
A smaller coordinating committee On behalf of the Board drawn from representatives within the REF meets quarterly to discuss David Gibson organisational issues as well as any exceptional business issues Company Secretary which may arise and which may have an impact on Rexams 17 February 2010 European employees.
During 2009, the REF also established a series of joint working groups, made up of REF representatives and managers, who advise and make recommendations on the implementation of Group activities such as Behaviour Based Safety, a programme to reinforce safe behaviours and reduce accidents in the work place.
The Company has well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership, as described in the Remuneration Report.
Competitive retirement and benefit packages are offered and, subject to the culture, market practices and regulations in the countries where we carry out our business, benefits may be provided in whole or in part by the government, private or supplementary Rexam sponsored programmes.
Financial details of the Groups worldwide retirement benefit obligations can be found in the Business Review and note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Corporate governance statement The information that fulfils the requirements for this corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the DTR can be found in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 43.
Corporate responsibility Information relating to the Companys policies towards environmental, social and governance areas of corporate responsibility CR can be found in the Corporate responsibility section of the Business Review and in the CR section on the Rexam website.
