senior management team Peter Brooks-Johnson Peter Armstrong Agency Director New Homes Director Peter joined Rightmove Partnership, working Peter joined Rightmove Prior to Rightmove, in 2006 and is with clients such as BP, in 2003 as one of the Peter worked in sales responsible for the Marks & Spencer and first handful of people and sales management, Estate Agency business, the Woolwich.
developing the New latterly in directory marketing, the website Homes business, a advertising with Yell.
and the proposition to business which he has agency customers run since May 2006. including the development of advertising products.
Peter was formerly a management consultant with Accenture and The Berkeley Scott Marshall Simon Hickie Finance Director Human Resources Rightmove.
co. uk Director Scott joined Rightmove company for the Group.
Simon joined Rightmove Bloombergs financial in 2001 as Finance Scott is a director of in 2007 following seven research operation Director and was Holiday Lettings years at Bloomberg covering new debt and Company Secretary until Holdings Limited.
Scott LP where he was equity security issuance the IPO in 2006.
Scott qualied as a Chartered responsible for HR and M&A activity in led the preparations for Accountant in Australia operations across Europe.
the oat on the London with Ernst & Young.
Europe, the Middle Stock Exchange in 2006 East and Africa.
Prior and led the 2008 to moving into HR, he Scheme of Arrangement had managed part of project to introduce and list a new holding 18 rightmove plc annual report 2009 Alan Gearing Managing Director Miles Shipside Rightmove Property Commercial Director Services Miles joined Rightmove the industry on how the Alan joined Rightmove in Management Group as a founding director in internet is transforming 2006 developing new property disposal and 2001 bringing 20 years home moving and the sources of revenue maintenance services of experience at senior state of the housing separate from property and The Inventory levels in independent market.
He was Exchange online estate agency and with as a Chartered Surveyor appointed as Managing inventory and property Halifax Estate Agency.
Director of Rightmoves inspection and was He has responsibility Automated Valuation Managing Director of for estate agency and Model division in July a 50 branch estate media relations, 2008.
Prior to Rightmove agency chain.
specialising in advising he was a founder of both The Asset Robyn Perriss Financial Controller Robyn joined Rightmove She was formerly Group in 2007 and has Financial Controller at day-to-day responsibility the online media for the financial business, Auto Trader.
operations, based out She qualied as a of Milton Keynes, as chartered accountant in well as statutory South Africa with KPMG.
reporting and the treasury function.
