EJSFDUPST BOE PGGJDFST Scott Forbes Ed Williams Chairman Managing Director Scott was appointed nearly 30 years headquarters in London similar roles for other Ed joined Rightmove consulting with Chairman of Rightmove experience in operations, in 1999 and led this companies in other in December 2000 as McKinsey & Co, plc in July 2005.
He is finance and mergers division as Group sectors, including Managing Director at Accenture and also the Chief Executive & acquisitions which Managing Director until National Car Parks its inception.
Appointed of Bridge Capital includes 15 years at he joined Rightmove.
Prior Chairman of Holiday 19 December 2000.
Advisors Ltd which he Cendant Corporation He was Chairman or to his time at Cendant, Lettings Holdings founded in 2007 and which was formerly Chief Executive of Scott was a certied Limited in which was a director of NetJets the largest worldwide various residential public accountant.
Rightmove has a Management Ltd, a provider of residential property and travel Appointed 13 July 2005. two-thirds ownership subsidiary of Berkshire property services.
His prior Hathaway through to Scott established the during his tenure at experience is in business October 2009.
Scott has Cendant international Cendant and held strategy and IT Jonathan Agnew Colin Kemp Ashley Martin Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Jonathan joined the of Nationwide Building Colin was appointed to Contact Centres, and Ashley joined Rightmove He is Finance Director of Board in January 2006 Society, Limit and the Board in July 2007. heading up the Halifax plc in June 2009 as a Rok plc and prior to that as Senior Independent Gerrard Group and has He is Finance and Employee Share non-executive director served as Group Finance Director.
He is Chairman served on the Council Business Performance Services business, and also as Chairman Director of the media of Beazley, LMS Capital, of Lloyds.
Appointed Director for the Halifax administering employee of the Audit Committee, services company, The Cayenne Trust and 16 January 2006.
Community Bank share plans to over 400 where he provides Tempus plc.
Appointed Ashmore Global Chairman of the following the formation UK companies.
Between oversight of the financial 11 June 2009.
Jonathan Remuneration of Lloyds Banking Group January 2005 and reporting practices, Chairman of the Audit was an investment Committee and a in January 2009.
With December 2007, Colin internal control Committee and member banker for over 25 years, member of the Audit over 30 years was managing Director environment and of the Remuneration including being a and Nomination experience in high street of Halifax Estate Agents.
retail banking, Colin has Colin is a Craneld MBA various listed company Morgan Stanley and worked for HBOS and an Associate of the regulations.
He is also Group Chief Executive companies since 1979.
Chartered Institute of a member of the of Kleinwort Benson.
His roles have included Marketing.
He has been Chairman running the Retail 3 July 2007.
16 rightmove plc annual report 2009 Nick McKittrick Liz Taylor Chief Operating Officer & Finance Director Company Secretary Nick joined Rightmove overseeing a trebling of Liz Taylor was appointed was Company Secretary in 2000.
He led the revenue in three years.
Company Secretary of of The Berkeley Group development of In 2009, he was Rightmove plc on 4 July Holdings plc.
Rightmoves original promoted to the role of 2006.
She is a Fellow of website and then went Chief Operating officer the Institute of Chartered on to build the new and Finance Director.
Secretaries and homes, lettings and Before joining the Administrators and has overseas businesses.
Company he worked 20 years company At the start of 2005 Nick in Accenture for eight secretarial experience became the Managing years in the technology across a variety of public Director of the main consulting division.
co. uk Appointed to the Board joining Rightmove, she operating subsidiary on 5 March 2004.
Stephen Shipperley Judy Vezmar Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Stephen joined the Judy is Chief Executive the International group Board on its formation in officer of LexisNexis and their expansion of 2000.
the range of successful 30 years of experience LexisNexis, part online services to over in the property industry.
of the global media 100 countries.
She is He is Group Executive group Reed Elsevier PLC, based in London.
Chairman of Connells is a leading Appointed 16 January Limited, which has worldwide provider of 2006.
Member of the grown to become the content-enabled Audit, Remuneration and second largest estate workow solutions Nomination Committees.
agency business in the designed specifically UK with interests in for professionals in the residential estate agency, legal, risk management, surveying, financial corporate, government, services, relocations law enforcement, and conveyancing.
accounting and academic Appointed markets.
Judy is 30 June 2000. responsible for 17 rightmove plc annual report 2009
