Understanding our business We understand the cyclical nature of our business and we have structured our business to maximise the opportunities available at different stages of the cycle.
Recovery Top of the Rate recovery market Improving utilisation High utilisation Capex investment high High rate Fleet lead time management High margins Declining leverage Moderate capex Organic growth Minimum leverage Take advantage of those Optimise opportunity who have just survived Prepare balance sheet for downturn managing the cycle Downturn Low utilisation Inevitable pressure on rate Market share decisions Low capex High cash generation Cost reduction vs recovery preparation 19 bu siness and financial review continued our strategy The stability of our debt structure has been demonstrated during these difficult times and reflects our long term cyclical planning.
Geoff Drabble Ashtead aims to be a leader in the global We are con dent that these actions make us amongst the best positioned of our peer group to survive the coming months.
Key to execution of our equipment rental business delivering good strategy at the moment is the planning we are undertaking to capitalise returns for our investors through building on the opportunities presented by the cycle for both organic growth from winning market share from less well positioned competitors and strong relationships with our customers possibly also acquisitive growth as and when suitably priced, distressed and delivering the services they require opportunities arise.
Our ability to do this is enhanced by the conservative balance sheet structure we have maintained whilst the cycle was strong, ef ciently.
In good market conditions we judging our pace of investment in the good years to hold leverage within achieve these objectives by generating our two to three times leverage range.
This balance sheet strength was reinforced further by the manner in which we rapidly lowered investment strong organic growth combined with growth levels to ensure we generated signi cant free cash ow in the year to through acquisition, as well as delivering high April 2009 and throughout the recession.
In weaker Response to the current recession markets, we cease growth investment and In performance terms, the past year was characterised by good rental utilise our cash ow to manage debt levels volumes and pro ts in our first half followed by a rapid decline into recessionary conditions and weak pro tability in the second half.
Although and thereby keep our capital structure solid the pace of decline from still good market volumes last summer into through all parts of the cycle.
recessionary conditions was signi cantly more rapid than has been seen in previous cycles, the market conditions we face and the way our markets A further element of the Groups strategy is its focus on managing and are moving through the cycle are not without precedent.
Consequently, incentivising its human capital to deliver strong returns on investment the way we have responded re ects the exibility inherent in our business from a capital asset base comprising large numbers of individual assets, model and our experience of previous downturns.
as well as the computer systems it has developed to facilitate this.
These skills were first applied successfully in the UK through A-Plant and then in Private non-residential construction was the first of our major markets to the US, where Sunbelt has now grown to be four times larger than A-Plant see a slowdown, particularly amongst the smaller builders.
Sectors which in a substantially larger market.
are most exposed to consumer spending, such as retail, were affected first but the impact is now widespread across all sectors.
The speed of the We describe ourselves as being a late cycle business in that our main end decline in the current cycle is evidenced by the number of private sector market, non-residential construction, is usually one of the last parts of the projects where the decision was taken to stop work mid-project, but many economy to be affected by adverse economic conditions.
This means that more have been postponed or cancelled without work ever having begun.
we have a high degree of visibility of when we are likely to be adversely As usual it will take a return to GDP growth before growth returns but a affected, as the warning signs will have been visible in other parts of the consequence of the rapid slowdown is the large number of projects that economy for some time.
We are therefore able to plan accordingly and we are ready to recommence as soon as developers and nanciers gain the outline below the moves we have made this year to prepare the business necessary con dence to resume development.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 bu siness and financial review continued our strategy We have configured our business to be as efficient as possible we have ensured that we remain positioned to service all our main geographies and markets.
Geoff Drabble Infrastructure work, most of which is publicly nanced, will as usual pay down debt.
Over the year to 30 April 2009, we generated total remain stronger through the cycle with particular areas of strength being cash of 246m and applied 88% to debt pay down with the balance utilities, prisons, schooling and transportation.
Future strength, however, being returned to shareholders through dividends and share buy-backs.
depends on central funding and hence it is helpful that both US and UK All our debt is committed for the long term and structured to remain administrations are committed to delivering public sector investment to covenant free, enabling us to get on with running the business unimpeded improve ageing infrastructure and support employment.
On the ground, by debt obligations.
More detail on the speci c structure of our debt can however, the fact that this spending is largely delivered by local and not be found on page 31. central government brings uncertainty over which projects will be supported and generates some delay in projects proceeding.
Cost reduction programmes This year we also focused early on preparing the business for a sustained We believe that a combination of financial constraint and uncertain downward economic cycle.
To this end, last autumn, we instigated a cost order books will result in contractors, particularly in the US, increasingly reduction programme to prepare the business for the lower levels of choosing the rental option.
We therefore expect the established trend demand we expect in the coming year.
Combined with our ongoing focus towards increased outsourcing of equipment supply in the US will on operational ef ciency, a key element of this programme has been to accelerate through the cycle.
At the same time our industry remains reduce the size of our rental eets by about 10% in both the UK and US.
fragmented with a number of smaller rental companies surviving on We also merged or shut 100 pro t centres across the Group and reduced leasing finance often with low or zero cost interest rates which historically our workforce by around 14%.
Overall these actions resulted in savings of was provided by the equipment manufacturers.
As this source of finance around 100m compared to last summer in our annualised local currency has become increasingly scarce and substantially more expensive, we cost base.
expect the rental market to consolidate further during the downturn, bene tting the larger, better nanced players such as ourselves.
Critically, in taking rationalisation action, we have ensured that we remain positioned to service all our main geographies and markets when As a result, with strong market positions in both the UK and US, supported the upturn comes.
The one-time exceptional charge incurred in delivering by young eets and sound long term debt facilities, we continue to expect the savings, much of which is non-cash relating to asset impairments that we will emerge from the current downturn with greater market share and future costs on closed properties, was 83m.
Including the proceeds and, in the US, in a market with enhanced rental penetration.
realised from the sale of the surplus equipment, the programme generated Cash generative in tough markets a net cash in ow in the year of around 40m.
The exibility inherent in our business model allows us to focus on Seasonality generating free cash ow.
When the economy is expanding, we utilise this In addition to economic cycles, our business is also subject to signi cant free cash ow to increase investment in our rental fleet to support revenue, uctuations in performance from quarter to quarter as a result of seasonal EBITDA and earnings growth and reduce the age of our rental fleet.
Commercial construction activity tends to increase in the summer favourable economic environment, we reduce the rate at which we invest and during extended periods of mild weather and to decrease in the in new equipment and increase the age of our rental fleet, which winter and during extended periods of inclement weather.
Furthermore, consequently increases free cash ow.
This reduces our economic risk.
due to the incidence of public holidays in the US and the UK, there are Our ability to ex our cash ow through the business cycle is also crucial more billing days in the first half of our financial year than the second half for the ef cient management of our debt and allows us to manage our leading to our revenue normally being higher in the first half.
On a business model according to our position in the economic cycle.
This year, quarterly basis, the second quarter is typically our strongest quarter, with the economy slowing and demand lower than normal, we have followed by the first and then the third and fourth quarters.
We manage reduced our capital expenditure and generated cash which we applied to the business to accommodate these natural annual cycles.
