Overview Strategy A focused and integrated strategy Effective supply chain integration with our Vision Summary operations and Rio Tinto Marine ensures that Rio Tintos vision is to be the global Our vision of being the global mining we meet customer needs and create value for mining leader.
leader means maintaining or achieving ourselves by supplying the right products and sector leadership, including operational Our vision shapes our core objective, which services at the right time to the right place.
excellence, sustainable development, is to maximise total shareholder return by exploration and innovation.
Rio Tinto has a strong reputation for sustainably fi nding, developing, mining and operational excellence and sustainable processing natural resources.
We are well placed to achieve this vision development.
This reputation gives us our through our ownership of some of the worlds To deliver this objective, the Group follows licence to operate, and it is essential that we best assets.
We focus on the development a strategy of investing in and operating uphold it and build upon it.
of Tier 1 orebodies those that will give us large, long term, cost competitive mines and large scale, long term and cost competitive Long term sustainable development is at the businesses, driven not by choice of commodity operations.
This will safeguard our future cash heart of everything we do.
We must build but rather by the quality of each opportunity.
fl ow and ensure we can operate profi tably at upon recent improvements in our safety We have fi five business priorities for 2010 to every stage of the commodity cycle.
performance, and we must also continue, enable us to deliver our strategy and improve The global reach of our operations and and extend, our leadership in areas such as our long term fi financial performance: projects gives us the ability to respond to community and government engagement: Focus on operational delivery rising demand for metals and minerals from biodiversity: and land, carbon, water and developed and emerging economies.
Pursue our growth path use the advantages that our assets bring to Our assets and reputation give us the Complete the iron ore production deliver options for future growth.
capabilities to operate and grow our business joint venture Our diverse portfolio, high quality assets, and on a global scale.
And as we do so, we also Prudent balance sheet management expertise in technology and marketing give have the scope and expertise to bring long us the capability to supply a wide spectrum term benefi ts to our local communities and Strengthen our relationship with China of customers and markets.
We can supply the host countries.
Given our geographical reach, strong assets raw materials needed for basic infrastructure and reputation we believe we are well and the high performance mineral grades Priorities for 2010 positioned for success.
needed for high tech applications.
This The Group is focusing on fi five business gives us exposure to markets worldwide at priorities, which are the pathway to delivering various stages of the development cycle.
By our strategy and achieving our vision.
understanding what our customers value, we develop offerings which meet their needs and generate superior returns for Rio Tinto.
Core objective Strategy Priorities for 2010 To maximise total shareholder return To invest in and operate large, long We have fi five business priorities by sustainably fi nding, developing, term, cost competitive mines and to enable us to deliver our mining and processing natural businesses, driven not by choice of strategy and improve our long resources.
commodity but rather by the quality term fi financial performance.
These priorities will support our vision to be the global mining leader.
12 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information Focus on operational delivery Complete the iron ore production Sustainable development joint venture We will pursue cost reductions and productivity improvements in order to A key achievement this year would be Our commitment to sustainable strengthen our focus on operational delivery.
the completion of the proposed Western development underpins our vision Australian Iron Ore production joint venture and every area of our business.
It is an A key activity will be the continued with BHP Billiton.
After signing the binding essential factor in maintaining and transformation of the Aluminium business.
agreements in December 2009, covering all extending our licence to operate.
This Rio Tinto Alcan is now sharing common safety, internal compliance and human commitment provides opportunities aspects of how the joint venture will operate resource systems.
As we complete the for us to plan, implement and deliver and be governed, we are now addressing the fi financial integration of Alcan, we expect to sustainable contributions to social approvals required and integration planning.
exceed US$1.1 billion per year in synergies.
wellbeing, environmental stewardship This transaction would enable us to deliver and economic prosperity, within Our capacity for innovation is an important substantial synergies and unlock the true our strong governance systems.
driver of operational delivery improvements.
value of our signifi cant assets in the Pilbara.
We will continue to capitalise on our leading Our approach helps us to manage risk, technologies and develop our capabilities in Prudent balance sheet management and our strong reputation as a socially areas such as automation.
We will focus on prudent management of responsible miner gives us improved our balance sheet, building on the successful access to land, people and capital the The delivery of capacity improvements along the supply chain is also a key part of this three critical resources upon which our measures we undertook to alleviate our debt priority.
This includes the mining, processing business success is built.
A full review of position in 2009.
We will continue with and shipping of our commodities.
our sustainable development performance our operating and capital cost reduction begins on page 24. initiatives as well as our asset divestment Pursue our growth path programme in order to optimise our fi financial Building relationships with all our internal Our second priority is to grow our business position.
Our objective in this area is towards and external stakeholders is a cornerstone through disciplined capital expenditure.
The achieving a single A credit rating.
This of our sustainable development approach.
improved strength of our balance sheet in 2009 priority links closely to the pursuit of growth A vital element of our relationship with positions us well for growth.
We have confi dence through disciplined capital expenditure.
our employees is to keep them healthy in the projected increase in long term demand and safe.
We believe that all incidents for our products, particularly from emerging Strengthen our relationship with China markets, which will be the driver of this growth.
and injuries are preventable, and we must continue to make improvements in our We will seek to strengthen our relationship The growth opportunities that we focus key safety indicators.
with China: our largest trading partner, the on are aligned with our strategy, and so we home of our largest shareholder, and a market will make investment decisions based on Our aim is to create an environment that will be one of the major drivers of future the quality of each opportunity rather than where all employees and contractors demand.
China is strategically important the choice of commodity.
This may mean have the knowledge, skills and desire to to Rio Tinto and it is essential that we build considering new commodities, as well as work safely, so that everyone goes home durable and ongoing relationships there.
capitalising on the expansion potential that safe and healthy at the end of each day.
is held within our existing assets.
Attracting, developing and retaining a skilled and engaged workforce is essential for our business performance.
Building enduring relationships with our local communities, host countries and governments is also fundamental to our sustainable development commitment, and helps us to be seen as the partner of choice for mineral development.
Focus on operational delivery indicators 2.
Pursue our growth path Achievement of our strategy and goals are measured by a mixture 3.
Complete the iron ore of fi financial and non fi financial production joint venture performance indicators, some 4.
Prudent balance sheet of which are linked to executive management remuneration.
Strengthen our relationship with China More information on p. 14 www.
