Performance Aluminium Jacynthe Ct, chief executive, Rio Tinto Alcan Transforming the Aluminium business The Aluminium product group, Rio Tinto Alcan, is a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Its operations are closely integrated across the globe, and include mining high quality bauxite, refi ning alumina for both primary aluminium production and specialty alumina markets, and producing primary aluminium at some of the lowest cost, most technologically advanced smelters in the industry.
Rio Tinto Alcan is renowned for its technology leadership as well as its advantaged position among aluminium producers in generating clean, renewable hydroelectricity.
For production and reserves see page 62 Strategy Key priorities 2009 Operational highlights Deliver on our baseline commitments Improve safety performance towards the including customer service, sustainable objective of zero harm.
US$ million development, and ensuring the safety of Revenue 12,038 Maintain focus on transformational our employees.
Operating cash fl ow 688 change to enhance margins, reduce Underlying earnings 578 Continue our journey of transformation operating costs and optimise effi ciencies Capital expenditure 1,690 and deliver on cost improvements.
Net operating assets 35,992 Surpass our synergy target and complete Continue to align production levels with the integration process, which includes market requirements.
Operating cash flow contribution accelerating our cultural integration.
Drive additional value growth initiatives Protect and enhance our superior growth such as capital effi ciency projects and options while preserving cash.
Strategically progress key projects including Achievements the Yarwun 2 expansion project Australia, Reduction of 22 per cent in the all injury Kitimat Modernisation Project, AP50 pilot 5% frequency rate from 2008 to 2009. plant and Shipshaw optimisation Canada.
Delivered after tax synergy benefi ts of Outlook US$924 million during 2009 with an annualised sustainable run rate of Rio Tinto Alcan remains committed to US$1.1 billion at the end of 2009. delivering on operational effi ciencies and improving its baseline cost structure.
Transformational change to both administrative and production costs Major cost reduction measures and further Underlying earnings contribution drove further effi ciencies across the aligning production with market demands 2007 2009 US$m 0 entire organisation.
are expected to position Rio Tinto Alcan 1,040 2007 to continue to lead the restructured global Strategically managed sustaining 207 Prices and exchange aluminium industry going forward.
55 Inflation capital expenditure allocations, and 1,073 Volume completed value improvement exercises To build stronger margins and remain long 86 Costs at major capital project sites to improve in bauxite and alumina, the group holds 495 Tax and other long term costs.
the worlds largest bauxite reserves and a 1,271 2008 competitive position in the alumina sector.
2,243 Price and exchange Adjusted production of bauxite, alumina 4 Inflation and aluminium to align with the downturn Carbon trading and emissions regulations 41 Volume in market demand.
will factor strongly in the coming years, 233 Costs particularly in OECD countries, and the 206 Tax and other groups AP technology and clean energy 578 2009 sources are expected to provide advantages 2007 comparatives have beeen restated to remove Engineered Products.
A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22.
All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
34 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 1.04 1.33 1.67 1.45 1.41 and exchanging personnel with other smelter uses Rio Tinto Alcans benchmark Performance Rio Tinto businesses, will also be key.
AP36 technology a highly effi cient and In 2009, Rio Tinto Alcans annual bauxite environmentally friendly smelting technology.
production was 30.7 million tonnes, down Strategically protecting and enhancing our from 35.0 million tonnes in 2008 mainly superior growth options has meant slowing Energy effi ciency improved by one per growth oriented capital expenditures.
Value due to production curtailments at Weipa, cent over last year in North America due to improvement projects at selected sites are Australia.
The group has a leading position aggressive improvement targets at each of targeting 20-30 per cent reductions in capital in alumina refi ning and full ownership or the groups smelters, energy self audits to costs for major projects.
In the medium term, participation in 21 aluminium smelters with reduce natural gas consumption at anode previously announced modernisations or a total annual capacity of nearly 4.0 million baking furnaces, and auxiliary natural gas closures are expected to move our portfolio tonnes Rio Tintos share, the vast majority consumption reductions.
These initiatives even further down the industry cost curve.
of which are located in OECD countries.
required no additional investment from This will allow us to create value throughout Rio Tinto Alcan.
In the current environment of weaker future economic cycles and reduce our global than average demand, the group retains Despite economic pressures, safety was a carbon footprint.
a competitive advantage, as about top priority and overall, the group achieved Our business strategy also includes being 80 per cent of its aluminium is produced a 22 per cent reduction in the all injury long in bauxite and alumina.
This supports in the fi first half of the industry cost curve frequency rate from 2008 to 2009. our growth and ensures that the group is not and it has curtailed higher cost production.
exposed to the asymmetric alumina pricing Safety Rio Tinto Alcans favourable cost position, risk when the global alumina market falls into especially with regard to energy inputs, has Rio Tinto Alcan and its employees have defi cit.
Expansion of the Yarwun refi nery in benefi ted the business during the current integrated Rio Tinto safety performance Australia will increase alumina production global economic downturn.
standards and risk management practices by two million tonnes per annum.
The ultimate goal of construction has resulted in a revised In 2009, Rio Tinto Alcans contribution to remains zero harm.
Regrettably, one fatality completion date for the second half of 2012. underlying earnings was a negative US$578 occurred at the Ghana Bauxite Company million, a decrease of US$1,849 million from site in August 2009.
This is mainly due to the sharp decline in LME prices experienced during the fi first Synergies from the integration of Alcan A key priority has been the reduction of half of 2009, coupled with the continuing were delivered ahead of target despite major risks through the implementation of economic downturn in most markets.
The economic pressures and capital constraints.
Rio Tinto HSE performance standards and risk effects of the LME and market conditions This was achieved using only 70 per cent management practices.
At critical sites, Process were partially reduced by improved raw of the planned operational expenditure, Safety Management to prevent collapse, fi re, material costs through negotiation of prices, and 23 per cent of the planned capital and explosion as well as the release of toxic, lower oil prices, and lower cash costs due to expenditure.
Furthermore, full recurring reactive, fl ammable, or explosive materials cash initiatives, production curtailments, synergies delivered are expected to exceed has progressed signifi cantly.
and ongoing synergy benefi ts.
Second half the previously stated US$1.1 billion target.
During 2009, the integration process was EBITDA improved by over US$1 billion At the end of 2009, Rio Tinto Alcan had successfully completed including key compared to the fi first half as transformational closed, sold or curtailed approximately elements of the Rio Tinto HSEQ management initiatives enabled Rio Tinto Alcan to be well ten per cent of its aluminium smelting system and deployment of the Safety positioned for the aluminium price recovery.
production, which represents the removal Leadership Development Programme.
of a signifi cant portion of its capacity in the The average aluminium market price in top half of the cost curve.
The group has also 2009 was US$1,701 per tonne compared All injury frequency rate slowed selected projects, using the delay with US$2,620 per tonne in 2008.
The Per 200,000 hours worked to complete value improvement exercises groups average realised price for ingot aimed at improving costs for the long term.
Rio Tinto Rio Tinto including former Alcan Transformational change to both administrative and production costs Strategy drove further effi ciencies across the Rio Tinto Alcan will continue to deliver on its entire organisation.
baseline commitments, including customer In addition to completion of the Ningxia service, sustainable development and joint venture sales transaction in China, ensuring employee safety.
The group will also strategic divestments included the sale remain focused on delivering value through of the groups 80 per cent interest in the large scale, long term cost competitive assets.
Ghana Bauxite Company, including the Financial performance will be founded Awaso bauxite mine, as it was not aligned on continued transformational change, with our long term strategy.
The sale was a reduced cost structure, and robust cash completed on 1 February 2010. management.
Cash preservation and The Sohar Aluminium smelter in Oman, optimisation of working capital remain which poured its fi first metal in 2008, key ongoing priorities.
Synergy targets reached its full capacity of 360,000 tonnes 05 06 07 08 09 and completing integration, including per annum in 2009.
The state of the art cultural integration by aligning systems www.
com 35 90.1 100.0 100.0 118.7 117.0 119.4 117.7 Performance Aluminium continued Completion of this work lays the foundation community and identify potential long term Integration of Alcan for establishing clear global priorities and projects such as a remelt and recycling centre The integration of Alcan delivered after tax common business standards.
at Beauharnois and a standalone casting synergy benefi ts of US$924 million during centre at Anglesey.
The sale of Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Alcans all injury frequency rate 2009 with an annualised sustainable run rate Alcans share of the Ningxia smelter in China AIFR of 1.04 at the end of 2009 represented of US$1.1 billion at the end of 2009.
Despite was completed in 2009. a 38 per cent reduction over the 2007 economic turbulence and capital constraints, The group also temporarily curtailed integrated former Rio Tinto Aluminium the integration programme has successfully production capacity at selected facilities and Alcan baseline.
achieved its US$1.1 billion target for 2010 using only 70 per cent US$173 million of worldwide.
Globally, the business has closed, Greenhouse gas emissions the planned operational expenditure, and sold or curtailed approximately ten per cent 23 per cent US$122 million of the planned of its aluminium smelting production as Total greenhouse gas emission intensity capital expenditure.
As remaining projects at the end of 2009, which represents the at Rio Tinto Alcan reduced by 9.9 per cent realise their full potential in 2010, the full removal of a signifi cant portion of its capacity for aluminium.
This is the result of the recurring synergies delivered are expected in the fi first half of the cost curve.
divestment of the Ningxia joint venture to be US$1.2 billion per year, which exceeds smelter in China, closure of some older Bauxite and alumina production was also the stated target of US$1.1 billion.
operations, curtailment of production at adjusted to align with market demand and selected facilities and increased The delivered benefi ts are derived from a internal requirements.
Bauxite production operational effi ciency.
range of business areas such as logistics was curtailed by 12 per cent globally, and operations.
The operating synergies including a 3.8 million tonne reduction at Rio Tinto Alcan is a leader in the generation are driven primarily by cost reduction Weipa, and alumina capacity was curtailed of low GHG intensity power, with projects in initiatives in procurement and combining by two per cent.
Cost reduction and cash place to continue improvements to overall knowledge and resources between business conservation initiatives included slowing site performance, as well as leverage energy units, by optimising Australian bauxite construction of the Yarwun alumina refi nery effi ciency, best practice sharing, and research production which, when ramped up, is expansion in Australia, introducing a fl exible and development efforts to achieve both GHG expected to result in synergies of US$24 production model at the Jonquire Vaudreuil reductions and low carbon targets.
Within the worldwide refi nery in Canada and lowering operating Primary Metal Research & Development costs.
At year end, 76 per cent of bauxite Aluminium greenhouse gas function, optimisation and coordination production and 36 per cent of alumina emissions intensity of research project streams generated production were situated in the lower half of Indexed relative to 2008 annualised savings of US$22 million.
Rio Tinto excluding former Alcan Rio Tinto including former Alcan As we conclude the integration programme, Primary Metal operations in North America synergies will become embedded into normal delivered 182 per cent on anticipated business operations.
Deferred projects will be synergies and integration targets.
transferred to Business Improvement teams Effi ciency was greatly improved by a strong for future realisation, and best practices will commitment to Business Improvement continue to be shared across Rio Tinto.
and quick, integrated deployment of Improving Performance Together IPT asset Review of operations management and LEAN methodologies.
In addition to meeting synergies and Primary Metal, Asia Pacifi c also exceeded integration targets, cash preservation and its synergy targets by 47 per cent at its optimisation of working capital remain key smelting operations.
Improvement programmes and To further global competitiveness, a reductions have targeted both structural restructuring programme is under way in and cyclical elements such as the cost of key France to improve productivity by 20 per cent inputs including coke, caustic and pitch.
and align production costs with the global 05 06 07 08 09 To sustain input cost reductions over the longer term, Rio Tinto Alcan widened its industry average.
This will position both specifi cation ranges, capitalised on logistic the smelters and alumina operations to take Rio Tinto Alcan contributes 64 per cent of Rio opportunities, and leveraged its position advantage of potential carbon constraints Tintos total GHG emissions.
Our achieved as a part of the Rio Tinto Group during and the benefi ts of nuclear electricity.
and continued reductions also contribute procurement negotiations.
After registering a low of US$1,367 per signifi cantly to the Rio Tinto Groups overall Rio Tinto Alcan permanently closed or tonne in February, average monthly LME intensity improvements.
divested higher cost facilities to centre its prices trended upward during the rest of Furthermore, Rio Tinto Alcan products play asset base on top tier, large scale assets.
the year, reaching US$2,213 per tonne in an important role in attaining sustainable The Beauharnois smelter in Quebec ceased December.
Automobile production in the downstream GHG savings across numerous smelting operations in April and the Anglesey US, Japan and Western Europe has begun commercial and civilian sectors, notably Aluminium Metal joint venture in the UK to increase.
Industrial production and in automobiles, trucks, buses and trains.
Regional industrial semis shipments in these regions have also Aluminium can also be recycled indefi nitely development teams have assisted both sites moved upward since reaching a trough in without compromising its quality.
to reduce the impact of the closure on the the April-June 2009 period.
36 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information The Chinese aluminium market moved from plant is under construction in the Saguenay, Outlook being a slight net exporter during the last Quebec, Canada, and the AP-Xe suite is In the short term, Rio Tinto Alcan remains fi five years to a net importer.
But as a result of being designed to be retrofi tted to previous committed to delivering on operational slower economic growth earlier in the year AP series cells.
excellence and improving its baseline and dramatic capacity curtailments in the cost structure.
By maintaining major cost In addition to its modern, low cost smelting domestic aluminium industry, an energy reduction measures made in 2009, we expect fl fleet, Rio Tinto Alcan is a fully integrated surplus has emerged, pushing down the that the business will be in a strong position aluminium producer.
The group can leverage cost of production and encouraging restarts to lead the restructured global aluminium various supply chain benefi ts from mine to of aluminium capacity.
It is likely that the industry going forward.
Rio Tinto Alcan will metal, and expects suffi cient supplies to energy situation will prove to be temporary.
continue aligning production with sales sustain its long term growth strategy.
It holds Ongoing urbanisation and increases in and marketing needs.
As part of an ongoing interests in three of the four largest bauxite standards of living will drive competition for reorganisation of its operating structure in mines in the world Weipa, Porto Trombetas energy, moving China back into an energy France, the group will adopt cost reduction and Sangaredi, situated in the top three defi cit and placing upward pressure on costs.
measures for selected European aluminium bauxite reserve countries Australia, Brazil and specialty alumina operations.
Because the aluminium industry took a and Guinea.
This provides optionality signifi cant amount of high cost capacity through size, expandability and proximity Global aluminium consumption growth offl ine in 2009, average industry costs have to key growth markets.
is expected to grow in the range of four declined, resulting in a fl attening of the to six per cent during the next decade, Rio Tinto Alcans bauxite reserves in north aluminium cost curve.
This is likely to be supported by Chinas continued urbanisation, eastern Australia, Weipa and Gove mines, temporary and to reverse as demand picks industrialisation and economic development, and alumina refi neries at Gove, Yarwun, up and causes some restarts of higher cost as well as that of developing economies such and Queensland Alumina have made smelters.
If this occurs, a steeper cost curve as India, Indonesia and Brazil.
Our analysis this region in particular a hub for future will emerge, favouring low cost producers suggests that by 2020, meeting increased optimisation opportunities.
demand will require the equivalent of one The group has therefore prioritised the new Quebec smelting system every nine protection and enhancement of its superior months, as well as the equivalent of a fully growth initiatives, although no new capacity expanded Yarwun every year, and a Weipa is planned before 2012 and large scale every three years.
projects worldwide have been slowed.
This Because Rio Tinto Alcans energy costs are delay has been used to complete value believed to be less linked to pricing on the improvement exercises aimed at reducing London Metal Exchange than other large costs for the long term.
Both the AP50 producers, we are well positioned to capture pilot plant in Quebec and the Kitimat value when prices rise.
The group intends to Modernisation Project in British Columbia are leverage this advantage through growth and working to implement the latest in low energy additional effi ciency initiatives.
consumption technology, maximise their use of existing infrastructure, and apply lean Carbon trading and emissions regulations construction principles in the years ahead.
will factor strongly for aluminium in the coming years, particularly in OECD countries.
Rio Tinto Alcan has also signed a The New Zealand government has a legislated memorandum of understanding with the Emissions Trading Scheme, expected to Government of Cameroon in preparation include the NZAS joint venture from July for a greenfi eld project that includes a 2010, and the Australian government has hydropower dam, aluminium smelter and proposed a carbon pollution reduction port facilities.
Construction is expected to scheme to commence in July 2011.
As begin toward the end of 2011, with fi first metal of 2013, Rio Tinto Alcan sites within the in 2016.
European Union will join the European The Shipshaw power station optimisation is Trading Scheme and therefore be covered by on budget and on schedule, and is expected all applicable regulations.
to improve this major component of Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Alcans growth portfolio includes Alcans extensive hydroelectric network in projects that centre on clean energy sources Quebec, which has a total installed capacity as well as high performance technologies of approximately 2,900 megawatts.
as means of reducing emissions.
Our comprehensive, proprietary AP technology suite also makes Rio Tinto Alcan a partner of choice for project development, driven by a disciplined, proven engineering and technology delivery process.
We continue to develop the next generation of our smelting technology as an ideal complement to strong, renewable power assets.
