Overview Market review A global perspective for metals and minerals Commodity price indices, January 2009 to February 2010 Decline in global growth, 2007 to 2009 Daily spot price index 1 January 2009 100 Industrial production growth year on year % change Key Aluminium Key Non-OECD Spot iron ore 62% Fe, Fob OECD Thermal coal NEWC World Copper 300 10 200 0 -10 100 Jan 2009 Mar 2009 May 2009 Aug 2009 Jan 2010 -20 Q1 2007 Q1 2008 Q1 2009 Q1 2010 Source: LME, SBB, Reuters Ecowin, globalCOAL Source: Global Insight growth became unavoidable with most major Chinese government in early 2008 and a Competitive environment developed economies moving into recession by correction in a slightly overheating property Rio Tinto is a major producer in all of the the end of 2008. market contributed to the slowdown in the metals and minerals markets in which it pace of economic growth in China during the operates.
It is generally among the top fi five The deterioration in global economic activity second half of 2008.
By the fi first quarter of global producers by volume in each such continued into 2009, leading to the greatest 2009 the annualised pace of GDP growth had market.
It has market shares for different contraction in industrial production for fallen to nearly six per cent, a sharp contrast commodities ranging from fi five per cent over 30 years.
Global trade ground to a halt, to the double digit growth that the Chinese to 40 per cent.
Rio Tintos activities are consumer confi dence collapsed with rising economy had become accustomed to over fears about unemployment, and businesses spread across the globe.
Most of Rio Tintos the previous four years.
responded to the credit crunch by cutting competitors are private sector companies spending and reducing output in order to which are publicly quoted.
Several are, like The Chinese Government reacted strongly and pare back high inventory levels.
However, Rio Tinto, diversifi ed in terms of commodity rapidly to the economic slowdown, announcing the introduction of large fi scal and monetary a Rmb 4 trillion stimulus package, equivalent exposure, but others are focused on particular stimuli by governments around the world to about 12 per cent of GDP, to be spent over commodities.
started to take effect towards the middle of two years.
The Government also introduced a High quality, long life mineral resources, the year, averting a second Great Depression.
set of measures aimed at supporting demand the basis of attractive fi financial returns, are in key sectors and boosting consumption in Global trade started to recover during the relatively scarce.
Nevertheless, Rio Tinto rural areas.
The stimulus was accompanied by second half of 2009, led by activity in Asia.
holds interests in some of the worlds largest a massive surge in bank lending during the fi first Major developed economies gradually deposits.
Rio Tinto expects world production half of 2009 with signifi cant investment going stabilised with most experiencing renewed volumes to grow in line with global economic into the development of infrastructure projects.
GDP growth by the third quarter of 2009. growth.
In addition, higher demand from All these measures were successful in boosting China and potentially India, as a result of high Most OECD economies are now in the early economic growth as early as the second quarter stages of recovery initially driven by inventory rates of economic growth and urbanisation of 2009. rebuilding, government spending and in trends in those countries, could contribute some cases net trade.
The normal pattern The growth momentum continued to further to increases in world production of recovery is that the process of inventory build up during the second half of the year volumes in the long term.
rebuilding and economic stimulus would with activity in the property sector also generate job growth, increase business starting to bounce back strongly.
All of these Economic overview confi dence, and create the basis for increased developments bode well for the strength of Global economy consumption.
However at this stage there Chinas economy in 2010.
Following more than four years of rapid remain risks that the pace of recovery may Commodity markets expansion the global economy started to not be sustained.
This is mainly because deteriorate rapidly during the third quarter of consumer confi dence has been so heavily The sharp fall in global economic activity has 2008 as fi financial markets became increasingly weighed upon by high unemployment had a signifi cant impact on the demand for unstable.
The bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers rates, the loss in wealth and the prospect of metals and minerals.
Contractions in end-use became the defi ning moment of this period increased taxes to fund the current stimulus.
consumption have been amplifi ed by heavy sparking signifi cant increases in risk premiums destocking at all stages of the supply chains.
China and a sharp contraction in availability of Metals such as aluminium, which tend to fi finance.
Governments around the world The collapse in global trade affected many be more exposed to the construction and took action to restore confi dence in fi financial developing economies including China.
The transport sectors of developed economies, markets but a decline in global economic lagged impact of policy tightening by the have been affected most strongly leading to 10 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information Chinese growth offsets western declines in 2009 Urbanisation key driver of long term metals demand year on year % change % urban population Key Global Key India Ex-China China China US 30 100 15 75 50 0 -15 25 -30 Al demand Cu demand Steel output 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000 Source: IISI, Rio Tinto Source: UN GDP per capita very rapid increases in excess stocks.
Prices, underlying demand, restocking, closure emerge as the fi scal and monetary stimulus which in many cases were trading well in of high cost domestic capacity and some wanes or is removed over time.
excess of the marginal costs of production speculative activity facilitated by rising Some risks to the outlook include the liquidity.
Falls in scrap supplies as a result prior to the economic downturn, reacted possibility of an aggressive tightening of of slower industrial activity and lower prices quickly to falling demand and rising monetary policies in Asian economies in also created a need for Chinese consumers inventories.
The price falls were especially response to concerns about consumer and to use and import a higher proportion of steep for exchange traded commodities as or asset price infl ation.
Also it is possible primary metals.
This was especially acute the turbulence in the fi financial sector forced that consumer spending in the OECD will in the case of copper throughout the fi first investors out of these markets.
remain constrained due to concerns about half of 2009.
These high levels of Chinese employment prospects, housing wealth Aluminium and copper experienced a peakimports absorbed some of the surpluses and increased tax burdens.
Economic data to-trough variation of about 60 per cent and building up outside China, keeping some releases and news fl ow will affect investors 70 per cent respectively within just a couple markets relatively tight.
perceptions about the likelihood of such of quarters.
Meanwhile the iron ore contract Copper experienced one of the strongest risks compared with the strength of the price settled with Japanese customers in rebounds with prices rising 140 per cent more positive forces on the markets.
This the second quarter of 2009 was about one between the start and the end of the year, will lead to negative and positive swings third lower than the previous benchmark.
moving to within less than 20 per cent in sentiment affecting commodity prices The hard coking coal contract price also fell of the pre-crisis 2008 peak.
substantially by close to 60 per cent, whilst spot iron ore prices almost doubled over spot thermal coal prices fell 65 per cent Trend information the second half of 2009 and aluminium between July 2008 and the end of the fi first quarter of 2009.
Such price declines put recovered from a low of near US$1,300 Demand for the Groups products is closely signifi cant pressure on mining companies, per tonne during the fi first quarter of 2009 aligned with levels of, and changes in, global with, for some commodities, signifi cant to just over US$2,200 per tonne by year GDP.
Changes in the GDP of developing portions of the industry showing negative countries will generally have a greater end despite historically high visible stock impact on demand for commodities such margins.
This led to a shift in focus from levels.
Movements in coal prices were more as iron ore and coking coal, which are maximising output to capital management, subdued during 2009 but started to trend signifi cant inputs in the development and production curtailment and cost saving.
up again towards the very end of the year.
Conversely, These recent developments reinforced Rio Outlook for 2010 changes in the GDP of developed countries Tintos strategy of investing in Tier 1 assets, will have a greater impact on industrial which are generally able to generate positive Forecasters have become progressively more minerals, which have many applications in margins over the whole of the economic optimistic about economic growth in 2010. consumer products.
The sharp price falls and credit The IMF is predicting global growth of nearly are used in a wide range of applications restrictions also led to the cancellation or four per cent and Chinese GDP is expected from infrastructure to consumer products postponement of many mining projects.
to grow at between nine and ten per cent.
and demand for these metals has tended to Economy wide inventory rebuilding in the The start of a stabilisation in the global grow in line with or slightly faster than global OECD should provide a short term boost to economy from the second quarter of 2009 GDP.
Trends in production of the Groups activity.
Such growth acceleration would and more importantly the rapid turnaround minerals and metals, gross sales revenue have positive implications for metals and of the Chinese economy triggered a sharp and underlying earnings are set out in the minerals markets.
Although it is still unclear bounce back in commodity prices.
Chinese Performance reviews starting on page 22. imports of metals and minerals soared whether a sustainable recovery in private to new highs as a result of recovering sector confi dence and economic activity will www.
