Production and reserves Mineral resources As required by the Australian Securities judgement of the Competent Person there are Resources are stated as additional to the Exchange, the following tables contain details realistic expectations that all or part of the reserves reported earlier.
Where operations of other mineralisation that has a reasonable Mineral Resources will eventually become are not managed by RioTinto the resources prospect of being economically extracted in Proved or Probable Reserves, there is no are published as received from the managing the future but which is not yet classifi ed as guarantee that this will occur as the result company.
Where new project resources or Proved or Probable Reserves.
This material depends on further technical and economic reserves are footnoted as being reported for is defi ned as Mineral Resources under the studies and prevailing economic conditions the fi first time, additional information about JORC Code.
Estimates of such material are in the future.
"As in the case of reserves, them can be viewed on the RioTinto website, based largely on geological information with managed operations estimates are completed in the section titled What we produce only preliminary consideration of mining, using or testing against RioTinto long term ""Exploration""."
While in the pricing and market forecasts scenarios.
com 75 Production and reserves Mineral resources continued Notes: Antelope, Cordero Rojo and Spring Creek mines and hh Channel Iron Deposit resource tonnes rose as a result of a 24.1 per cent interest in the Decker mine.
These remodelling which identifi ed additional mineralisation.
a Likely mining method: O P open pit: O C open cut: interests were formerly reported under RioTinto Energy U G underground: D O dredging operation: ii Detritals resources increased after a remodelling America but are now managed by Cloud Peak Energy.
exercise and an update of economic inputs.
q As a part of the re-structuring of the US coal businesses, b Changes to Porto Trombetas resources are due to a jj Hope Downs 1 Detrital resources have decreased as Colowyo revised its pit design and mine plans resulting re-start of an exploration programme on the lease and a result of a larger pit design converting resource to in a decreased resource footprint.
Resources, like reserves are as product reserve.
presentable to the refi nery.
"r Cordero Rojo resources increased by seven million kk Following economic and geological studies, tonnes through an acquisition, as well as by additions c Following technical and economic studies, resources for Hope Downs 4 Brockman tonnes have moved from a new drilling programme, then a model update the Bidikoum and Silidara plateaus at Sangaredi have from ""undeveloped"" resources to ""developed"" and now followed by reclassifi cation of reserve to resource."
Bauxite resources here are essentially in situ support reserves ahead of pending production.
material as pre-refi nery processing is minimal.
s Deckers current contracts expire in 2011 and the ll Resources decreased at Hope Downs Brockman operation is seeking additional sales.
Consequently no d The geological models for Weipa and Ducie-Wenlock following conversion to reserves and a change to some resources are reported.
have been amalgamated into one reporting entity.
Australian bauxite resources are reported as matched t The increase in Escondida oxide ore followed mm IOCC resources are quoted, for the fi first time, on an into their refi ning entities where the Gove fi gures refl ect incorporation of updated economic assumptions in a situ tonnes and grades basis.
The equivalent marketable an essentially in situ material as it reports immediately remodelling exercise.
product is as follows: Measured 123 million tonnes to the site refi nery, the Weipa resource is tabulated as a u Under the terms of a joint venture agreement between @ 65 per cent iron, Indicated 370 million tonnes product suitable for shipping to the refi ning operation.
RioTinto and FCX, RioTinto is entitled to a direct @ 65 per cent iron, Inferred 580 million tonnes The Weipa tonnage decrease follows re-modelling 40 per cent share in resources discovered after 31 @ 65 per cent iron at a cut off grade of 14 per cent including updated economic and geological inputs.
Net resources decreased e Boron resources are reported as in situ B O, rather than through remodelling using updated technical and 2 3 v Resource additions at Northparkes resulted from a marketable product as in reserves.
Measured resources economic criteria, as well as resource to reserve re-examination of the mining model.
were converted to reserves following inclusion of conversion.
w RioTintos interest in Ivanhoe Mines has increased updated geotechnical constraints in a new pit design.
nn Robe Marra Mamba resources have decreased due to from 9.9 per cent to 19.7 per cent.
RioTintos interest f In 2008 a marketable product fi gure for Jadar borate re-interpretation, a new resource block model and in Hugo North Extension and Heruga, based on the was reported, after metallurgical recovery from in updating of input parameters.
current ownership structure of Ivanhoe and Entre situ mineralised material.
The table now reports the Gold, has increased from 13.5 per cent to 19.5 per cent.
oo All resources reported for Simandou lie in blocks 3 and in situ mineral content for the resource, to align with 4 of the Concession and reporting is thus not modifi ed x Resource tonnage at Resolution increased following the Boron US estimates.
The Jadar lithium resource is by challenge to tenure of blocks 1 and 2.
Rights over a new mining study including new geotechnical expressed as in situ tonnes of mineralised material.
blocks 3 and 4 have been reverted to an exploration constraints and geological features, a lowering of the g Coal type: SC steam thermal coal, MC metallurgical status, but the Guinea Ministry of Mines has confi rmed expected mining level and results of further drilling.
coking coal that they will be converted to both exploration and y The resource at Argyle AK1 was reduced following mining rights.
The Simandou resource estimate has h A major update of Hail Creek reserves and resources economic studies.
been completed and tested using Rio Tinto growth was undertaken, including an upgrade of some market scenario prices and costs selected specifi cally for z Argyle alluvials resource tonnages have been removed resources to reserves and transfer of other resource this project.
Such prices and costs are higher than is the following economic studies.
case for other iron ore resources disclosed in this report.
aa RioTinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest i Lake Elphinstone underwent a model update which pp Molybdenum grades interpolated from exploration in the Corumb mine, effective 18 September 2009. led to an increase in resource tonnage.
drilling assays have been factored based on a long bb The Brockman 2 resource has increased after additional j Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Maules reconciliation history to blasthole and mill samples.
drilling led to new resource models and pit design Creek property with transfer being effective on 18 qq RioTinto completed the sale of its 100 per cent interest updates.
February 2010. in Potasio Rio Colorado, effective 5 February 2009. cc Mt Tom Price high grade resource tonnes were lowered k Resources at Mount Thorley Operations increased rr Talc Resources declined after geological model updates after model updates.
and conversion of resources to reserves.
dd Paraburdoo Marra Mamba is reported here for the l Valeria resource tonnes increased following a model ss Richards Bay Minerals resource tonnage improved fi first time after geological and economic studies update.
following model updates including new drilling data were completed.
m Rio Tinto sold its 75.7 per cent interest in the Vickery and some material reclassifi cation.
During the fourth ee Following economic and geological studies, Turee property with transfer being effective on 4 February quarter of 2009, Richards Bay Minerals concluded Syncline tonnes have moved from undeveloped 2010. a Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment resources to developed and now support reserves transaction.
The table above refl ects a change from n A pit shell re-design and update of economic models ahead of pending production.
50 per cent to 37 per cent in RioTintos interest in RBM, has resulted in a decrease in resources attributed to ff Resources in this category consist of 42 separate with effect from 9 December 2009.
deposits, 24 of which are wholly owned by Hamersley o An updated geological model and mining study led to Iron.
The Shovelanna resource 50 per cent Hamersley an increase in resource tonnes at Winchester South.
Iron is not included as mining lease applications are p On 20 November 2009, RioTinto completed the initial currently awaiting granting of tenure.
public offering of Cloud Peak Energy Inc. As a result gg Brockman Process ore resources increased from updating RioTinto now holds a 48.3 per cent interest in the models and including new drilling results in places.
