UK Keeping Tower Bridge operational Tower Bridge in London, one of the worlds most famous landmarks, is being refurbished over a four year period.
The project is part of the City of London Corporations plans to refurbish historic structures and key gateways to the City.
During that time the bridge will remain fully open due to the traf c management support of A-Plant Lux.
A-Plant Lux is A-Plants specialist traf c control and management business.
We will be supporting the contractor managing the refurbishment for the duration of the project.
The 244 metre long structure, which was originally built in 1894, will be repainted in stages with up to 25% of the bridge completely encapsulated by scaffolding at each stage of the work.
Throughout the work, A-Plant Luxs traf c management equipment will be on-site all day every day, keeping the bridge open to traf c until it returns to its former glory.
9 US Keeping the equipment moving through hurricane season Hurricane season 2008 saw Sunbelt making the most of our national network of depots as Dolly, Fay, Gustav, Hanna and Ike all wrought havoc across the southern states of the US.
When the first hurricane, Dolly, hit San Padre Island in south Texas, we were on-site within 24 hours despite the adverse weather conditions, helping to rebuild, clean and power the affected hotels.
When Hurricane Fay zigzagged through the state of Florida, becoming the first storm in recorded history to make landfall in Florida four times, we were quickly on hand to provide generators to get things moving again and the pumps required to clear ood water.
We already had fleet moving across the country from Texas and the North East into Florida and Los Angeles while hurricanes Hanna and Gustav were making their presence felt there.
Our logistical focus then quickly had to change back to Texas, when Hurricane Ike struck and we mobilised yet more fleet from our national network, from Baltimore through Chicago to Los Angeles and Seattle.
US Assisting the inauguration of the 44th president Sunbelt has played a role in the US presidential inaugurations since 1993.
This year was no different and Sunbelt was asked to help in a variety of areas on the day itself and at other connected events.
For example, we supplied over 2,000 pieces of traf c control equipment to help direct the estimated 1.8m people hoping to get a glimpse of the new president.
Sunbelt was also the primary rental company involved in erecting stages and viewing stands throughout the mall between the Capitol and the Lincoln Memorial, including the presidential viewing stand.
Some 50 or so aerial work platforms and forklifts were the main tools for this task and we also installed 39 light towers in and around the inauguration site.
We provided equipment for several private parties held in tents and nightclubs all over Washington DC.
We supplied large numbers of heaters to combat the extreme cold and also the generators to power those heaters.
In addition, we provided equipment to several city blocks on the parade route to enable vendors to serve the general public.
We were able to provide a full service solution on one of the most exciting days in recent US history.
11 US Cleaning up after the Cedar Rapids ood In June 2008, a 30 foot surge of water rushed through downtown Cedar Rapids, Iowa, saturating the basements, first oors and even second oors of some buildings.
Sunbelts Pump & Power division had support on the ground within 24 hours, working at first to retain a yard to which equipment could be delivered and from where it could be dispersed and serviced.
Because of Sunbelts multi-year experience in managing emergency situations, staff knew exactly how to stage the supply of equipment to ensure that the right kit was in place at each stage of the clean-up process.
First we delivered pumps and dewatering equipment to eliminate the remaining water in ltration.
Once the buildings were free of standing water, our customers began the remediation and restoration processes, including demolition in some instances.
The buildings that were salvageable were cleaned, dehumidi ed and restored.
Dehumidi ers coupled with generators then became the required equipment and Sunbelt was prepared with the truckloads already delivered and several more on the way.
UK Decommissioning Sella eld Sella eld was one of the first nuclear power station sites in the UK and its earlier reactors are now being decommissioned as they are no longer operational.
A-Plant is assisting with this massive project from its Whitehaven depot which is just 15 minutes away from the Sella eld site.
As with any major engineering project, there are a number of large contractors working on the project at any one time, several of whom are national account customers.
Our proximity to the site means we are able to provide a wide range of equipment to all the contractors in a timely and ef cient fashion, as well as providing maintenance and health and safety instruction, and support for the equipment we supply.
This equipment includes accommodation units for contractors who are based on the site long term, concrete formwork, telehandlers, booms and scissor lifts as well as traf c management kit for the road widening project outside the site.
13 US Helping keep the Red Bulls ying Another exciting project this past year for Sunbelt staff was their work in support of the Red Bull Air Race.
This innovative sporting event combines ying with the best of motor racing and first took place in 2001.
Using the fastest, most agile and lightweight racing planes, pilots navigate a low-level aerial racetrack made up of airlled pylons, reaching speeds of 370 kilometres per hour while withstanding forces of up to 12G.
Last year the race touched down in eight cities worldwide and the organisers turned to Sunbelt to provide the necessary equipment in San Diego and Detroit.
As usual, we supplied a wide range of equipment along the race tracks, such as temporary power and air conditioning units, forklifts and light towers.
