Overview Group overview An extensive global presence We have major operations in Australia and North America which account for approximately 85 per cent of the value of our assets, as well as signifi cant businesses in South America, Europe, southern Africa and Asia.
All injury frequency rate reduced to 0.82 from 0.98 Set iron ore production and sales records Progressed transformation of our aluminium business Exceeded targeted controllable operating cost savings View more about our global operations at www.
com Copper Diamonds & Minerals Aluminium The Copper group is one of the worlds largest The group comprises Rio Tinto Diamonds Rio Tinto Alcan is a global leader in the producers of copper, with valuable byRTD, Rio Tinto Minerals RTM and Rio Tinto aluminium industry.
It mines high quality products of gold and molybdenum.
RTD accounts for about bauxite, refi fines alumina for both primary mix of operations and projects are located in six per cent of the worlds production of rough aluminium production and specialty alumina North and South America, Africa, Asia and diamonds by value.
RTM is a global leader markets, and produces primary aluminium at Australia.
In addition to interests in some of in borates and talc supply and of the science some of the lowest cost, most technologically the worlds largest copper mines, it is taking behind their use, and RTIT is a market leader advanced smelters in the industry.
The group is the lead in the development of three of the in titanium dioxide feedstock, used in the renowned for its technology leadership as well worlds largest new copper projects.
manufacture of pigments for paints and plastics.
as its advantaged renewable energy assets.
1 1 1 Number of employees: 7,612 Number of employees: 7,375 Number of employees: 22,919 Products Products Products Copper, Gold, Molybdenum, Silver, Nickel Diamonds, Borates, Titanium dioxide Bauxite, Alumina, Specialty aluminas, Aluminium feedstocks, Talc, High purity iron, Metal Key facts Key facts powders, Zircon, Rutile Integration synergies expected to exceed Strong operating performance in 2009 Key facts US$1.1 billion in 2010 supported by recovering market Businesses oriented to OECD demand Achieved rapid cost reductions and Kennecott Utah Copper production up hence diffi cult conditions production curtailments 37 per cent from 2008 Businesses showing signs Business being transformed in readiness for Copper industry faces future supply of recovery, particularly in Asian markets the economic recovery challenges Diavik Diamonds underground mine starts During the course of the year, aluminium Breakthrough agreement for development production in 2010 prices plummeted by as much as 70 per of major Mongolian copper-gold mine cent from 2008 Commencement of ramp up of Madagascar mineral sands mine Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue 27% 14% 6% More information on page 219 More information on page 219 More information on page 219 4 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information Countries with operations and or projects Energy Iron Ore Global functions Rio Tinto is a leading supplier of thermal and Rio Tinto Iron Ore is the second largest coking coal to the Asian seaborne market supplier to the worlds seaborne iron ore trade Activities that support our businesses as well as being one of the worlds largest and produces direct saleable lump and fi fines uranium producers supplying uranium oxide ore, pellets and concentrates.
It has a global Exploration to electric power utilities worldwide.
Rio Tinto supply capacity to serve both the Pacifi c and The role of the Exploration group is to add Coal Australia manages eight coal mines in Atlantic markets, operating an integrated value to Rio Tinto by discovering or acquiring Queensland and New South Wales.
In the US, platform of mines, rail and port infrastructure resources that can increase future cash fl ows.
the group operates the Colowyo coal mine and including development projects designed It is organised into regional multi-commodity has a 48 per cent interest in Cloud Peak Energy.
to respond rapidly to changes in demand.
It teams, with head offi ces in the UK, the US operates Dampier Salt located near its iron ore 1 Number of employees: 7,613 and Australia, supported by commodity and mines in Australia as well as Rio Tinto Marine.
Programmes are Products 1 Number of employees: 11,375 prioritised on a global basis, with investment decisions driven not by location or choice Thermal coal, Coking coal, Uranium Products of commodity but rather by the quality of Key facts each opportunity.
Iron ore and Salt More robust seaborne coal markets Key facts emerging Operated at full run rate of 220 million fide-bottlenecking of Australian coal export Technology & Innovation tonnes capacity in second half of 2009 ports under way Technology & Innovation has offi ces in Developing plans to produce 330 million New Clermont mine and Kestrel mine Australia, Canada, the UK and the US.
Its tonnes per year expansion on track role is to identify, develop and promote best Uses automated mining technologies operational technology practice across the Nuclear power comeback spells promise including driverless haul trucks Group and to pursue step change innovation of for uranium strategic importance to orebodies of the future.
Contribution to gross sales revenue Contribution to gross sales revenue 15% 29% Notes 1 This is the average Rio Tinto share of employees for managed businesses, excluding contractors and employees More information on page 219 More information on page 219 in businesses classifi ed as assets held for sale during 2009. www.
