Performance Diamonds&Minerals HarryKenyon-Slaney, chiefexecutive, Diamonds&Minerals  TheDiamonds&, borates, talc, titanium dioxidefeedstock, highpurityiron, metalpowders,  .
TheMineralspartof  RTM,  , andRioTintoIron&Titanium RTIT, , highpurityiron, zircon, .
For production and reserves charts see page 62-63.
US$million Revenue 2,618  Keypriorities Operatingcashflow 528 roughdiamonds, borates, talcand  Underlyingearnings 800 titaniumdioxide.
483 2007  331 Prices and exchange   50 In ation .
Volume 167 Costs  PotasioRioColorado PRC projectin 74 Tax and other   474 2008 2010,   298 Price and exchange andemergingeconomies.
 88 Costs   Tax and other 805 , but  800 2009 .
A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22.
 All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
42  Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 0.71 0.58 0.92 0.92 1.43 consortium of historically disadvantaged Strategy Minerals groups, with a further two per cent The Diamonds & Minerals groups core The strategy of the minerals businesses transferred to a trust for the benefi t of purpose is to safely and effi ciently maximise focuses on optimising volumes and product RBM employees.
The remaining 74 per cent shareholder value from mining and marketing mix to supply high value growth sectors in is split equally between BHP Billiton and diamonds and minerals.
The group focuses both mature and emerging markets.
RTMs Rio Tinto with Rio Tinto having been its resources on effi ciency and sustainability foundation businesses have been leaders in appointed as the manager.
Through this in its operations and developments: the borate and talc industries for more than a transaction, RBM has met the ownership responsibility and transparency in its century while RTITs subsidiary, QIT, was the requirements of South Africas Mining relations with neighbouring communities: fi first company to produce titanium dioxide Industry Charter fi five years ahead of the and differentiation in the marketplace slag at its site in Sorel, Quebec in 1950. required empowerment date of 2014. through superior services and technical Minerals markets include automotive, support.
The group has a long and successful The greenfi eld Potasio Rio Colorado PRC construction, telecommunications, track record in developing large scale, long agriculture and consumer products project in Argentina and a second potash life, cost competitive assets.
This close tie to consumer project near Regina in Canada were sold to Our business model focuses on being purchasing patterns resulted in a 30 per cent Vale for a combined gain of US$797 million, the preferred supplier of natural rough decline in demand for minerals products in included in underlying earnings.
diamonds, borates, talc and titanium 2009.
The businesses reduced production Efforts to divest the borate and talc businesses dioxide and associated by-products of high and instituted stringent cost control and were constrained by economic conditions purity iron, steel, metal powders and zircon.
business improvement efforts early in the in 2009: the talc divestment process will We intend to continue to invest in growth year to maintain their resilience in response be renewed in 2010.
Rio Tinto intends to projects in the existing businesses and seek to the downturn.
Economic recovery and retain ownership of the borates business.
Tier 1 development opportunities in new government subsidies helped to stabilise mineral sectors.
these markets toward the end of 2009.
Safety The group maintains R&D facilities in Europe, Safety performance and awareness continued Diamonds Canada and the US to develop new products to be a major focus of all operations.
In 2009 Rio Tintos strategy is to be the preferred and support customers.
the all injury frequency rate AIFR was global supplier of natural rough diamonds 0.71 compared to 0.58 in 2008.
The group and to continue to operate, manage and Key achievements mourned the loss of a colleague at Richards develop world class diamond resources Bay Minerals who died in a fatal incident in Diamonds safely, effi ciently and to the highest possible December 2009.
Construction of the Diavik underground environmental standards.
mine was substantially completed during RTITs Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT improved Rio Tinto has been in the diamond business 2009.
First ore production from the new its safety performance with AIFR improving for 25 years, following the discovery and mine is expected in 2010.
Argyle successfully by six per cent.
QMM and RTMs injury rates development of the Argyle mine in Western implemented a major cost cutting exercise.
deteriorated year on year, but remain low.
Rio Tinto Diamonds is managed A bulk sample processing plant was from London with a facility in Antwerp commissioned at the Bunder project undertaking the sale and marketing of All injury frequency rate in Madhya Pradesh, India.
Rio Tinto Diamonds Per 200,000 hours worked processing ten tonnes per hour, the plant also has representative offi ces in Mumbai will help further assess the value and and New York.
Rio Tintos high value pink grade of the diamond deposit.
diamond sales from the Argyle mine are managed from Perth in Western Australia.
The completion of a new processing module at the Murowa mine will ensure Rio Tinto is essentially a wholesaler of rough the continued viability of the mining diamonds, providing support for its customers operation in the face of hardening ore. in their downstream activities.
Minerals In 2009 the unprecedented fi financial turmoil severely affected demand for rough diamonds The fi first shipments of ilmenite ore from which is highly reliant on the US economy.
QMM to Canada, and of fi nished titanium Rio Tinto acted quickly to minimise operating slag product to a customer, were made and capital costs and slowed the transition to in 2009.
These were major landmarks in underground mining at both the Argyle and a project which, notwithstanding many Diavik mines, as well as reducing production.
complex environmental, social and technical challenges, could become a model for future In the second half of 2009 the diamond projects in the developing world.
05 06 07 08 09 market began to recover as both prices and In December 2009, RTIT concluded a Broad sales volumes improved.
The medium to Based Black Economic Empowerment long term fundamentals for the diamond transaction at Richards Bay Minerals RBM industry are positive with an anticipated For Diamonds, the AIFR improved to 0.66 in South Africa.
Under this transaction, 24 material supply shortfall which will drive compared to 0.93 in 2008.
The Diavik per cent of the equity of RBM was sold to a future price growth.
mine with an AIFR of 0.72 achieved its best www.
com 43 110.7 100.0 102.3 102.7 101.1 Performance Diamonds & Minerals continued safety performance since the mine began The borates and talc businesses secured price First ore is expected during the fi first quarter production in 2003.
The Bunder project in increases which partially offset the 20 to 30 per of 2010 with full production expected to be India remained injury free in 2009. cent declines in demand related to the sluggish achieved in 2013. housing and automotive sectors.
Titanium In 2009, operations at Diavik were suspended Greenhouse gas emissions dioxide feedstock prices held steady, however for six weeks in July as a result of the RTITs revenue decreased by 33 per cent mainly As part of the group planning process each deterioration in global market conditions.
due to lower volumes of titanium dioxide and business unit submits a greenhouse gas a reduction in the price of metallics resulting This suspension, together with lower grade GHG performance review.
in reduced margins on iron, steel and powder feed ore reduced diamond production in products.
The minerals businesses experienced 2009 to 3.3 million carats Rio Tinto share Titanium slag and iron greenhouse gas a signifi cantly stronger fourth quarter as major from 2008 production of 5.5 million carats.
emissions intensity markets started to show signs of economic Open pit mining in A154 neared completion Indexed relative to 2008 recovery.
Decreased rough diamond prices and in 2009, with activity transitioning to sales volumes across all producing diamond the lower grade A418 pipe.
A successful assets adversely affected earnings and winter road transportation season saw the cashfl ow during 2009.
All operations movement of 2,779 truck loads of supplies implemented stringent cost reduction and materials to the site.
Murowa Rio Tinto: 77.8 per cent An impairment charge of US$348 million The Murowa mine has been operating as after tax was recognised on the diamonds a small open pit since 2004 and is owned portfolio assets to reduce their carrying value by Rio Tinto 77.8 per cent and Rio Zim to an estimated recoverable amount.
This is Limited 22.2 per cent, a listed entity.
not included in underlying earnings.
The Diamond groups share of production Rio Tinto Diamonds in 2009 of 97,000 carats was below the 205,000 in 2008 as a result of lower ore Argyle Rio Tinto: 100 per cent grade and a delayed project to deal with The Diamonds group owns and operates changing ore characteristics.
the Argyle diamond mine in Western 05 06 07 08 09 Murowa is considering expanding the Australia.
Argyle owns a niche polished existing open pit to increase production.
pink diamonds business which sells and The previous feasibility study for this markets the loose polished pink diamonds.
RTMs global operations reduced greenhouse expansion is currently being reviewed Production from Argyles open pit mine gas emissions by three per cent per tonne and discussions are being held with is expected to continue through to 2012 of product from 2003 to 2008 and set new the Zimbabwean Government on the after which it is anticipated that the mine reduction targets in 2009.
During 2009 investment environment that is required will transition to underground operations.
RTIT sites undertook audits to identify to underpin this project.
Underground mining is expected to opportunities for GHG and energy reduction.
Bunder Rio Tinto: 100 per cent At Argyle, greenhouse gas intensity During 2009 construction of the underground The Bunder diamond project in India was per carat produced increased in 2009 project was slowed by reducing the project transferred from Rio Tinto Exploration to as a result of processing lower grade ore. workforce and delaying completion of the Diamonds group in November 2008 Argyle is investigating increasing the use development under a programme referred upon completion of the order of magnitude of hydroelectricity in mine operations to as the Low Cost Continuation Plan.
During 2009 a ten tonnes per and improving the diesel effi ciency of production from the underground operation hour bulk sampling treatment plant was the power station.
Greenhouse gas is now expected in 2012.
The plant has commenced intensity per carat produced at Diavik processing in the surface operations processing of bulk samples for further increased in 2009 as construction of the was suspended for 12 weeks due to the evaluation work.
Diavik is deterioration in global market conditions.
working on various projects focused on Rio Tinto Minerals Diavik Rio Tinto: 60 per cent reducing fuel consumption.
Rio Tinto Minerals Rio Tinto: 100 per cent The Diamonds group operates the Diavik Review of operations Diamond Mine, located approximately The business comprises borates and talc 300 kilometres north east of Yellowknife, Sales revenue of the Diamonds & Minerals mines, refi neries, and shipping and packing Northwest Territories, Canada.
It is an group was US$2,618 million in 2009, facilities on fi five continents that operate unincorporated joint venture between US$1,202 million less than in 2008 under the Rio Tinto Minerals banner.
largely as a result of the global economic Rio Tinto and Harry Winston Diamond Approximately 815,000 tonnes of refi ned downturn and the impact it had on Corporation.
Production from Diaviks open borates are produced at Boron Operations, consumer confi dence and spending.
pit operations will continue through to the principal borate mining and refi ning Underlying earnings of US$800 million 2012 after which the mine will transition operation in Californias Mojave Desert.
US$474 in 2008 included a contribution to full production from the underground.
of US$797 million from the sale of potash Construction on the underground project The business operates talc mines assets in Argentina and Canada.
was substantially completed during 2009. including the worlds largest, in southern 44 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information France and processing facilities in Austria, Outlook Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Italy, The diverse markets being served by the Japan, Mexico, Spain and the US.
groups operations continue to be affected by the health of the global economy albeit In 2009 total borates production fell by 30 differentially due to both geography and per cent from 610,000 tonnes of boric oxide market sector.
However, steps towards in 2008 to 424,000 tonnes in 2009, with recovery have been seen in a number of reduced demand in Asia Pacifi c and in the these market sectors.
Total talc production declined by 24 per cent from Diamonds 1,163,000 tonnes in 2008 to 888,000 tonnes Rough prices recovered in the second half in 2009, with sales in Europe offsetting of 2009 though not to the high levels seen volume declines in North America.
The market will continue to be dependent on the recovery of Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium US consumer sentiment though the robust Rio Tinto Fer et Titane growth of jewellery consumption in the formerly QIT Rio Tinto: 100 per cent, smaller but important Chinese and Indian Richards Bay Minerals markets will provide some underlying Rio Tinto: 37 per cent support to both prices and volumes.
QIT Madagascar Minerals Rio Tinto: 80 per cent Minerals RTIT comprises the wholly owned Rio Tinto The minerals businesses experienced a Fer et Titane RTFT in Quebec, Canada, signifi cant slowdown during 2009, and an 80 per cent share in the QMM ilmenite this market weakness is expected to slowly project in Madagascar and a 37 per cent reverse in 2010. interest in and management of Richards Sales volumes are forecast to partially Bay Minerals RBM in KwaZulu-Natal, recover, with more rapid demand recovery South Africa.
in Asia and emerging economies.
Demand is improving in electronics eg fl at Both RTFT and RBM produce titanium dioxide panel displays, circuit boards, and other feedstock used by customers to manufacture components and insulation fi breglass, pigments for paints and surface coatings, plastics paints and coatings.
Building products and paper and the production of titanium metal.
are expected to improve slowly in terms They also produce iron, steel and zircon coof both volumes and prices as the housing products.
QMM produces ilmenite from beach and automotive markets recover.
sands which is shipped to Canada for onward processing into titanium dioxide slag.
The QMM project was completed on schedule: however, cost infl ation and foreign exchange effects increased the cost to US$1.16 billion from the original estimate of US$1.03 billion.
First ilmenite production occurred at the end of 2008 and in 2009 the fi first shipments were made to RTITs facilities in Canada for processing into titanium dioxide feedstocks.
In 2009, titanium dioxide production decreased by 25 per cent compared with 2008 as RTIT responded to reduced demand in its markets following the knock on effect of the slump in construction activity and the weak automotive sector in the second half of the year.
This included an eight week summer shutdown of the ilmenite mine and smelting operations at RTFT.
Markets for iron and steel co-products weakened from 2008, resulting in a signifi cant decrease in earnings.
A modest recovery in metallics pricing has been evident in late 2009 and early 2010. www.
