directors report The directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Transfer of shares financial year ended 30 April 2009.
Certi ed shares i A share transfer form cannot be used to transfer more than one class of share.
Each class needs a separate form.
Principal activities The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment holding ii Transfers may be in favour of more than four joint holders, but the and management company.
The principal activity of the Group is the directors can refuse to register such a transfer.
rental of equipment to industrial and commercial users mainly in the iii The share transfer form must be delivered to the registered of ce, or non-residential construction sectors of the US and the UK.
any other place decided on by the directors.
The transfer form must be accompanied by the share certi cate relating to the shares being Trading results and dividends transferred, unless the transfer is being made by a person to whom The Groups consolidated pro t before taxation for the year was 0.8m the Company was not required to, and did not send, a certi cate.
A review of the Groups performance and future The directors can also ask acting reasonably for any other evidence to development, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the show that the person wishing to transfer the shares is entitled to do so.
Group, is given in the Business and Financial Review on pages 7 to 33 CREST shares and in note 25 to the financial statements.
These disclosures form part i Registration of CREST shares can be refused in the circumstances set of this report.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 0.9p per ordinary out in the Uncerti ed Securities Regulations.
share in February and the directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 1.675p per ordinary share, to be paid on 11 September 2009 ii Transfers cannot be in favour of more than four joint holders.
to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 August Purchase of own shares 2009, making a total dividend for the year of 2.575p 2008: 2.5p.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 September 2008 authority was given for the Company to purchase, on market, up to 52,303,603 ordinary Share capital and major shareholders shares at a maximum price of the higher of i an amount equal to 105% Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 20 to the of the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share as derived financial statements.
from The London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary share Voting rights is agreed to be purchased, and ii the price of the last independent trade Subject to the Articles of Association, every member who is present and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange in person at a general meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every Of cial List at the time the purchase is carried out.
Details of the member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for purchases made during the year are set out in note 20 on page 70. every share of which he or she is the holder.
The Trustees of the Employee Share Option Trust ordinarily follow the guidelines issued So far as the Company is aware, the only holdings of 3% or more of the by the Association of British Insurers and do not exercise their right issued share capital of the Company as at 16 June 2009 the latest to vote at general meetings.
practicable date before approval of the financial statements are as follows: Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, % who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their Standard Life Investments Limited 8 rights to attend and speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting Aviva plc 7 or any class of meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy Ameriprise Financial Inc 5 provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to JP Morgan Chase & Co 5 a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporate member may Lazard Asset Management LLC 5 appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting AXA SA and Group of Companies 5 or any class of meeting as a corporate representative.
The deadline for the Legal & General plc 4 exercise of voting rights is as stated in the notice of the relevant meeting.
Gartmore Investment Limited 4 Morgan Stanley 3 Details of directors interests in the Companys ordinary share capital and in options over that share capital are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 45.
Details of all shares subject to option are given in the notes to the financial statements on page 72.
37 Change of control provisions in loan Policy on payment of suppliers Suppliers are paid in accordance with the individual payment terms agreed agreements with each of them.
The number of Group creditor days at 30 April 2009 A change in control of the Company fide ned, inter alia, as a person or a was 53 days 30 April 2008: 70 days which re ects the terms agreed group of persons acting in concert gaining control of more than 30% of with individual suppliers.
There were no trade creditors in the Companys the Companys voting rights leads to an immediate event of default under balance sheet at any time during the past two years.
the Companys asset-based senior lending facility.
In such circumstances, the agent for the lending group may, and if so directed by more than 50% of the lenders shall, declare the amounts outstanding under the facility Political and charitable donations immediately due and payable.
Charitable donations in the year amounted to 55,329 in total 2008: 24,573.
No political donations were made in either year.
Such a change of control also leads to an obligation, within 30 days of the change in control, for the Group to make an offer to the holders of the Auditors Groups senior secured notes to redeem them at 101% of their combined Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in of ce and in face value of $800m.
accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution concerning its re-appointment and authorising the directors to x its Directors and directors insurance remuneration, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the directors of the Company are given on pages 34 and 35.
The policies related to their appointment and replacement are detailed Annual General Meeting on page 38.
Each of the directors as at the date of approval of this report The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.00pm on Tuesday, con rms, as required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 that 8 September 2009.
Notice of the meeting is set out in the document to the best of their knowledge and belief: accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
1 there is no signi cant information known to the director relevant In addition to the adoption of the 2008 9 Annual Report and Accounts, to the audit, of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the declaration of a final dividend, resolutions dealing with the appointment 2 each director has taken reasonable steps to make himself aware of such and re-election of directors and the resolution dealing with the approval information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of it.
of the Directors Remuneration Report, there are six other matters which will be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
These relate to the The Company has maintained insurance throughout the year to cover all reappointment and remuneration of Deloitte LLP as auditors, the ability directors against liabilities in relation to the Company and its subsidiary for the directors to unconditionally allot shares up to approximately undertakings.
one-third of the Companys share capital, the disapplication of preemption rights in relation to the previous resolution, empowering the Company to buy back up to 15% of its issued share capital and the ability to call a meeting other than a general meeting on not less than 14 days clear notice.
The majority of these resolutions update for a further year similar resolutions approved by shareholders in previous years.
By order of the Board Eric Watkins Company secretary 17 June 2009 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
