Performance Copper Andrew Harding, chief executive, Copper Growth through innovation RioTintos Copper group is a world leader in copper production.
Operations include Kennecott Utah Copper in the US and interests in the producing copper mines of Escondida in Chile, Grasberg in Indonesia, Northparkes in Australia and Palabora in South Africa.
In 2009, the group produced approximately 800,000 tonnes of copper, which places it among the top fi five copper producers in the world.
Gold and molybdenum are also valuable by-products of the groups mines.
In addition to its producing assets, the group has interests in three of the worlds largest undeveloped greenfi eld copper projects.
The group also includes major nickel deposits in the US and Indonesia.
For production and reserves see page 62 Strategy Key priorities 2009 Operational highlights Deliver shareholder value by signifi cantly Exceed the improved safety performance increasing copper production in the in 2009 with a focus on embedding process US$ million medium term.
Revenue 6,206 Operating cash fl ow 2,223 Be an innovative, disciplined acquirer Development of the world class Oyu Tolgoi Underlying earnings 1,866 and developer of value creating assets.
Capital expenditure 553 Optimise and develop the groups At KUC, progress the molybdenum autoclave Net operating assets 5,028 existing assets.
project and continue life of mine extension through local drilling programmes.
Continue to invest in innovative Operating cash flow contribution technologies such as block caving Complete the Northparkes E48 development and sulphide leaching to maintain and ramp up to full production.
leadership in the mines of the future.
The Copper Projects function will maintain Leverage the diverse portfolio of and maximise options around key projects producing and developing mines to and pursue opportunities to accelerate the adapt to changing economic conditions.
16% Achievements Outlook At Kennecott Utah Copper KUC, the Industry fundamentals support a strong concentrator set multiple plant production outlook on price, with robust long term records, including total ore milled and demand and supply side constraints.
Continued price volatility with Also at KUC, the resource development upside potential.
Underlying earnings contribution team identifi ed a new copper- 2007 2009 US$m Industry will be challenged by mines 0 molybdenum-gold porphyry system.
of increasing depth, decreasing grade 3,479 2007 KUC and Escondida both successfully profi les and increasing exposure to 185 Prices and exchange 49 Inflation negotiated new mutually benefi cial higher risk regions.
963 Volume collective bargaining agreements with Gradual transition to underground mines 620 Costs their work forces in 2009. which require higher capital costs and 66 Tax and other 1,597 2008 A landmark investment agreement with investment in innovative technologies.
487 Price and exchange the Government of Mongolia progressed 40 Inflation the development of the Oyu Tolgoi project.
556 Volume RioTinto increased its stake in Ivanhoe 304 Costs Mines to 19.7 per cent.
64 Tax and other 1,866 2009 Kennecott Eagle Nickel successfully A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for addressed certain key legal challenges 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22. to its mine permits in the US.
All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net interest and other centrally reported items.
38 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 0.67 1.06 1.24 1.31 1.26 from open pit to underground, RioTintos which occurred at Palabora.
Overall, the Performance block caving expertise will enable mine life group realised a signifi cant improvement in As markets recovered from the turbulence extensions through access to new high grade the all injury frequency rate AIFR in 2009 of 2008, the Copper group achieved an deposits at greater depths.
RioTinto has with an annual rate of 0.67 compared to increase in underlying earnings of 17 per developed its block caving expertise through 1.06 in 2008. cent in 2009.
This was achieved through its interests in Northparkes, Palabora and cost reductions and higher volumes.
At KUC, the safety strategy is defi ned in a Grasberg.
Future developments are expected Performance highlights included mined three year safety plan which is supported to rely on large scale block caving and include copper production in 2009 up 15 per cent by improvement action plans at the plant, Oyu Tolgoi, Resolution and Bingham Canyon.
over 2008 and refi ned copper production department and individual level.
Key safety up 28 per cent over 2008, following higher The Copper group is not constrained by improvement achievements during 2009 grades and a further improvement in geographic considerations and can work included implementation of the RioTinto performance at Kennecott Utah Copper.
It is Signifi cant Potential Incident SPI reporting committed to the principles of RioTintos code and investigation process: development The Copper groups contribution to of conduct The way we work, with a focus on and roll out of a substantial front line safety underlying earnings increased by US$269 responsible environmental performance and leadership skills improvement programme: million to US$1,866 million due to higher a commitment to strong community relations.
and implementation of new safety controls production at Kenncott Utah Copper and for delivery drivers.
During 2010, KUC Grasberg as well as cost improvements Key achievements will continue safety improvement efforts across the product group.
This was offset with specifi c focus on process safety and The group saw signifi cant achievements by lower copper and molybdenum prices.
at operations and projects during 2009.
At KUC, the Copperton concentrator set Strategy All injury frequency rate multiple plant production records, including The Copper groups strategy is to deliver Per 200,000 hours worked total ore milled 7.6 per cent increase and shareholder value through signifi cantly copper in concentrate produced 28 per cent increasing copper production in the medium increase over the previous year.
This will be achieved by continuing silver in concentrate exceeded 2008 levels to optimise and develop the groups by 58 per cent and 43 per cent respectively.
existing assets and by proactively seeking opportunities to grow the copper portfolio.
KUC and Escondida both successfully Key components of the strategy include negotiated new mutually benefi cial exploring opportunities to improve and collective bargaining agreements with expand existing operations, accelerating the their workforces in 2009. development of key projects, maintaining At Grasberg, expansion of the currently an emphasis on exploration activities, and producing Deep Ore Zone mine to 80,000 pursuing other opportunities for growth.
tonnes per day is essentially complete.
The groups strategy is based on industry At the Oyu Tolgoi project, the Investment fundamentals that support a strong outlook Agreement with the Government of Mongolia on prices, particularly in the medium term.
was completed in October and subsequently Emerging economies, particularly China RioTinto increased its stake in Ivanhoe Mines and India, are expected to continue to drive 05 06 07 08 09 to 19.7 per cent with fi xed price options to copper demand over the coming decade.
On further increase the stake to 43 per cent.
the supply side, the challenges associated Greenhouse gas emissions with fi nding and developing new projects At Palabora, the Broad Based Black Economic will mean that copper supply will likely be The Copper group is committed to continual Empowerment transaction required under constrained in the medium to long term.
improvements in energy management South Africas new Mining Charter is and effi ciency.
Spending on improvement progressing well.
In April, Palabora submitted The group has a set of world class operating projects in 2009 led to substantial progress on a Transaction Framework Agreement bearing assets and a strong portfolio of long term embedding behavioural energy management the signatures of its Broad Based Black greenfi eld projects that allows it the fl exibility initiatives such as reductions in idling of light Economic Empowerment partners.
to adapt to changing economic conditions.
duty vehicles and improving electrical energy Investment plans are rigorously evaluated in At the Kennecott Eagle nickel project, a demand management systems at KUC.
light of evolving market conditions.
judge affi rmed the Michigan Department In 2009, KUC reported for the fi first time to of Environmental Qualitys issuance of key While certain investments have been delayed the Climate Registry, a multi-state voluntary permits for the mine.
This put all of the in response to recent macro-economic greenhouse gas reporting system.
KUCs necessary state permits for the project into conditions, RioTinto believes it has the overall greenhouse gas emissions intensity effect.
Production is being targeted for 2013. capability and experience to develop and decreased, primarily due to effi ciencies expand its portfolio of assets when economic associated with higher copper production.
RioTinto is Safety continued to be a major focus in 2009 investing in the application of innovative In 2010, the Copper group anticipates at all operations.
Despite the continued technologies including block caving, additional progress in greenhouse gas emphasis, there was one fatality at Copper automation, fl ash converter smelting and and energy management across the group managed operations during the year, sulphide leaching.
As copper mining shifts business portfolio.
com 39 81.3 100.0 72.7 84.6 74.6 Performance Copper continued Escondida RioTinto: 30 per cent historically disadvantaged South Africans in Copper cathode greenhouse gas management positions.
This key milestone The Escondida copper mine located in Chiles emissions intensity is a crucial step in securing New Order Atacama Desert is the largest copper mine in Indexed relative to 2008 Mineral Rights in terms of the Mining the world in terms of annual production.
The Minerals and Petroleum Billiton owns 57.5 per cent of Escondida and Resource Development Act required mines is the operator and product sales agent.
in South Africa to be at least 15 per cent During the fi first half of 2009, concentrate owned by historically disadvantaged South production was impacted by the Laguna Seca Africans by April 2009.
This requirement SAG mill being operated at a reduced rate will increase to 26 per cent by 2014.
On 30 to limit the risk of failures.
These problems April, 2009 Palabora signed and submitted a were successfully resolved during a 32 day Transaction Framework Agreement bearing full stoppage of the concentrator in July the signatures of its Broad Based Black and August.
The combined effect of lower Economic Empowerment partners.
Palabora ore head grade and increased ore hardness is working with the other parties to the resulted in lower recoveries and reduced transaction to fi nalise this agreement and concentrate production.
This was partially present it to shareholders of Palabora for offset by an increase in cathode production approval in the fi first half of 2010. due to improved recoveries and increased ore Copper concentrate production was 5.5 stacking on the leach stockpiles.
05 06 07 08 09 per cent lower than 2008 mainly due to a Future growth options at Escondida are 58 per cent decrease in tonnes of low grade driven by current brownfi eld exploration concentrate reclaimed from settling ponds.
There is a signifi cant exploration Diamond drilling has been re-initiated to drilling programme on a number of potential Kennecott Utah Copper delineate the copper reserves immediately deposits around the Escondida lease area, RioTinto: 100 per cent below the current mining horizon.
with positive results already announced at KUC operates the Bingham Canyon mine, Northparkes Mines Pampa Escondida.
Copperton concentrator and Garfi eld smelter RioTinto: 80 per cent and refi nery complex near Salt Lake City, Utah.
Grasberg The Northparkes copper-gold mine in RioTinto: 40 per cent of joint In 2009 the Copperton concentrator set central New South Wales, Australia, operates venture production multiple plant production records.
Milled ore both underground block cave mines and of just under 53 million tonnes topped the Grasberg, located in the province of open-cut mines on its mining leases.
record established in 2008 by 7.6 per cent.
Papua in Indonesia, is one of the worlds Northparkes is a joint venture with the Copper in concentrate also reached a new largest copper and gold mines in terms of Sumitomo Group 20 per cent.
In November high in 2009 of 303,536 tonnes, a 28 per reserves and production.
It is owned and 2006, the joint venture partners approved cent increase over the previous year.
Gold operated by Freeport Indonesia PTFI, the development of the E48 block cave and silver in concentrate improved in 2009, which is 91 per cent owned by US based project, which is expected to cost US$160 exceeding 2008 levels by 58 per cent and Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. million and extend the mines life to 2023.
43 per cent respectively, whilst molybdenum The Government of Indonesia owns the As a response to economic conditions at concentrate production increased 11 per cent.
remaining nine per cent of PTFI.
The joint the end of 2008 the completion of the venture gives RioTinto a 40 per cent share E48 project was deferred but restarted Recent exploration at the Bingham of production above specifi ed levels until in October 2009.
Copper production at Canyon mine has identifi ed a new copper- 2021 and 40 per cent of all production Northparkes exceeded 2008 production by molybdenum-gold porphyry system beneath after 2021, as well as representation on 38 per cent.
Underground production was the current open pit disclosed in March operating and technical committees.
largely sourced from the E26 Lift 2 North 2009.
The molybdenum deposit is between block cave, with production from the E48 450-550 million tonnes at a grade of 0.1- Operations in 2009 accelerated mining block cave project in the last quarter.
The average higher grade sections of the Grasberg cut production was used to maintain full grade of the molybdenum in the open pit pit, resulting in higher grades than in mill capacity.
The E22 open pit produced reserve is 0.045 per cent molybdenum.
Grasbergs 2009 production levels 6.8 million tonnes, which exceeded plan by were well above the level at which metal Current ore reserves are expected to enable 14 per cent during the year.
The E22 mining becomes attributable to RioTinto, and open pit operations to continue until 2020 sequence is expected to be completed were substantially higher than in 2008. with additional mineral resources potentially by August 2010.
Higher volumes of ore The expansion of the currently producing extending the open pit mine life to 2032. were processed in 2009 due to a higher Deep Ore Zone mine to 80,000 tonnes per proportion of softer underground ore.
Evaluation of open pit expansion options at day is essentially complete.
the mine continued through the Keystone Palabora RioTinto: 57.7 per cent project.
A pre-feasibility study is expected to be completed in 2010 potentially allowing Palabora Mining Company is a publicly conversion of signifi cant open pit resource to listed company on the Johannesburg reserve.
Study of the underground expansion Stock Exchange and operates a mine and option was temporarily halted in 2009 due to smelter complex in South Africa.
Palabora the global economic downturn.
achieved a 42 per cent rate of employing 40 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information and concentrator concepts, with initial promised in the agreement.
Oyu Tolgoi has a Development projects indications of enhanced value.
potential average production rate of 450,000 Resolution Copper RioTinto: 55 per cent tonnes of copper per year over the mine life Kennecott Eagle Minerals The Resolution copper deposit is located with signifi cant gold by-products.
It is also RioTinto: 100 per cent in Arizona, US and within the most prolifi c geographically positioned to supply growing copper producing belt in North America.
The Eagle deposit located in Michigan, US, is Asian copper markets.
Though evaluation is ongoing, the Resolution nearing readiness to commence construction project appears to host the largest copper Outlook and has the potential to form the foundation deposit in North America, capable of of a profi table long term nickel business for There is signifi cant opportunity for a long producing an estimated 600,000 tonnes of RioTinto.
The project is located in North term increase in copper demand, with growth copper per annum.
Although the ultimate size America near well developed infrastructure.
in China being a major driver.
Prices may be of the deposit has not been fully defi ned, it is RioTintos privately owned mineral title volatile, but this highlights the value of long characterised by consistent plus one per cent of about 182,000 hectares in this region is life assets.
Copper supply will be constrained in copper mineralisation over an area of at least extensive and is highly prospective for the the long term and trends in copper mining may two kilometres in an east-northeast direction discovery of additional deposits of greater size also lend support to higher prices.
The industry and 1.5 kilometres in a north-northwest will be challenged by decreasing grade profi les, and equal or better mineralisation.
Before the pre-feasibility studies new developments in higher risk regions 2009, Eagle was successful in addressing legal can be completed and the mine developed, and deeper deposits, leading to increased challenges to issued mine permits by local Resolution Copper needs to acquire title to production from underground workings.
opponents and received fi final approval of all the small Oak Flat area that lies adjacent to necessary state permits.
Although global copper reserves and existing unpatented mining claims hosting resources are suffi cient for several decades, Sulawesi Nickel Rio Tinto: 100 per cent the mineralisation.
In return for this land, reserve and resource grades are progressively Resolution Copper will transfer to the US The Sulawesi Nickel project is on the island of declining.
Greenfi eld exploration in under government over 2,200 hectares of high Sulawesi in Indonesia.
Rio Tinto was granted explored countries offers some potential to priority conservation lands.
The Southeast a mining permit IUP from the Indonesian reverse this trend through new surface copper Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources on discoveries.
However, the full potential of Act has been formally introduced in both 25 February 2010.
This tenure was granted these countries to support major production houses of Congress to achieve this goal.
The under the new mining law Minerba which may be undermined by sovereign risk factors.
2010 work programme will focus primarily on came into effect in mid January 2009.
Deeper discoveries are appearing in known completing studies to support the preparation Rio Tinto will now move forward with districts as exploration occurs around of an environmental impact study in order to reviewing development options for the surface deposits such as Bingham Canyon.
satisfy the terms of the land exchange bill.
Rio Tinto Some of these brownfi eld discoveries is also working closely with the regional La Granja RioTinto: 100 per cent have unusually high copper and bygovernments and communities as planning product grades.
Innovation in mining and The La Granja copper project is located in for the project progresses.
processing technology may reduce the costs the Cajamarca region of northern Peru and of production from underground resources.
is in the pre-feasibility study phase.
Oyu Tolgoi RioTinto: 19.7 per cent Given future demand forecasts, future interest in Ivanhoe Mines Limited As part of the pre-feasibility study that copper prices will depend on the relative is in progress, recent drilling results at La In October 2006 RioTinto purchased a stake success of greenfi eld discovery, brownfi eld Granja further confi rm the mineral resource of just under ten per cent in Ivanhoe Mines discovery and innovation in mining and estimate and enable a wider range of mining Limited in order to jointly develop the Oyu processing.
With RioTintos portfolio and processing options than previously Tolgoi copper-gold resource in Mongolias of world class assets, combined with its considered.
The full extent of the porphyry, South Gobi region.
Ivanhoe Mines owns strategy of signifi cantly increasing copper breccia and skarn-hosted deposit has yet to 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi.
In October 2009 production, the group is expected to remain be determined, and drilling is planned to RioTinto completed its second tranche an industry leader for years to come.
continue during 2010 with investigation of with Ivanhoe Mines Limited to increase the options, both to improve the business its ownership by 9.8 per cent to 19.7 per case and to defi ne the potential size and life cent.
On 1 March 2010 Rio Tinto agreed to of a mining operation.
acquire a further 2.7 per cent to bring its ownership to 22.4 per cent.
RioTinto has Previously the pre-feasibility study focused on the right to progressively increase its stake demonstrating the possibility of recovering to 43 per cent over the next three years at copper metal from various porphyry systems pre-determined prices.
in which chalcopyrite dominant ore would use heap leach technology.
The study wound Also in October 2009 RioTinto signed an down in 2009 due to fi financial constraints, Investment Agreement with the Mongolian and evaluation work entered a divergent Government.
The agreement outlines phase to assess the potential of the new substantial benefi ts to the local community geological discoveries and to identify higher and the people of Mongolia.
Since the initial value, lower risk options for development.
discovery, more than 4,000 Mongolians have Other options now being investigated include been employed and currently 90 per cent concentrator only and hybrid heap leach of the project workforce is Mongolian as www.
