our group at a glance Ashtead Group provides solutions for customers who need a quick, ef cient and cost effective service.
We provide equipment that lifts, powers, generates, moves, digs, supports, scrubs, pumps, directs, ventilates whatever the job needs.
of stores A-Plant 2,100 Employees 208m Revenues The second largest 16m equipment rental Pro ts company with 122 depots throughout England, 5.1% Return on Investment Scotland and Wales what we do We rent equipment on exible terms so that our customers centres are located where they are most required and we can focus on what they do best rather than maintaining guarantee our service.
Whether customers need a small and servicing equipment they may use only periodically.
hand held tool or the largest aerial work platform, our staff We make sure the equipment is there when it needs to be are there, able and willing, to help our customers ensure and is ready to work immediately and ef ciently.
Our pro t the job gets done.
On-site tool hire and Facilitating maintenance for t-out a new residential and ongoing construction maintenance for site.
Designing and implementing traf c Replacing management worn out systems.
Advising on health and safety aspects of equipment in use at new sports stadium.
of stores Sunbelt 6, 100 Employees $1, 450m Revenues The third largest $2 42m Pro ts equipment rental business in the US market with 398 10.
8% stores in 35 states Return on Investment Return on Investment is fide ned as underlying operating pro t divided by the weighted average cost of capital employed shareholders funds plus net debt and net tax liabilities, minus plus the pension fund surplus fide cit.
Equipment types Customer base A broad range of construction and industrial equipment Construction industry, facilities management, disaster relief including earthmoving equipment, aerial work platforms, agencies, sport and music event organisers, governments, high reach forklifts and other materials handling units, local authorities, homeowners.
smaller tools, pumps, power generation, portable site accommodation, scaffolding, formwork and falsework, Installing generators, and temporary traf c management equipment.
lighting and temporary accommodation units for an outdoor music festival.
Providing ongoing facilities management for a new shopping centre complex.
Providing an on-site hire depot and Contractors Village for a long term hospital construction project.
Drying out and cleaning up after a ash ood at an industrial warehouse.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
