bu siness and financial review continued pr incipal risks and uncertainties The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties and it is managements role to manage those risks.
Ian Robson The Group faces a number of risks and The competitive trading environment in which we operate helps maintain our business focus on creating commercial advantage by providing our uncertainties in its day-to-day operations customers with a high level of service, consistently, and at a price they and it is managements role to mitigate consider good value.
We regularly estimate and monitor our market share and track the performance of our competitors to ensure that we are and manage these risks.
The Board has performing effectively.
established a formal risk management People process which has identi ed the following Our ability to attract and retain good people is key to delivering superior performance and customer service.
We believe we provide attractive principal risks and uncertainties which could remuneration packages that reward and incentivise our staff, many of affect employees, operations, revenues, whom remain with us for much of their careers, thus preserving our skills base.
If we were to suffer excessive staff turnover then it is likely that pro ts, cash ows and assets of the Group.
there would be an impact on our ability to maintain the appropriate Economic conditions quality of service to our customers which would ultimately adversely The construction industry in which we earn the majority of our revenues impact our financial performance.
is cyclical with construction industry cycles typically lagging the general Health and safety economic cycle by between six and 18 months.
We recognise that we The Board is determined to ensure that our businesses provide a safe operate in a cyclical industry and expect that demand for our products working environment for all our employees.
We also have substantial and services will decline during the down phase of the cycle.
As a result processes in place to help support our customers exercise their we seek to manage our operations prudently through the different phases responsibility to their own workforces when using our equipment.
of the cycle to our competitive advantage.
We have also arranged our We maintain appropriate health and safety policies and procedures capital structure and our debt facilities in recognition of the cyclical nature to reasonably guard our employees against risk and reinforce these of our industry.
procedures through appropriate training and induction programmes.
Competition Failures in our health and safety practices could have an adverse impact The Group operates in a highly competitive market.
While there are on individuals, attract financial penalties or harm our reputation.
a small number of large companies, such as ourselves, operating on a national basis in each of our markets, there are also a large number of much smaller competitors at a local level.
Considerable barriers to entry make it unlikely that additional national competitors will emerge in the short to medium term due to the signi cant effort and resources needed to develop the suitable IT systems, personnel, locations and equipment eets required to operate on a national scale.
However, on a local basis there is considerable churn amongst our smaller competitors.
27 Acquisitions The risk that the Groups existing facilities become unavailable for any It is part of the Groups strategy at the appropriate time in the reason is substantially mitigated by the form of facilities chosen by the construction cycle to acquire businesses in our core markets which Group as discussed under net debt on page 31 which results in there add value.
We recognise the risks associated in acquiring businesses being effectively no quarterly monitored financial covenants to adhere and mitigate the risk of failure of an acquisition through a rigorous to and also in the Group maintaining substantial availability on its acquisition process, which is overseen by the Board.
We undertake asset-based senior bank debt.
The Group maintains close contacts with detailed operational and financial due diligence to ensure particularly the providers of all its debt facilities to ensure they have timely access that operational risks are identi ed and appropriately factored into to all the information about the Group that they require.
our valuation of the target.
Risks associated with the post-acquisition The liquidity risk, relating to the continued availability to the Group integration of an acquired business are mitigated through the of suf cient debt facilities is managed rstly by the long maturity pro le development of a rigorous integration plan with close management in the Groups existing facilities which have an average remaining term and monitoring to ensure synergies are realised fully.
Within this the earliest maturity is of the Information technology asset-based senior bank debt facility where the existing commitment Our businesses involve us in tracking and recording a high volume of expires on 31 August 2011.
The finance director reports regularly to the relatively low value transactions.
For example we own over 280,000 Board on the management of our debt liquidity pro le.
units of rental equipment and in the past year entered into 2.4m rental Suppliers contracts which are tracked and controlled using fully integrated The inability to obtain the right equipment and parts at the right time for computer systems in the US and UK.
We are therefore heavily dependent a reasonable cost could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial on the robustness of the application software and network infrastructure performance.
We have established close relationships with suppliers that which delivers these systems.
have a strong reputation for product quality and reliability and good Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have invested in sophisticated and well after-sales service and support.
We believe the Group also has suf cient protected data centres with multiple data links to protect against the alternative sources of supply for the equipment it purchases in each of risk of failure and consequently ensure these systems are on-line to all its product categories.
The size and scale of our business and of our rental our locations every working day.
A serious uncured failure in this area eets also enables us to negotiate favourable delivery, pricing, warranty would have an immediate effect so each business also maintains separate and other terms with our suppliers.
near-live back-up data centres which are designed to be able to provide Environmental the necessary services in the event of a failure at the primary site.
Our operations are subject to numerous laws governing environmental Both businesses have also prepared detailed business recovery plans protection and occupational health and safety matters.
These laws which are tested periodically.
regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous Compliance with laws and regulations wastes and materials, and air quality.
Under these laws, we may be The regulatory environment changes frequently imposing a continuing liable for, among other things, the cost of investigating and remediating need on the Group to ensure that it has appropriate processes in place contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous to achieve compliance with relevant legislation.
The Groups policies and wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault, and also fines and practices therefore evolve as we update them to take account of changes penalties for non-compliance.
Our training and induction programmes are designed Our operations generally do not raise signi cant environmental risks, but to ensure that our staff receive appropriate training and brie ng on the we use potentially hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, policies relevant to their position and function in the organisation.
dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment This is underpinned by a Group-wide ethics policy and whistle-blowing washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground arrangements, by which employees may, in con dence, raise concerns and above-ground storage tanks located at some of our locations.
We take about any alleged improprieties.
Failures in these processes could result our environmental and health and safety responsibilities seriously and in reputational damage or financial penalty.
have very stringent policies and procedures in place at all our depots to Accounting and treasury help minimise undue impact on the environment and keep our employees There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies may occur if our safe.
More on this can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
financial and operational control framework is inadequate.
This could result in a misstatement of the Groups financial performance.
The Group believes that it has established a robust internal financial control framework to mitigate this risk.
The Groups trading and financial activities expose it to various financial risks which, if left unmanaged, could adversely affect current or future earnings.
Principal amongst these are the risks that either the Groups existing debt facilities become unavailable by virtue of non-compliance with the terms of those agreements or that the Group fails to replace existing facilities prior to their maturity and consequently has inadequate debt facilities available to it to meet its borrowing requirements.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
