21 bu siness and financial review continued our business model Broad range of fleet Sunbelt A-Plant 22% 16% Aerial work platforms 13% Forklifts 4% Earth moving 10% 7% Accommodation 5% Pump and power 19% 5% 36% Acrow 5% Traffic 11% 29% 18% Scaffold Other The Group focuses on equipment rental.
During 2008 9 approximately we also aim to offer a full service solution for our customers.
Our 91% of our revenue was derived from equipment rental and rental-related product range includes specialist equipment types such as pump and services, with the balance coming from sales of new and used equipment, power, scaffolding and traf c management systems, which involve parts and associated goods, such as equipment accessories.
The Group providing service expertise as well as equipment: believes that this focused and dedicated approach improves the we invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service systems.
effectiveness of our rental sales force by encouraging them to build We use these systems not only to help us manage our business to deliver and reinforce relationships with customers and to concentrate on strong, strong financial returns, but also to meet the needs of our customers.
whole-life returns from our rental fleet, rather than on short term returns We deployed some of the first extranets in the industry in both the US from sales of equipment.
and UK to provide qualifying customers with complete information on the equipment they have on rent and the status of their account.
We use Our operating model is key to the way we deliver returns and PDAs to capture and record the time of delivery and the customers encompasses the following elements: signature electronically, allowing us to systematically monitor and report our local management teams are strong and highly incentivised, on on-time deliveries.
We also use electronic tracking systems to producing superior financial returns and high quality standards.
Many monitor and secure the location and usage of large equipment.
of our most senior people started their careers by working in the front In the US we have recently concluded a project to develop price modelling line at a pro t centre: software suitable for use in our high transaction volume, low value in the US we achieve scale through a clustered market approach industry.
This software, which is being deployed to our sales force through of grouping our rental locations into clusters of three to 15 locations use of smartphone-based technology, will we believe represent the first in each of our developed markets throughout the US.
Sunbelt has consistent application of these techniques in our industry.
We anticipate developed such clustered markets in 34 major cities including that this investment will mean that our sales force will have immediately Washington DC, Dallas, Houston, Charlotte, Atlanta, Orlando and to hand in a usable format the data they require to reach appropriate and Seattle.
This approach allows us to provide a comprehensive product consistent pricing decisions throughout our business.
offering and convenient service to our customers wherever their job sites may be within these markets: in the smaller geography of the UK, our strategy is focused on having suf cient pro t centres to allow us to offer a full range of equipment on a nationwide basis.
We continue to invest in migrating our network towards larger locations which are able to address all the needs of our customers in the major markets: we provide a wide range of equipment within our rental eets to maximise the extent to which we can ful l our customers needs: Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 bu siness and financial review continued our business model Return on Investment ahead of cost of capital across the cycle % 20 15 10 5 0 Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 06 06 06 06 07 07 07 07 08 08 08 08 09 09 Our rental eets Return on Investment Our fleet mix is broadly similar to that of our large peers.
However, we One of the key performance indicators we use to monitor our businesses differentiate our business both by emphasising smaller equipment types at all levels is return on investment RoI.
For the Group as a whole our which we believe offer the potential for higher returns and in the manner objective is always to ensure that, averaged across the economic cycle, in which we incentivise our staff.
It is the needs of our customers and we deliver RoI well ahead of our cost of capital.
This continues to be the overall demand that drive the composition of our equipment fleet, case as shown by the chart above.
with the size, age and mix of our equipment rental fleet driven by our The Group maximises its return on investment through encouraging diversi ed customer base.
The equipment we provide to each customer effective management of invested capital by: is equally diverse and we are often involved in supplying various types of different equipment over a number of years at each distinct stage maintaining a concentration of higher-return often specialised of a projects development.
equipment within the overall rental equipment fleet: promoting the transfer of equipment to locations where maximum The breadth of our fleet mix supports our ability to service not only the utilisation rates and returns can be obtained: rental opportunities that exist in new-build construction, but also in a monitoring the amount of invested capital at each of our pro t wide range of other applications including industrial, events and facilities centres: and management.
We believe in ensuring a balanced mix of business empowering regional and local managers to adapt pricing policies throughout the cycle which allows us to mitigate the extremes of in response to local demand in order to maximise the overall return particular sectors.
We will, however, continue to develop our portfolio of achieved from the investment in our rental fleet.
larger national and regional accounts utilising the scale and geographical footprint the NationsRent acquisition provided.
The larger accounts will cover a range of both construction and industrial markets.
Over the coming year we anticipate that investment in our fleet will be for replacement rather than growth.
23 Diversified customer base Sunbelt A-Plant 14% 33% 12% Commercial construction 6% Government & institutional 9% Industrial, manufacturing 9% & agriculture 14% Infrastructure 9% Non-construction services 40% 11% Residential construction 11% 3% 14% 6% 9% Small contractor Speciality trade contractors Our customers However, the Groups geographical scale and diversi ed customer base Our business is highly diverse.
Our customers range in size and scale from assist in mitigating the adverse impact of these factors on the Groups multinational businesses, through strong local contractors to individual performance through: do-it-yourselfers.
In the year to April 2009, Sunbelt dealt with over reducing the impact of localised economic uctuations on our overall 650,000 customers, wrote 2.0m rental contracts with an average value of financial performance: $540 per contract and issued over 2.5m invoices.
A-Plant, though smaller, reducing our dependence on any particular customer or group of is almost as diverse.
In 2008 9 it dealt with over 34,000 customers, wrote customers: and 0.4m rental contracts with an average value of 380 per contract and enabling us to meet the needs of larger customers who have a wide issued 0.9m invoices.
In the UK, we have focused in recent years, on building deeper relationships with our larger customers with the top 150 accounting Our suppliers for 50% of A-Plants 2008 9 revenues.
Like other large participants in the industry and in favourable market The Groups diversi ed customer base includes construction, industrial conditions, the Group purchases large amounts of equipment, parts and and homeowner customers, as well as government entities and specialist other items from its suppliers.
This year, however, our capital expenditure contractors and is analysed by Standard Industry Classi cation in the on rental equipment was limited to replacement rather than expansion tables above.
of our fleet as both the US and UK economies slowed.
We have worked with a lot of our customers for many years.
Our experience Across our rental fleet, we generally seek to carry equipment from one is that we gain a large amount of repeat business.
Our operating methods or two manufacturers in each product range and to limit the number of and focus on customer service aim to support and enhance this.
We model types of each product.
We believe that having a standardised fleet guarantee our service standards in both our businesses and voluntarily results in lower costs because we obtain greater discounts by purchasing accept financial penalties if we fail to meet our commitments to our spare parts in bulk and reduce maintenance costs through more focused, customers.
We believe that our focus on customer service and these and therefore reduced, training requirements for our workshop staff.
guarantees help distinguish our businesses from competitors and assist We are also able to share spare parts between pro t centres which helps us in delivering superior financial returns.
to minimise the risk of over-stocking.
As a large portion of the Groups customer base comes from the We purchase equipment from vendors with strong reputations for product commercial construction and industrial sectors, the Group is dependent quality and reliability and maintain close relationships with these vendors on levels of commercial construction or industrial activity.
The factors to ensure good after-purchase service and support.
However, we believe which in uence this activity include: the Group has suf cient alternative sources of supply for the equipment it purchases in each of its product categories.
the strength of the US and UK economies over the long term, including the level of government spending: the availability of finance and the level of interest rates: and demand within business that drives the need for commercial construction or industrial equipment.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 bu siness and financial review continued our business model Improved staff retention Sunbelt A-Plant % % % 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 Our people Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have extensive programmes in place to ensure the: We are a service business and we differentiate ourselves by the strength recruitment of appropriate personnel to ful l any vacancies caused of our service offering.
Central to our service offering is our people.
We have by promotion or turnover: a strong team which numbered almost 8,200 people at 30 April 2009. ongoing training and development of employees at all levels throughout This year, as part of our cost reduction programme, it has been necessary the organisation: to reduce the overall size of our workforce.
The nature of our business is alignment of our employees with the Companys objectives, particularly such that we require skilled individuals working within a highly devolved in relation to customer service: and structure and we have tried hard to ensure that, despite the need to lower appraisal, review and reward of our employees.
costs, we have preserved these cultural strengths.
These processes are subject to periodic review and development especially The rental industry generally suffers from high staff turnover, particularly in response to changing business needs and market conditions.
within certain job categories such as outside sales and delivery truck We motivate and reward our people through our pro t share programmes drivers, with turnover being particularly high within the first year of which ensure that driving our return on investment is an important part employment.
We have made generally good progress in improving our of our reward programmes.
Our sales force is also incentivised based on staff retention in recent years as shown in the chart above.
sales volume and a broad measure of return on investment determined by reference to equipment type and discount level.
We invest heavily in training and last year Sunbelt staff attended over 9,700 classroom training sessions with a further 18,700 web-based sessions undertaken, whilst A-Plant staff attended over 2,400 sessions.
