Gary Iceton Non-executive chairman Independent non-executive director Aged 62, Chris Cole has been a director since January 2002 and was Aged 59, Gary Iceton was appointed as a non-executive director and appointed as non-executive chairman from 1 March 2007.
Chris is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees effective from chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Finance 1 September 2004.
Gary also became chairman of the Remuneration and Administration Committee.
He is chief executive of WSP Group plc.
Until 2000 he was a director of St Ives plc and chairman and chief executive of its Books Division.
More recently, he was chairman of Jarrold Limited and, prior to that, chief executive of cer of Amertrans.
With effect from 23 April 2008 he was appointed Executive directors a director of Norfolk Education Industry & Commerce Group Limited.
Geoff Drabble Independent non-executive director Chief executive Aged 56, Michael Burrow was appointed as a non-executive director Aged 49, Geoff Drabble was appointed as chief executive on 1 January and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 2007, having served as chief executive designate from 2 October 2006 effective from 1 March 2007.
Michael was formerly managing director and as a non-executive director since April 2005.
Geoff was previously of the Investment Banking Group of Lehman Brothers Europe Limited.
an executive director of The Laird Group PLC where he was responsible for its Building Products division.
Prior to joining The Laird Group, he held 9.
Bruce Edwards a number of senior management positions at Black & Decker.
Geoff is Independent non-executive director chairman of the Finance and Administration Committee and a member Aged 54, Bruce Edwards was appointed as a non-executive director on of the Nomination Committee.
8 June 2007 and a member of the Nomination Committee effective from 26 February 2009.
Bruce is the global chief executive of cer for Exel 3.
Ian Robson Supply Chain at Deutsche Post World Net, and a member of its board Finance director of management.
He joined DPWN following its acquisition of Exel PLC in Aged 50, Ian Robson has been finance director since June 2000.
Prior to the acquisition, he was a director of Exel PLC and to June 2000, Ian held a series of senior financial positions at Reuters chief executive of its Americas businesses.
Bruce is also a non-executive Group plc for four years.
Before joining Reuters Group plc, he was director of Greif Inc, a NYSE-listed packaging and container manufacturer.
a partner at Price Waterhouse now  LLP.
He is an American citizen and lives in Columbus, Ohio.
Ian is a member of the Finance and Administration Committee.
Joe Phelan President and chief executive of cer, Sunbelt Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can Aged 52, Joe Phelan was appointed a director on 23 April 2009. be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Joe was formerly the chief executive of cer of DHL Global Mail based in Weston, Florida and was also a member of Deutsche Posts executive committee.
Prior to joining DHL in 2004, he held a number of senior executive positions with American Airlines.
Joe is an American citizen and lives in Weston, Florida.
Sat Dhaiwal Chief executive of cer, A-Plant Aged 40, Sat Dhaiwal has been chief executive of cer of A-Plant and a director since March 2002.
Sat was managing director of A-Plant East, one of A-Plants four operational regions, from May 1998 to March 2002.
Before that he was an A-Plant trading director from 1995 and, prior to 1995, managed one of A-Plants pro t centres.
Hugh Etheridge Senior independent non-executive director Aged 59, Hugh Etheridge has been a director, chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees since January 2004.
Hugh was appointed as senior independent non-executive director on 1 March 2007.
He is chief Key: financial of cer of the Waste and Resources Action Programme WRAP, a non-pro t organisation established by the UK Government Audit Committee to promote sustainable waste management.
Before joining WRAP, he Remuneration Committee was finance director of Waste Recycling Group plc and prior to that, Nomination Committee of Matthew Clark plc.
Finance and Administration Committee Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
