Performance Technology & Innovation Step change to confer advantage Technology & Innovation T&I consists of a and value delivery in 2009, resulting in designated Pit A, which is located at the central team of technology professionals and signifi cant improvement in maintenance West Angelas mine in the Pilbara.
Pit A a number of technology centres that develop work management performance, higher plant combines autonomous drilling, semileading practice and promote improvements reliability and lower maintenance costs.
autonomous blast loading with autonomous in mining, processing, asset management, trucks, and a wide range of advanced sensing The IPT processing programme was strategic production planning, energy use, and telecommunications technologies.
The instrumental in improving operational and project development, execution and Pit A site is fully integrated with the Iron Ore performance at processing plants across evaluation.
Emphasis is given to shared and Operations Centre in Perth.
The Pit A trial the Group by focusing on core metallurgical visible measures of operational effectiveness, programme moved into full trial operation capability and delivery.
For example at the improvement of analytical tools and in the second quarter of 2009 and continued Kennecott Utah Copper, the collaborative development of staff capabilities.
throughout 2009 with a zero lost time injury IPT engagement improved underlying record.
The autonomous haul fl fleet moved concentrator performance by up to 14 per Most work is focused on improving current approximately 16.2 million tonnes in 2009. cent through a combination of sustainable technologies and operations.
In addition, In September 2009, Rio Tinto announced improvements in throughput, recovery and the Innovation Centre focuses on technology the formation of the Ro fide Cobre cost reductions step changes that will confer competitive technology alliance with the Chilean copper advantage in development of orebodies likely The IPT payload management initiative producer Codelco.
The alliance allows for an to be available to the Group in the future.
The delivered further improvements across many unparalleled level of technical collaboration Energy & Climate Strategy Centre focuses on of the Groups mines in 2009.
The average to take place between the two companies, improving the Groups use of energy, reducing load carried by the Groups haul truck fl fleet which will help develop solutions to tackle greenhouse gas emissions and understanding increased by an annualised rate of more than the challenges posed by the need for massive, the effects of climate change on the Groups 100 million tonnes more than the annual increasingly underground, copper production operations and prospects.
tonnes mined by the Mount Tom Price iron ore in the decades to come.
The initiative reduced load variability The total number of employees in T&I at The Groups capabilities in the fi eld of by fi five per cent from 2008.
At several of the year end was 267 compared with 351 at mineral recovery were enhanced by the Pilbara Iron sites this improved control of year end 2008.
As a result of the global formation of a long term partnership with loading was the key factor in increasing the downturn T&I has focused staff on delivery the Julius Kruttschnitt Mineral Research design capacity of new truck bodies.
of the most value accretive opportunities.
The Rio Tinto The T&I gross cost in 2009 was US$134 million, Centre for Advanced Mineral Sorting will Strategy compared with US$158 million in 2008. continue work on advancing breakthrough T&Is strategy is to: technology targeted to remove barren Innovation material, initially from copper ore, in order to Maintain and promote a safe T&Is Innovation Centre identifi es, either signifi cantly lift current head grades or working environment.
evaluates and implements value accretive recover economically viable head grade feed Continue to embed operational step change mining technologies with from mineralised waste streams.
Energy & Climate Strategy Maximise the contribution of technology The Group continues to pursue the strategic The Energy & Climate Strategy Centre to the Groups vision of industry leadership.
Mine of the Future programme, which is a was established in 2008 to lead the Groups set of interlinking projects aimed at delivering Deploy technology solutions that response to the challenges of climate change.
demonstrable step change improvements increase earnings.
The team engages with governments and in productivity, cost and environmental other stakeholders on the design of climate Design and build valuable new performance, and product quality in surface policy, develops internal strategies to reduce investment projects.
and underground mining operations and associated mineral recovery technologies.
energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions, Position the Group to unlock orebodies and identifi es low carbon pathways for the A breakthrough delivered through the that require innovative mining solutions.
Mine of the Future programme is the Lead the Groups response to climate change.
development and deployment of autonomous The Group recognises that climate policy blast hole drilling technologies in the Pilbara.
will require signifi cant business changes, Safety The programme had three autonomous but believes that concerted government T&I is committed to the safe operation of its drill rigs at the end of 2009 and remains an action in the near term will allow a transition facilities and to the safe deployment of its exciting test programme with the potential which minimises long term costs.
As a consequence of a single, low to deploy a world fi first autonomous drilling on the direction of climate policy will also severity medical treatment case, the T&I 2009 solution Rio Tinto wide.
Results indicate reduce risks associated with long term all injury frequency rate was 0.32 compared a signifi cant improvement in blast drill investment in new assets.
with 0.24 in 2008. accuracy plus associated hole quality, lower The year 2009 was an important one cost of consumables, and the ability to better for climate policy, with the Copenhagen 2009 operating performance utilise skilled operator resources by remotely Climate talks in December, and legislative supervising multiple autonomous drills.
Key achievements proposals in Australia, New Zealand, the US The Improving Performance Together IPT The surface Mine of the Future programme and Europe.
The Group continued actively asset management programme was key is currently focused on the operation of the to support the development of legislation to Rio Tinto Alcan cultural integration fi first signifi cantly autonomous iron ore mine, through direct engagement with governments 56 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information and involvement in advocacy groups such as global metrics to compare and monitor the Technical Risk Evaluation the US Climate Action Partnership.
performance of both heavy mobile equipment The Technical Risk Evaluation Centre ensures and fi xed plant equipment.
that Rio Tintos investment decisions are The Energy & Climate Strategy team also based on independent, thorough technical supported the business units in preparing for The IPT programme for Asset Management review and evaluation and provides advice future emissions trading systems.
The quality continued to deliver strong results in 2009, on the adequacy of risk identifi cation and of the Groups reporting was again recognised assisting the business units to realise over management at key points in the project by the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Rio Tinto US$200 million in pre-tax cash fl ow benefi ts.
The Centre also sets scored top in the FTSE 350 materials sector There was also a signifi cant effort to work standards for Risk Analysis and Management and second in the Global 500 materials sector.
jointly with Rio Tinto Alcan to deploy more generally across the Group.
In 2009 it the programme across sites in North The Energy & Climate Strategy team manages began implementation of a Group wide risk America, Europe and Australia resulting the Groups work on carbon capture and management and reporting system that will in additional pre-tax cash fl ow benefi ts storage CCS.
In late 2009 the Group decided ensure the Group understands, manages and of over US$50 million.
to focus the majority of its investment in reports its risk effectively.
carbon capture and storage CCS technology Mining Technology on the Hydrogen Energy California project, a Outlook The focus of the Mining Technology Centre proposed new hydrogen powered electricity In 2010 T&I will continue to maintain a is to establish leading practice and develop, facility that will capture and store most culture that places a high priority on safety share and implement Group wide solutions of its carbon related emissions to produce and safety improvements.
T&I will continue in the core mining production processes clean electricity.
This decision necessitated to work with Group businesses to deliver of surface mining, underground mining, a restructuring of the broader Hydrogen strategic resource development, resource and measurable increases in earnings and Energy joint venture with BP.
Rio Tinto sold reserve estimation, orebody knowledge and will continue to assist from a technology its 50 per cent interest in Hydrogen Energy mine planning.
IPT mining initiatives in 2009 viewpoint in the selection of the most International Ltd, which owns an interest in included payload management, drill and blast attractive investment opportunities.
T&I the Hydrogen Power Abu Dhabi project, to BP and off road tyre demand reduction.
The IPT will continue to focus on the safe and for an undisclosed sum.
programme for mining technology continued effi cient implementation of projects and to deliver strong results in 2009 and assisted will build systems to support management Mineral Technology Services business units in realising over US$150 of projects across the Group.
The pursuit of The Mineral Technology Services Centre million in pre-tax cash fl ow benefi ts in 2009. the Mine of the Future programme and comprises a central team of technology the development of innovative alliances and The Mining Technology Centre also includes professionals deployed from six regional relationships that will create competitive a Strategic Production Planning SPP team, offi ces in North America, Australia and advantage for the Group remain a signifi cant which focuses on developing and establishing the UK who partner with business units in focus in the coming year.
T&I will also focus leading practice.
A key element of the the delivery of large, measurable increases efforts on delivering improvements in the SPP process is cooperation with business in earnings and value.
This team provides Groups energy effi ciency, long term business units to develop comprehensive plans and technical service to business units in the decarbonisation options, compliance valuations of strategic development options.
areas of geology, mining, mineral processing, processes and performance, and carbon Results from SPP provide a logical resource geotechnics, hydrometallurgy, process control, markets participation.
development framework for more detailed asset management and the environment.
studies and investment decision making.
The The Centre is also responsible for the Centre also oversees the Groups resource and delivery of the IPT processing solution that reserves estimation and reporting process as focuses on identifying, understanding and well as the core technical systems.
reducing product losses that occur during Project Development mineral processing.
The sustainability of improvements is monitored through the use The Project Development Centre provides of shared, global performance measures for guidance, support and training for all aspects concentrators and other fi xed plants.
The of capital projects, from pre-feasibility IPT processing programme continued to through to execution and commissioning.
deliver strong results in 2009 and assisted It also performs a governance function by the operating units in realising over US$300 conducting project reviews and reporting million in pre-tax cash fl ow benefi ts.
The Centre manages feasibility studies and the execution Asset Management of capital projects on behalf of the business The Asset Management Centre focuses units.
At the end of 2009 it was responsible on the effective choice and deployment for the implementation of the Argyle of the Groups equipment for mining and Diamonds underground project, Kestrel processing.
During 2009, it focused on the mine extension, Clermont coal mine project, continued reliability and performance of Yarwun 2 project and the feasibility study for equipment across the Group, including the Energy Resources of Australia heap leach the implementation of asset management project.
During 2009, the Centre continued standards, standard business processes to make improvements in overall safety and work practices, technical systems and performance at these projects.
