0.61 0.97 1.25 0.88 0.55 Performance Exploration Adding value through discovery The Group has had a sustained commitment fl ows.
A fundamental element of the Groups further evaluation.
The Crowsnest coking to exploration since 1946 and considers business strategy is a clear focus on fi nding coal deposit in British Columbia, Canada, exploration to be one of its core competencies.
and mining only the largest, lowest cost, was identifi ed as a non core asset and has Mature Group operations, such as Weipa, the resources that are profi table at all parts of been prepared for divestment.
Options for Pilbara and Rssing, were Tier 1 greenfi eld the natural price cycle and that deliver a progressing the Altai Nuurs coking coal discoveries by RioTinto.
The value of these sustainable competitive advantage.
These deposit in Mongolia continue to be assessed.
discoveries is still being realised by both are described as Tier 1 resources.
In response to Group cost reduction targets for mine production and successful brownfi eld The Exploration group is organised 2009, activity at order of magnitude projects exploration after more than 40 years.
geographically into regional multi-commodity Tamarack in the US nickel-copper and Continuing this legacy, since 2000, the teams, with head offi ces in London, Salt Lake Amargosa in Brazil bauxite was curtailed.
Exploration group has identifi ed two of the City and Brisbane.
Greenfi eld exploration, These projects have now been reinvigorated largest copper opportunities in the world at which aims to establish completely new and are expected to be advanced to a decision Resolution in Arizona, US and La Granja in operating business units, involves geographic point in 2010.
Exploration has also delivered one of the or commodity diversifi cation away from In the brownfi eld environment, Exploration worlds largest known undeveloped high grade existing Group operations.
Brownfi eld handed over the Leisker iron ore deposit in iron ore deposits, at Simandou in Guinea, exploration is directed at sustaining or the Pilbara, Australia, to RioTinto Iron Ore.
In as well as the Caliwingina channel iron growing existing Group business units.
Utah, US, drilling within three kilometres of The Exploration group manages and is deposits in the Pilbara, Australia.
Exploration the Bingham Canyon copper mine identifi ed accountable for greenfi eld programmes and identifi ed the Sulawesi nickel laterite deposit a new  porphyry provides technical assistance to the business in Indonesia, the Mutamba titanium deposit system.
Delineation drilling is now under units on brownfi eld programmes.
in Mozambique and the potash deposits at way with numerous other geophysical targets Potasio Rio Colorado and Regina, in Argentina Greenfi eld exploration programmes are within the Bingham mine orbit to be tested and Canada respectively, which RioTinto sold prioritised on a global basis so that only the in 2010. to Vale in 2009.
In 2009, Exploration handed most attractive opportunities are pursued.
Gross cash expenditure on exploration and over to the Diamonds & Minerals product Investment decisions are driven not by evaluation in 2009 was US$514 million.
The group for further evaluation the Jadar lithium location or choice of commodity but rather decrease of US$620 million over 2008 gross borate deposit in Serbia.
by the quality of each opportunity.
expenditure refl ects steps taken across the A signifi cant proportion of the Exploration Group to reduce controllable costs.
Gross Safety groups expenditure is returned to RioTinto expenditures are offset by US$ 894 million The Exploration group all injury frequency through the sale of Tier 2 discoveries.
Over pre-tax proceeds from the divestment of rate has fallen from 0.97 at the end of 2008 the ten year period 2000 to 2009, divestment exploration properties, including US$818 to 0.61 at the end of 2009.
This improvement of Exploration group projects has returned million pre-tax US$797 million post-tax has in part come from a reduction in the US$1,209 million for a net pre tax spend from the divestment of undeveloped potash scope of fi eld activities, but also refl ects a of approximately US$78 million.
Over the assets in Argentina and Canada.
focus on reducing injuries through enhanced period this translates to an average Tier 1 contractor management.
discovery cost of less than US$10 million Outlook per deposit.
The Exploration group will explore for a The following table shows the Exploration All injury frequency rate range of commodities across at least 17 Per 200,000 hours worked groups Tier 1 discoveries since 2000: countries in 2010.
Continued improvement in commodity demand forecasts will Year Discovery Commodity Location underpin the reactivation of major drilling 2000 Potasio Rio Potash Argentina programmes on the Tamarack nickel-copper Colorado and Amargosa bauxite projects.
Focus will 2002 Resolution Copper US also be placed on reinvigorating the early 2004 Simandou Iron ore Guinea stage target generation and testing required 2005 La Granja Copper Peru for sustained exploration success.
2005 Caliwingina Iron ore Australia 2008 Sulawesi Nickel Indonesia Divestment of Tier 2 assets will continue 2008 Mutamba Titanium Mozambique where real value can be realised, with 2009 Jadar Lithium Serbia a target of 100 per cent of the annual Borates greenfi eld exploration budget being At the end of 2009, the Exploration group returned to the Group.
was actively exploring in 17 countries, and assessing opportunities in a further fi five, The next crop of potential discoveries: for a broad range of commodities including Project Commodity Country Stage bauxite, copper, coking coal, iron ore, 05 06 07 08 09 Order of diamonds, nickel and uranium.
Tamarack Nickel copper US magnitude Order of Strategy 2009 operating performance Amargosa Bauxite Brazil magnitude The purpose of Exploration is to add value The Tier 1 greenfi eld lithium borate deposit to the Group by discovering or acquiring at Jadar, Serbia, was transferred to the resources that can increase future cash Diamonds & Minerals product group for 54 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information Target generation and testing involves A successful Order of Magnitude Study Progress of a project the progression from concept to proof of results in the declaration of a discovery and The evolution of a project from target testing mineralisation at the prospect.
the transfer of project management from the to commissioning can take ten to 20 years Exploration group to the relevant RioTinto A Project of Merit is defi ned where product group.
Further work on these involving a series of study stages to reach mineralisation has been identifi ed through projects is broadly defi ned as Evaluation.
drilling to be of a grade and quantity Sustainable development decision making The two main Evaluation Study phases suffi cient to be potentially economic by criteria are applied throughout the project are Pre-feasibility and Feasibility Studies.
analogy with peer deposits currently development cycle.
Pre-feasibility involves an evaluation in production.
of project options, yielding a far clearer The early stages represent a progressive Projects which attract the interest of the relevant understanding of the preferred project increase in confi dence in the technical and RioTinto product group are progressed to concept and the key issues.
The Feasibility economic parameters used to determine Order of Magnitude Study.
This involves an Study sees the focus switch to optimisation whether the project meets RioTintos assessment of all possible options to establish and engineering of a single scenario investment criteria.
Early stages of project if there could be a viable project, and whether identifi ed through the Pre-feasibility evolution are broadly termed Exploration.
its potential value is suffi cient to justify Study.
This fi nally freezes and fully defi fines These stages of work are the responsibility committing signifi cant sums of money to a the scope in order to tie the project down of the Exploration group.
Any potential with a high degree of certainty as to the showstoppers are identifi ed during this stage.
specifi cations of what will be constructed.
Opportunities are tested and screened by several different stages of work Target Project of Order of Pre-feasibility Feasibility Commissioning generation merit magnitude Study Study and testing Exploration Evaluation www.
