Performance Energy Doug Ritchie, chief executive, Energy Strong production and sales The Energy group comprises thermal coal, coking coal and uranium operations.
Its coal interests are located in Australia and the US and supply the seaborne traded and Australian and US domestic markets.
These interests comprise: Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA which manages the groups interests in eight coal mines in Queensland and New South Wales: and the open cut mine Colowyo in Colorado, US and an interest in Cloud Peak Energy in Montana and Wyoming, US.
Rio Tinto Uranium produces uranium oxide from its majority owned mines in Australia and Namibia for electric power utilities worldwide.
For production and reserves charts see page 63.
Maximising free cash fl ow and Strategy 2009 Operational highlights continuing to operate in a responsible The Energy groups core purpose is and sustainable manner.
to maximise the value it creates for US$ million shareholders from supplying the worlds Timely delivery of current Revenue 6,709 mineable energy needs.
Operating cash fl ow 2,576 expansion projects.
Underlying earnings 1,420 The group focuses its resources on Continuing work with industry, government Capital expenditure 686 excellence in operations: large scale, and infrastructure providers to resolve Net operating assets 2,538 long life, cost competitive assets.
coal supply chain bottlenecks and increase export capacities.
Opportunities for brownfi eld expansions are being progressed across the business.
Operating cash flow contribution Positioning the group as the supplier of choice as the global economy recovers.
Achievements Retaining and continuing to develop Australian thermal and semi soft coal the best people.
production of 37.4 million tonnes Rio Tinto share 23.1 million tonnes Aligning business growth strategies with a fi five per cent increase on 2008.
19% climate change and energy strategy.
Record production and sales results Outlook throughout the year from many operations.
Rio Tinto believes the outlook for seaborne Safety performance improved at coal remains very positive.
The supply-demand balance for both Successful divestment of numerous thermal and metallurgical coals remains energy assets in line with the Group tight and towards the end of 2009 prices Underlying earnings contribution divestment strategy.
2007 2009 US$m were increasing across all types of coal.
0 Separation from Rio Tinto Energy America 498 2007 The rising domestic prices in China have RTEA and transition to a standalone Prices and exchange 1,623 supported the demand for imported coal, business in 2009 by Colowyo Coal Company.
51 Inflation while traditional importing markets 1,042 177 Volume A milestone achievement of 100 continue to increase imports in line 257 Costs indigenous employees at Energy Resources with a broader economic recovery.
Tax and other 77 of Australia ERA, representing almost 20 2,581 2008 per cent of ERAs workforce.
A global resurgence in nuclear power is 592 2,243 Price and exchange under way, driven in large part by the need 54 Inflation Continued delivery of operational for energy security and baseload electricity 67 Volume excellence programmes in all businesses 136 generation that minimises emissions of Costs to systematically eliminate waste, reduce 584 Tax and other greenhouse gases.
process variability, and engage and 1,420 2009 empower our workforce.
Uranium prices are likely to increase if many A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22. new uranium projects, which were looking All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net Key priorities interest and other centrally reported items.
less fi nancially attractive due to the effect of Continuing to improve HSE performance, weaker uranium prices, are delayed.
46 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information some sales occurred from volumes deferred ERAs Ranger mine achieved a total sales Performance from the fi first half.
Rssing has continued milestone of 100,000 tonnes of uranium The Energy groups 2009 sales revenue was on its growth path, producing 9.15 million oxide since commencing operations.
The US$6,709 million and its contribution to pounds in 2009, which was slightly higher Rssing mine is the only other mine in the underlying earnings was US$1,420 million, than the 2008 production 8.97 million world to reach this level of total sales.
a reduction of 45 per cent from 2008, due to pounds, which was a 20 year high.
lower realised Australian coal prices which ERA has begun preparing an Environmental were partially offset by an increase in US Impact Statement for a proposed heap leach Strategy thermal coal price.
facility at the Ranger mine, targeting the Rio Tinto believes the abundance, reliability extraction of 33 million to 44 million pounds Rio Tinto Coal Australias RTCA 2009 and affordability of coal will see it continue to of uranium oxide from low grade ores, and contribution to underlying earnings was be a major part of the global energy mix, and has started planning for an underground US$1,013 million, US$708 million lower than in a key source of energy for many developed exploration decline to further defi ne the 2008, attributable to lower prices and a changed and developing countries.
A key part of the Ranger 3 Deeps mineral resource.
sales mix partly compensated by a weaker Energy groups strategy is to ensure it is a Australian dollar and increased effi ciencies.
leading advocate of, and investor in, the During 2009 the group successfully RTCAs total coal production was 46.6 million sustainable future uses of coal.
In 2009 the sold a number of its energy assets in tonnes Rio Tinto share 30.6 million tonnes.
group continued to dedicate resources and line with Rio Tintos divestment strategy.
funds to the development of low emission Transactions included: Hard coking coal production was 9.2 million coal technology through investment in the tonnes, in line with 2008.
Higher production The sale of Rio Tinto Energy Americas carbon capture and storage technology on of other coal was achieved at Blair Athol RTEA Jacobs Ranch mine to Arch Coal the Hydrogen Energy California project, despite loss of volume in January and for a cash consideration of US$764 the COAL21 voluntary levy to support February due to severe fl ooding.
million, completed on 1 October 2009. low emission coal projects managed by In the Hunter Valley total production in The balance of RTEAs assets excluding Technology & Innovation in Australia, 2009 was slightly higher than 2008 levels.
Colowyo were transferred to Cloud Peak and in several low emission coal research Production of semi soft coal recovered Energy Resources LLC CPER.
Rio Tinto organisations in the US and Australia.
strongly in the second half of 2009 in received total proceeds of US$741 million A resurgence globally in nuclear power is response to fi rming global demand, and in connection with Cloud Peak Energy under way, driven in large part by the need was one per cent lower than the rate of Incs initial public offering and related for energy security and baseload electricity semi soft coking coal production in 2008. transactions.
As a result, Rio Tinto now generation that minimises emissions of Vessel queues in New South Wales NSW indirectly holds a 48.3 per cent interest greenhouse gases.
Rio Tinto aims to maintain were relatively stable in 2009, but began to in the Antelope, Cordero Rojo and Spring its position as one of the worlds leading Creek mines and a 24.1 per cent interest increase in the second half of the year.
uranium suppliers to power this growth.
In the US, earnings from all coal interests of A number of opportunities for brownfi eld The sale of Coal & Allieds Maules Creek US$257 million were US$110 million above expansions exist at the Coal & Allied project to Aston Resources, a private 2008, with improved prices and lower cash operations in the Hunter Valley and the Australian company, for A$480 million costs offsetting the impact of lower volumes Hail Creek mine in Queensland.
US$379 million was completed on in line with Rio Tintos reduced ownership.
A number of opportunities for further 18 February 2010.
Colowyo Coal Companys 2009 production low cost brownfi eld expansions are under totalled 3.2 million tonnes.
The reduction Coal & Allieds Vickery asset was sold consideration at ERAs Ranger mine and at was a result of the need to have adequate to Whitehaven Coal ASX listed for Rssing.
ERA owns the Jabiluka deposit: the reserves to satisfy the remaining long term A$31.5 US$26.5 million, with an second largest undeveloped uranium deposit sales contracts out to 2017 from its existing effective date of 4 February 2010. in the world, while adjacent to the Rssing reserve base.
lease, a signifi cant new discovery has been The contribution of Energy Resources made by Extract Resources Ltd in which Rio of Australia ERA in 2009 to underlying Tinto has a stake through its 14.7 per cent earnings was US$138 million, US$3 million interest in Extract Resources Ltd and below 2008.
Higher market prices and the 13.5 per cent interest in Kalahari Minerals plc.
expiration of older contracts containing price caps contributed to an average realised price Key achievements at ERA in 2009 of US$50.84 per pound, an Australian thermal and semi soft coal increase of 56 per cent compared to 2008.
In production was up fi five per cent on 2008.
2009 ERA also increased sales of 12.1 million Australian hard coking coal production in pounds compared to the 2008 volume of 2009 and full year uranium production was 11.6 million pounds.
comparable with the prior year.
Rssing Uranium earnings of US$24 million Signifi cant progress was made on the were US$77 million below 2008 attributable development of the Clermont coal mine, to lower realised prices, due to a decline which is on track to meet its fi first scheduled in the uranium price over the year, and production in 2010, while construction adverse exchange rate movements.
Earnings continued on an extension of the Kestrel recovered in the second half of the year when underground coal mine.
com 47 98.6 100.0 95.7 86.2 82.8 0.71 0.87 0.90 0.89 1.31 Performance Energy continued operation is conducting a coal seam methane half of the year.
The second half saw demand Safety trial to assess the potential to signifi cantly in developed nations begin to recover.
All injury frequency rate Chinas demand for imported coal in 2009 Per 200,000 hours worked Greenhouse gas emissions intensity remained was particularly strong and this supported fl at across the Australian coal businesses.
improved prices by year end, however prices were lower than the records achieved in 2008.
Global steel demand was also weak in the Australian coal greenhouse gas fi first half of 2009 for most markets other than China, but improved in the second half of the emissions intensity Indexed relative to 2008 year and has led to strong demand for coking and semi soft coking coal.
Hard coking coal production was comparable with 2008, despite a planned longwall changeover at the Kestrel mine in October 2009.
There was a fi five per cent increase in the production of other coal in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily attributable to an increase in port allocation in the fourth quarter of 2009.
The groups main coal development projects 05 06 07 08 09 in Australia are the extension of the Kestrel mine, and the construction of the new Safety performance and awareness Clermont mine to replace the nearby Blair continued to be a major focus for all Athol mine which will cease operations in operations.
Both projects have supply contracts frequency rate AIFR in 2009 improved, in place.
Due to the economic slowdown, and was 0.71 compared to 0.87 in 2008. work on the Kestrel mine extension was RTCA recorded a 11 per cent improvement slowed in 2009 however the project Review of operations on its AIFR compared with 2008: ERA remains on track to meet its fi first scheduled achieved a 39 per cent improvement: Rio Tinto Coal Australia production in 2012.
Clermont is due to and Rssing achieved a 20 per cent Rio Tinto: 100 per cent start production in mid 2010. improvement.
Colowyos AIFR increased Rio Tinto Coal Australia manages the groups in 2009 however it achieved a signifi cant In 2008, Coal & Allied completed an Australian coal interests.
These include, in reduction in injury severity rate.
engineering feasibility study on the Queensland: the Blair Athol Rio Tinto: 71 per Mount Pleasant coal mine project located cent, Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent, and Hail Greenhouse gas emissions Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per cent coal mines and adjacent to the Bengalla coal mine near The Energy group is continuing to the Clermont mine development Rio Tinto: Muswellbrook in the Hunter Valley.
As dedicate resources to the development 50.1 per cent.
certainty regarding infrastructure capacity of clean coal technology.
has grown signifi cantly, Coal & Allied is RTCA also provides management services initiating a revised pre-feasibility study to Coal & Allied Industries Coal & Allied On a life cycle basis, nuclear power generation to defi ne a development path with lower for operation of its four mines located in emits very low levels of greenhouse gases.
Coal & Allied Tinto is positioning its uranium business for Rio Tinto: 75.7 per cent is publicly listed the strong demand for uranium which will An investment programme by the owners on the Australian Securities Exchange and arise as the world moves to lower greenhouse and operators of the coal ports at Newcastle had a market capitalisation of A$6.9 billion gas emissions.
and Dalrymple Bay on the eastern seaboard US$6.2 billion at 31 December 2009. of Australia is expected to result in additional As part of the group planning process each Coal & Allied wholly owns Hunter Valley capacity from 2010. business unit submits a greenhouse gas Operations, has an 80 per cent interest in Mount Thorley Operations, a 55.6 per cent GHG performance review.
This includes a Coal & Allied has entered into long term interest in the contiguous Warkworth mine, discussion on targets and performance and take or pay contracts for port allocation and a 40 per cent interest in the Bengalla a list of proposed and implemented projects with Port Waratah Coal Services which mine which abuts its wholly owned Mount noting project progress, savings, costs and take effect from 1 January 2010.
It follows Pleasant development project.
Coal & Allied NPV net present value.
All businesses have the signing of new port access agreements also has a 36.5 per cent interest in Port a number of NPV positive optimisations and between the state government, Port Waratah Waratah Coal Services which operates the energy reduction projects being researched Coal Services and Newcastle Infrastructure Kooragang Coal Terminal and Carrington or implemented.
For example, Colowyo Group which provide for long term contracts Coal Terminal in Newcastle.
Coal began design and implementation of to underpin future expansion.
Similar haul road optimisation work with a targeted The global economic crisis impacted long term take or pay contracts to secure reduction in GHG of two per cent, while traditional markets for thermal coal, reducing equivalent rail track access and rail freight Coal & Allieds Mount Thorley Warkworth demand within the Asian region in the fi first are still being negotiated.
48 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information The company also began detailed planning The Energy group continues to respond to the Colowyo Coal Company for a proposed underground exploration economic downturn by focusing management Rio Tinto: 100 per cent decline, to conduct close spaced exploration attention on cash conservation.
Non essential Colowyo Coal Company produces thermal coal drilling to further defi ne the extent of the capital expenditures have been deferred in north west Colorado.
The company intends Ranger 3 Deeps mineral resource identifi ed wherever possible, and a range of initiatives to fulfi l long term contracts with two power in late 2008. are in place which focus on working capital generators located in north west Colorado until reductions, operating cost effi ciencies, 2017, with the intention to cease production Rssing Uranium Rio Tinto: 68.6 per cent procurement effi ciencies, and some head in 2018.
Rssing Uranium produces and exports count reductions.
uranium oxide from Namibia to power Energy Resources of Australia Demand for thermal and coking coal in utilities globally.
Its core purpose is to Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent both domestic US and seaborne traded coal maximise the value delivered to shareholders Energy Resources of Australia ERA is a markets, and globally for uranium remains by being a safe, signifi cant and growing publicly listed company and had a market robust.
Prices for seaborne traded coals, long term supplier of uranium.
capitalisation of A$4.6 billion US$4.1 billion both thermal and coking, are expected to be at 31 December 2009.
Rssing continues to play a major role in higher for 2010 than for 2009.
Outlook for the Namibian economy, both in terms of the uranium market remains positive, with Since 1980 ERA has mined ore and GDP contribution of around 3.8 per cent uranium prices in the longer term expected produced uranium oxide at its Ranger open as well as employment, education and to remain well above the levels seen for most pit mine, 250 kilometres east of Darwin in training opportunities.
Through the various of the last two decades.
ERA also has education and training programmes of the title to the adjacent Jabiluka mineral lease, Rssing Foundation, the company is which in 2003 was put on long term care recognised as a major contributor to and maintenance.
Ranger and Jabiluka are national human capital development.
surrounded by, but remain separate from, the World Heritage listed Kakadu National In August 2009 the Rssing board of directors Park.
ERAs operations are subject to approved the latest Life of Mine operating stringent environmental requirements, plan, which extends the mine life to 2023. and governmental oversight.
A technical improvement project was The Ranger mine is the second largest initiated during 2009 to secure improvements uranium mine in the world and ERA is in resource estimation, grade control and the fourth largest producer.
In parallel, the ERAs capital expansion projects to construction of a heap leach pilot plant is radiometrically sort low grade ores and close to completion, with commissioning process laterite ore were commissioned planned for 2010.
The heap leach project during 2008 and 2009 respectively.
The will remain a key focus as a way of reducing laterite processing plant will contribute operating costs.
Associated projects to support approximately 0.88 million pounds per this include a new tailings facility and a new annum of uranium oxide to production acid plant.
The radiometric Deep drilling commenced in 2009 to sorter will upgrade lower grade ore and investigate the extent of ore below the current allow an additional 2.4 million pounds of pit and to fi rm up geological geotechnical uranium oxide to be produced over a fi five knowledge that will improve the mine plan year period from 2008. and design.
ERA continued to work with the Mirarr, traditional owners of the land on which In response to the fi financial crisis the the mining lease is located.
The Mirarr company implemented numerous effi ciency continued delivery of a cultural awareness improvements and signifi cantly reduced programme to all new ERA employees capital expenditure and reduced costs on a and participated in environmental and number of key major consumables, whilst cultural heritage management programmes.
continuing with key projects which will Increasing indigenous employment is a provide for future growth.
signifi cant focus including the provision of training and employment opportunities.
Outlook Energy markets have been adversely affected ERA continued studies into a proposed heap by the global economic downturn, however leach facility at Ranger, targeting the recovery of 33 million to 44 million pounds of uranium this has been muted compared to other oxide from low grade ores.
ERA commenced commodity sectors due to electric power the formal environmental approval processes demand being relatively inelastic.
This is for the proposed facility with the Australian especially true for low cost, base load power and Northern Territory governments and stations such as those fi red by uranium or intends to lodge an Environmental Impact low cost thermal coal.
