Performance Iron Ore Sam Walsh, chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia Record performance, strong outlook Rio Tinto's Iron Ore group is the second largest producer supplying the global seaborne iron ore trade, having expanded its capacity over the past decade in tandem with the rise of China as the world's largest and fastest growing single market.
The group is the largest single contributor to Rio Tinto's earnings, and remains ideally placed to take advantage of the continued recovery and growth of the world's leading economies.
For production and reserves see page 63.
Building on 2009's success in removing Strategy 2009 Operational highlights bottlenecks to achieve sustained The strategy is to maximise the return to production at or above nameplate capacity.
shareholders from iron ore assets worldwide.
US$ million Fully extracting benefi ts from operations Revenue 12,598 Focus will remain on reducing costs and integration though advances such as the Operating cash fl ow 7,389 building on cash generation initiatives.
Underlying earnings 4,126 Operations Centre and improved planning Capital expenditure 2,148 Increasing or maintaining return from and scheduling.
Net operating assets 11,263 existing assets through brownfi eld Continuing to i mprov e the business' developments where possible, particularly safety performance, notwithstanding to contribute to sustaining capacity.
the escalation of business activity and Operating cash flow contribution Advancement of expansions under study expansion work.
to achieve 330 million tonnes per annum Securing approval for and implementing capacity in the Pilbara by 2015, within the proposed production joint venture in ongoing capital expenditure constraints.
the Pilbara with BHP Billiton.
Continue detailed planning on integration Advancing the Orissa, India, and Simandou, for implementation of the proposed 53% Guinea, development projects.
Pilbara production joint venture with BHP Billiton, as various regulatory Outlook approvals are sought.
The outlook for global iron ore remains very positive, with seaborne iron ore trade Achievements continuing to expand to meet major Global iron ore production of more than Asian demand.
217 million tonnes Rio Tinto share Underlying earnings contribution 171.5 million tonnes, a 12 per cent Growth fundamentals remain unchanged 2007 2009 US$m increase on 2008. from before the fi financial crisis, and continue 0 to be dominated by the rise of China, where 2,664 2007 Maintained integrity of operations despite 3,654 Prices and exchange urbanisation continues apace.
weather and global fi financial crisis setbacks.
71 Inflation China's increase in steel intensity is 165 Volume Milestone of three billion tonnes exported 446 Costs following or exceeding market expectations, from Rio Tinto's operations in the Pilbara.
51 Tax and other and Rio Tinto expects steel consumption to 6,017 2008 Yandicoogina became the fi first mine in double by 2020.
India is expected to follow 2,920 Price and exchange Australia to record 50 million tonnes annual that same path, though at a less rapid pace.
694 Volume Growth in the more stable markets of Japan, 352 Costs Operations Centre established for Korea, Taiwan, Western Europe and North 5 Tax and other remote control of mines, rail and ports.
America should remain relatively constant.
4,126 2009 A reconciliation of the net earnings with underlying earnings for Key priorities 2008 and 2009 as determined under EU IFRS is set out on page 22.
All amounts presented by the product groups exclude net Achieving a proper, expeditious and fair interest and other centrally reported items.
resolution of the case of the four Shanghai colleagues detained by China in July 2009.
50 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information 0.81 0.91 0.98 1.27 1.58 An ongoing priority will be the early Rio Tinto continued its longstanding support for Performance identifi cation and adoption of technologies community organisations as well as launching Rio Tinto's global iron ore business achieved that improve performance and deliver value new partnerships with the Kings Park Botanical a record performance in 2009, despite the from operations, as was the case with the Gardens and the Royal Flying Doctor Service, severe and sudden impact of the global the latter to provide the fi first aeromedical jet to Operations Centre in 2009.
Early returns fi financial crisis and signifi cant weather related service remote Western Australia.
from the Autonomous Haulage System trial interruptions in the Pilbara early in the year.
with Komatsu of driverless trucks and the Across operations, rapid measures were Safety autonomous drill and blast projects at West taken to reduce expenditure in the face of There was a signifi cant improvement in Angelas mine show great promise.
Rio Tinto the downturn in markets, putting in place remains committed to establishing its Mine of safety performance for the Iron Ore group in cash preservation effi ciencies and managing the Future vision in the Pilbara and elsewhere.
2009, with the all injury frequency rate AIFR operations so as to enable a quick ramp dropping to 0.8 1, an 1 1 per cent improvement up as markets recovered.
Pilbara iron ore Planning for the implementation of an on 2008.
The AIFR achieved was better than production managed to run in excess of integrated production joint venture with BHP the year's target of 0.86, and compares with nameplate capacity throughout the second Billiton remains the most important strategic the 0.91 AIFR achieved in 2008. half of the year, despit e the disruptions.
Iron Ore's contribution to 2009 underlying Key achievements earnings was US$4,126 million, US$1,891 All injury frequency rate Besides the binding agreement to form a Per 200,000 hours worked million lower than in 2008, mainly due to lower benchmark and spot prices, partly offset production joint venture with BHP Billiton by higher volumes from the recently completed which required a massive commitment of expansions and lower unit cash costs.
organisational resources the key achievement of 2009 was maximising effi ciency through a Sales volumes from the Pilbara region of year of unprecedented change.
Western Australia set a new record in 2009 at 204 million tonnes 100 per cent basis, an Not only were new production and sales increase of 19 per cent on 2008.
Shipments to records set notably global iron ore production all major markets, including the largest single in excess of 217 million tonnes Rio Tinto share market, China, were maintained at a high 171.5 million tonnes, a 12 per cent increase on level throughout 2009.
In the fi first half of the 2008 but they were achieved despite a very year approximately half of Rio Tinto's iron ore challenging fi first half.
Major fl ooding through production was sold on a spot market basis.
the west Pilbara cut off most mines from ports, In the second half, sales were primarily priced necessitating a signifi cant reconstruction effort.
on a benchmark or its equivalent basis.
Operations were able to make up the shortfall allowing in bound ore supply to meet all In September 2009, Rio Tinto completed contractual obligations.
the sale of the Corumb operation and the associated river logistics operations in 05 06 07 08 09 The fi first stage of the Operations Centre in Paraguay for US$750 million.
The profi t Perth was successfully completed, enabling on disposal from this divestment has been the management of all mine, port and rail excluded from underlying earnings.
A Chief Executive's Safety Award was presented assets from a single location for the fi first time.
to the Expansion Projects division for achieving The Iron Ore Company of Canada Rio Tinto The fi nalisation of the sale of the Corumb an outstanding all injury frequency rate AIFR 58.7 per cent completed a fi five week Summer iron ore mine to Vale was also a signifi cant of 0.57 and implementing a number of safety shutdown and all pellet lines have resumed achievement.
The group completed negotiations initiatives.
One of these was reporting and production.
The HIsmelt plant in Kwinana, for a mine gate sales agreement with Pilbara recording signifi cant potential incidents SPIs, south of Perth, remained on care and junior company Iron Ore Holdings IOH for up a programme started at Iron Ore operating maintenance throughout 2009. to 1.5 million tonnes a year from its Phil's Creek divisions in 2009. project to be fed into production.
The agreement Strategy also included a six months' exclusive right to Expansion Projects achieved the outstanding The 2010 strategy is linked to the pace of examine IOH's Iron Valley asset strategically rate of three SPIs reported per 100 site recovery in world iron ore markets.
The business placed near the Yandicoogina mine.
employees, and started the Fatality Prevention will aim to achieve superior returns and cash Programme to identify, eliminate or control Efforts were intensifi ed to maximise the fl ow, focusing on continuous improvement to potentially fatal events.
Management worked participation of Traditional Owners and build on the previous year's record performance.
with construction contractors to provide a other indigenous Australians in the Pilbara As China continues to comprise more than strong focus on safety leadership, including operations.
Already among the largest private 90 per cent of the global iron ore trade, Rio safety forums and inductions with a focus on sector employers of Aboriginals, a historic Tinto will seek to protect and enhance its group interaction and learning.
decision late in 2009 saw Rio Tinto award a market share in this and other key markets, A$200 million contract for the Western Turner The Safety Leadership Development Programme seeking an improvement in relationships with Syncline project to a joint venture involving was implemented across iron ore sites in China.
Expansion options will be identifi ed to the Eastern Guruma people.
optimise the development sequence of mines, for example using brownfi eld developments to increase or maintain return from existing assets.
com 51 87.3 100.0 81.4 76.1 77.6 Performance Iron Ore continued forced the business to re-cast its options and approval is being sought as the 50:50 joint Greenhouse gas emissions priorities for the year ahead.
venture partners Rio Tinto and Hancock The Iron Ore group's total greenhouse gas Prospecting consider development options.
GHG emissions intensity improved to 9.1 Rio Tinto's Iron Ore business rapidly k ilograms of carbon dioxide equivalent per implemented a series of measures designed to In late 2009 Rio Tinto relaunched its expansion tonne of iron ore in 2009, from 10.5 in the curtail operating costs and capital expenditure, plans, covering two incremental fi five million previous year.
as its customers' liquidity challenges and its tonne expansions in Dampier port capacity, own corporate priorities demanded.
and outlining a two step process to arrive at an overall Pilbara annual capacity of 330 Iron ore greenhouse gas Most expansion work was suspended, and million tonnes by 2015.
The key components emissions intensity a number of assets were put on temporary Indexed relative to 2008 include a second wharf at Cape Lambert, six shutdown or prolonged care and maintenance new mine developments or expansions and a to preserve cash and protect shareholder value.
major increase in supporting infrastructure and The proposed strategic relationship with workforce developments.
Chinalco, announced in February, involved At Iron Ore Company of Canada the sale of a signifi cant commitment of management pellets was lower than the previous year, resources, as did from June the agreement for refl ecting the summer shutdown and the an operational joint venture with BHP Billiton.
slower recovery of traditional markets.
An early priority of the realignment of the Improved production later in the year followed business was the focus on preserving operations the resumption of pellet lines and the benefi t in good shape for market recovery, and therefore of additional heavy mobile equipment.
a number of maintenance projects were brought The Orissa joint venture project Rio Tinto forward to capitalise on the downturn.
For share 51 per cent in India is close to example, a new ship loader was installed at the fi nalisation, providing a potentially valuable East Intercourse Island terminal at Dampier, foothold in an under explored world class several months ahead of schedule.
province, with great capacity to service India's 05 06 07 08 09 The focus on maximising the return from growing domestic market.
existing assets continued through the The Simandou project Rio Tinto share 95 per year, with the ramping up of Hope Downs Progress continued on the replacement of cent in the west African nation of Guinea, mine Rio Tinto share 50 per cent the most ageing power infrastructure in the Pilbara, a potential development of world class signifi cant single development, feeding 20.6 with a new generation plant ready for signifi cance and one which would confi rm million tonnes into overall production.
Implementation its status as a Pilbara class iron ore province, of the cleaner technology will result in 25 The rapid repair of the rail track that was remains a work in progress.
A number of issues per cent less GHG at the same production fl ood damaged in February allowed the related to security of tenure remain to be level compared with the existing steam Mesa J mine at Pannawonica to produce 25.2 resolved with the new Government of Guinea.
Four gas turbines will be million tonnes in 2009, a marginal increase progressively commissioned in 2010 with the Discussions continue following the on the previous year.
option to retro fi t combined cycle equipment negotiation of a binding agreement with BHP Expansion work continued on two new mines to further reduce GHG emissions.
Billiton in December 2009 for a production in the Pilbara Mesa A in the Robe Valley Rio joint venture.
A series of regulatory approvals Another technological improvement occurred Tinto share 53 per cent and Brockman 4 near and related processes is under way.
The with the integration of 51 Evolution Series Tom Price Rio Tinto share 100 per cent.
Both joint venture, to be chaired by Iron Ore chief locomotives into the Pilbara railway fl fleet.
mines are expected to be producing ore by executive Sam Walsh, is a critical project for The new generation General Electric diesel mid 2010. both partners, aiming to unlock more than electric locomotives replace the less effi cient US$10 billion in synergies and realise the full Work continued on the US$500 million Dash 7 and 8 locomotives.
potential of their iron ore assets in the Pilbara.
power station at Dampier and work started on adding incremental tonnage at Dampier port.
A number of localised innovative projects The joint venture encompasses the iron ore to reduce GHG emissions continued across resources, capabilities and infrastructure of both Hearings before the Australian Competition the group.
At the Tom Price mine, locally companies, but marketing arrangements will Tribunal on the issue of third party rail access produced biodiesel has been secured to remain completely separate and competitive.
to Rio Tinto's rail operations in the Pilbara provide fuel for drilling blasts in 2010.
Energy continued through the latter part of 2009, effi cient devices continue to be introduced Minerals with a decision expected in 2010. to housing and buildings on sites and in Dampier Salt Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent In September state authorities upheld the towns.
Research into electricity generation, validity of Rio Tinto's tenure of the Rhodes In 2008 Iron Ore took responsibility for hybrid engines and alternative fuels continue Ridge joint venture Rio Tinto share 50 per Dampier Salt DSL.
DSL achieved record through the Mine of the Future programme.
cent, confi rming its claim of occupancy underlying earnings of US$8 8 million in rights on a key project for future development 2009, up from US$40 million in 2008. Review of operations of the Pilbara.
From November 2008 through to February Salt production for DSL was 8.6 million 2009, the sudden impact of the global Studies were completed on the Hope Downs 4 tonnes 100 per cent, marginally down on fi financial crisis on world iron ore demand project in the east Pilbara, and environmental nine million tonnes in 2008.
The downturn 52 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Performance and reserves Governance statements information was mainly attributable to the softening During 2009 Rio Tinto Marine took in Asian markets in response to the global possession of two new bulk carriers, RTM fi financial crisis.
Twarra and RTM Gladstone, being the fi final two vessels in a series of fi five.
These vessels The Dampier site achieved record shipments will be used principally for the transportation of four million tonnes despite a fi first quarter of bauxite from Rio Tinto Alcan's mine at impacted by bad weather.
The site also Weipa, Queensland.
The purpose built ships established a new nameplate capacity of deliver volume and effi ciency advantages on 4.4 million tonnes per annum resulting niche trade routes, guaranteeing supply and from various process improvements.
At the eliminating freight cost variability.
end of the year the 100 millionth tonne of salt was shipped from Dampier since salt Outlook production began there in 1972.
Rio Tinto remains positive about the outlook for iron ore in 2010 as markets continue their A new 3,500 tonnes per hour shiploader recovery in the medium and longer term.
It and feed conveyor system was installed at is important to retain some caution, as the Port Hedland to replace the original port recovery is strong but not without fragility.
The salt transport function In particular, the sustaining benefi t of the in the harvest process at Port Hedland was various government stimulus packages successfully brought in house from a contractor, remains to be seen.
improving the business risk profi le.
Despite this, the outlook remains far better In April Lake MacLeod celebrated 40 years of than it appeared this time a year ago.
Not only salt and gypsum production.
has China weathered the fi financial crisis better than other major markets, its greater steel Marine consumption as a result of demographic shifts In early 2009, the Iron Ore business assumed towards urbanisation has resulted in continued responsibility for Rio Tinto Marine operations strong underlying demand for iron ore. Group ship ownership and contracting.
While the near future will see steel The centralised Marine group consists of consumption stimulated by fi financial approximately 75 shipping professionals, measures focused on infrastructure located principally in Melbourne, Singapore, development and exports, longer term London and Montreal, supporting Rio Tinto growth is expected to continue to be driven business es globally in assisting with vessel by urbanisation in coastal provinces, later selection, operational safety, scheduling, port spreading inland to the rural economy.
effi ciency and cost management.
During This strong demand has left China 2009, Rio Tinto Marine managed 168 million increasingly reliant on lower cost iron ore tonnes of seaborne volume consisting of iron imports, emphasising the importance of ore, coal, salt, bauxite, alumina and other dry Rio Tinto's position in the lowest quartile cargo, a 68 per cent increase on 2008 volume.
of cost per tonne for iron ore production.
Rio Tinto Marine leverages the Group's There has been a resurgence in the iron ore substantial cargo base to obtain a low cost spot price, however Rio Tinto has emphasised mix of short, medium and long term freight its willingness to align with customers' supply cover.
It seeks to create value by improving requirements.
While Rio Tinto has long the competitive position of the Group's been an advocate for a robust benchmark products through freight optimisation.
pricing system one able to accommodate the Rio Tinto's product diversity and global realities of the demand-supply balance while coverage affords Rio Tinto Marine the ability helping support future expansions of capacity to combine internal and complementary it does not limit itself to one preferred external trade fl ows to increase vessel avenue of delivery.
The outlook for pellets is improving as the The group's HSE and vessel assurance steel industry capacity utilisation has started standards for freight are set and maintained rising at IOC's traditional North American by Rio Tinto Marine, one of three equal and European markets.
shareholders in RightShip, a ship vetting specialist, promoting safety and effi ciency in the global maritime industry.
Rio Tinto Marine will continue safety improvement efforts to instil a high standard of safety performance aboard vessels under management and throughout the organisation.
