Overview Proposed iron ore production joint venture with BHP Billiton joint venture is a contractual arrangement How it will work and the parties will not be acquiring shares The establishment and operation of the joint venture are governed by a Framework in each others iron ore companies or legal or Agreement signed in June 2009 and binding agreements signed in December 2009. benefi cial interests in each others iron ore assets.
The parties will obtain an economic The establishment of the joint venture is conditional on regulatory and shareholder approvals.
exposure to each others iron ore production A new company, owned 50:50 by Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, will be established as joint assets through each of them subscribing for venture manager.
debentures in an interposed company in the others group that holds shares in the others The joint venture manager, with its own management team, will manage the joint asset holding subsidiaries.
venture as a standalone, production-only operation.
To equalise the net value of the parties The managers mandate will be to achieve synergies, minimise costs, maximise asset contributions to the joint venture, BHP production and present options for expansion.
Billiton will also subscribe US$5.8 billion in cash for additional debentures in the Rio Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton will each access a half share of the joint ventures production Tinto interposed company.
This amount will subject to some adjustments to recognise existing commitments to third parties.
be infl ated from 1 July 2009 to completion Each party will independently market its share of production.
at a rate of 6.5 per cent per annum, and will also be adjusted to refl ect equalisation of net cash fl ows from 1 July 2009 in the manner Scope of joint venture Iron Ore Joint Venture Framework described below.
Agreement The joint venture will encompass the The parties have agreed that they will bear management and operation of the economic On 5 June 2009, Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton the economic benefi t and burden of the afterinterests of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton in signed a Framework Agreement to establish tax cash fl ows of their respective assets in the all current and future iron ore operations an iron ore production joint venture period from 1 July 2009 to commencement in Western Australia, including exploration combining the operation and management of of the joint venture.
To achieve this, the BHP interests, leases, mines, rail lines, ports and their respective Western Australian iron ore Billiton cash subscription payment described associated infrastructure, and all related production assets.
above will be adjusted for 50 per cent of the employees and contractors.
However, the difference between the net cash fl ows after The Framework Agreement contains joint venture will not include BHP Billitons tax from the Rio Tinto operations and the exclusivity provisions preventing either party Hot Briquetted Iron plant HBI or Rio Tintos BHP Billiton operations during the period from soliciting or engaging in discussions with interest in HIsmelt, and its application to from 1 July 2009 until completion, infl ated at respect to a proposal that in broad terms other secondary processing activities will be a rate of 6.5 per cent per annum.
enables a person to acquire an economic or limited.
Marketing activities and business security interest in assets within the scope of development outside Western Australia are Governance of the joint venture the joint venture: which may adversely impact also outside the scope of the joint venture.
Management of the joint venture will be on its benefi ts: which is likely to be inconsistent The parties to the joint venture will share the overseen by a non executive Owners Council with completion of the joint venture: or which economic burden of all related liabilities, other comprised of four representatives of each party.
might require a restructuring of it.
than material undisclosed liabilities with All decisions of the Owners Council must be The Framework Agreement provides for a a minimum claim of US$300 million and a approved by both parties, subject to certain mutual break fee of US$275.5 million payable maximum claim period of ten years and certain deadlock breaking mechanisms.
in the event that either party: announces pre-July 2009 tax liabilities.
It is intended that The initial chairman of the Owners Council the joint venture will continue in perpetuity.
that it does not intend to proceed with the will be Sam Walsh Rio Tinto executive joint venture: after satisfaction of the key director and chief executive, Iron Ore, who Conditions precedent regulatory approvals, fails to recommend the will hold that offi ce for a period of four joint venture to its shareholders or fails to take The binding agreements remain subject years.
The Owners Council will have the the steps necessary to obtain the approval of to satisfaction of certain conditions power to approve high level policies such as its shareholders: or breaches the exclusivity precedent, including satisfying relevant accounting, business conduct, communities provisions.
It also set out core principles anti-trust requirements, obtaining Australian and health, safety and environment relating that would apply to the establishment foreign investment clearance from the to the joint venture, review the conduct of of the joint venture.
Commonwealth Treasurer and favourable activities undertaken by the manager and rulings from the Australian Taxation Offi ce give general direction to the manager.
Description of binding agreements and State revenue authorities, obtaining certain other government approvals, and The Owners Council will also have On 5 December 2009, Rio Tinto and BHP obtaining the approval of BHP Billiton and powers and functions, much like a board Billiton signed binding agreements that set out Rio Tinto shareholders.
The Framework of directors, in relation to other matters, the terms that will regulate the establishment Agreement and the binding agreements will including: approval of business and synergy of the joint venture and its ongoing operation.
terminate if the conditions precedent are not plans: approving major contracts and Those terms are consistent with the core satisfi ed by 31 December 2010. capital projects: reviewing performance principles set out in the Framework Agreement, of the joint venture: approving major except that the joint marketing of 15 per cent Financial adjustments asset acquisitions, disposals and closures: of output contemplated by the core principles The economic interests of Rio Tinto and BHP approving strategies for dealing with will not take place: all output will be sold by Rio Billiton in the joint venture will be equal.
The third party access requests: approving Tinto and BHP Billiton separately.
20 Rio Tinto 2009 Annual report Production Financial Shareholder Overview Performance and reserves Governance statements information product types, volumes and specifi cations: Disagreements in relation to preferred approving entry into, or amendment of State expansion pathways where more than one Agreements: and approving the appointment option exists will be resolved by the manager and remuneration of senior executive determining which expansion pathway has team members.
Standing and ad hoc the highest net present value.
committees comprised of an equal number of Proposals for new iron ore acquisitions representatives of Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton or investments in Western Australia will will be established to advise the Owners be referred to the Owners Council and, if Council in relation to the exercise of some of both parties agree, be undertaken within its powers and functions.
Absent this agreement, the opportunity may be undertaken by the Management proposing party as a sole risk project.
The joint venture manager, a new entity owned equally by Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton, will Marketing of product and adjustments manage all day to day activities of the joint and tonnage supply venture without interference from Rio Tinto Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton will continue to and BHP Billiton.
In addition, the manager will compete and market iron ore to their customers develop plans for realisation of synergies and separately.
A separation protocol will ensure will present the Owners Council with annual that the manager has no knowledge of Rio business plans and budgets designed to achieve Tinto and BHP Billitons marketing strategies full utilisation of system capacity and options or sale terms relating to production from the for maximisation of production capacity joint venture.
The manager will supply equal through expansion.
The manager must ensure product volumes and specifi cations of product joint venture operations are conducted safely at to each party to the extent possible.
Where all times, act equitably and fairly to the parties, equal supply is not possible, adjustments will and act in accordance with business plans and be made to ensure that each party receives budgets approved by the Owners Council.
These adjustments may include Senior management of the manager will differential distributions on the debentures.
be selected jointly, with broadly equal participation from Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton.
Disposal of interests The initial chief executive offi cer of the joint The parties will both be free to sell some or all venture will be BHP Billiton Iron Ore President of their respective interests in the joint venture Ian Ashby, who will hold that offi ce for a period without any pre-emptive rights or change of four years.
Future chief executive offi cers will of control restrictions applying although be appointed by the Owners Council.
certain principles and restrictions will apply depending on the nature and extent of the Funding and default disposal.
The right to vote on the Owners The joint venture will operate with a Council can, however, only be exercised by a minimum cash balance and will be fi nanced person with an economic interest of more than entirely by the parties, through money 25 per cent of the joint venture, except in the subscribed for debentures and money unlikely scenario where neither party holds an advanced by loan to the relevant iron ore economic interest above 25 per cent.
The party will be entitled to sell the underlying manager of the joint venture will call for cash assets or interests separately from the joint from Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton on a regular venture interest, and rights to create security basis to fund the joint venture and capital interests over the underlying assets and expenditure programmes.
The parties may interests are limited.
elect to fund their proportionate share of an expansion or acquisition by way of project fi nancing and may use their interests in the joint venture to secure corporate debt.
Failure to advance funds to meet calls made by the manager will give rise to a suspension of the defaulting partys Owners Council voting rights and may trigger dilution of the defaulting partys interest in the joint venture or a right to buy out the defaulting party.
Expansions and acquisitions Sole risk rights will exist for expansion projects which involve capital expenditure exceeding US$250 million indexed.
