Robert Wiseman Dairies 26 Business Review: Board of Directors Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 An experienced Board 6 5 4 1: Alan Wiseman 58 5: Martyn Mulcahy 52 Group Operations Director Chairman Martyn joined the business in December 1994 Alan has been with the business for his entire and has been involved in the dairy industry for working life.
Under his leadership Wiseman has most of his working life.
Martyn has been a director undertaken a major programme of acquisitions of the operating company, Robert Wiseman & Sons and organic growth.
He has overall responsibility Limited, since October 1995 and is responsible for the strategic development of the Group.
for the Groups operational activities including 2: Robert Wiseman 54 all environmental, production and distribution Chief Executive related matters.
Robert joined the business in 1975.
He worked closely with Alan in the expansion of the business, 6: Norman L Murray BA CA FRSA 61 becoming Managing Director in 1985 and was Non-executive Director appointed Chief Executive on 16 May 2005.
Norman joined the Company in September He has responsibility for all operational matters 2003 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He was awarded Ernst & Young He is currently Chairman of Cairn Energy plc Entrepreneur of the Year 2003. and a Non-executive Director of Greene King plc and Penta Capital Partners Holdings Ltd.
He is 3: William Keane 53 a past President of the Institute of Chartered Group Finance Director Accountants of Scotland.
William is an Associate Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and joined 7: Andrew Dare CBE 67 Wiseman on 1 January 1994.
He has received a Non-executive Director Special Achievement Award in the Scottish Finance Andrew joined the Company in October 2000 Director of the Year competition and was Chairman and was previously Chief Executive of Milk of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors in 2001.
He holds several other private company directorships.
4: David Dobbins 50 Group Commercial Director 8: Ernest Finch BSC 62 David joined the business in May 1982 and has been Non-executive Director involved in the milk industry for his entire working Ernie joined the Company in September 1999 life.
He has been a director of the operating company, and was previously group executive of retail Robert Wiseman & Sons Limited, since March 1989 operations and systems with Marks and Spencer and is responsible for the Groups commercial activities plc.
He holds posts as a commercial adviser in including employee matters, sales & marketing, both public and private sectors.
commodity trading bulk cream, health and safety 9: Beverley Hodson OBE 57 and customer services.
Non-executive Director Beverley joined the Company in September 2005 and is a Non-executive director of First Milk and Legal & General Group PLC.
She was formerly Chief Executive of UK Retail, WH Smith Group Plc, Chief Executive of Childrens World, which was part of Boots Company Plc, and Chief Executive of Dolcis, Bertie Shoes and Cable & Co. which were part of Sears Plc.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Board of Directors 27 7 9 3 2 8 1
