27.9% Market Share 2008 09 Robert Wiseman Dairies 4 Business Review: Industry Overview Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 What is happening in the dairy industry and what does it mean for Wisemans?
Developed with input from Robert Wiseman Dairies by Maggie Urry However, Robert Wiseman Dairies has successfully UK milk demand It has been a turbulent year in the UK pursued a strategy that has largely mitigated the Retail demand for fresh milk has continued to grow adverse factors while continuing to build strong with volumes rising 0.7% to 4.52bn litres in the dairy industry.
The sector has been foundations for the future.
The Companys new 52 weeks to 22 03 09, according to the latest TNS buffeted by a number of external dairy at Bridgwater, Somerset, not only adds wellWorldpanel data.
Expenditure on liquid milk rose placed and efficient capacity but will also set new 12.1% to 3.35bn, but it should be noted that influences, including the developing environmental standards.
Investment in lower-cost this growth has been mainly driven through price economic recession and falls in world production facilities such as this should enable inflation.
Demand for cheese has also risen over the industry to emerge from the current period the 52 weeks ending 28 12 08, TNS Worldpanel commodity prices.
These have put of economic uncertainty in better shape.
statistics show total cheese sales have increased in volume by 0.6% to 376,454 tonnes.
pressure on some of the weaker The new year will, no doubt, bring fresh challenges.
Demand for commodity products But companies like Wiseman can meet these if participants in the industry which is It has been another year of volatile prices for they continue to bring innovation and efficiency likely to lead to further consolidation.
commodity products, such as skimmed milk powder, to customers, and further strengthen relationships butter and bulk cream.
After most commodity through the supply chain.
prices spiked in 2007, the last 12 months have seen Industry Trends marked declines, with that trend accelerating from The trend of rising raw milk prices in recent years, the late summer last year.
Since the farm-gate price which continued well into the last 12 month period, has reversed sharply in the last few months as the fall in commodity prices has gathered pace.
A dramatic decline in the value of commodities has impacted on liquid milk processors like Wiseman because of the need for the company to dispose Retail demand of bulk cream, a commodity by-product of fresh milk production.
for fresh milk has In addition, and despite the supply of milk tightening continued to grow in the UK, the effect that low commodity values has had, has been to make farm-gate milk more readily with volumes rising available to liquid milk processors as sellers try to find the highest possible value for farm-gate milk.
This combined with a decline in the value of bulk cream described above, has resulted in a reduction in the market value of farm-gate milk destined for liquid milk processors.
UK milk supply of milk is affected by the returns available from The 2008 09 milk year has witnessed a further these products, falling commodity prices are Maggie Urry has been her interest in the food decline in the production of milk, with deliveries especially significant for our milk suppliers.
following the food industry industry, including covering on and off for more than Robert Wiseman Dairies to dairies down by 2.8%.
This marks a fifth year of World and EU commodity prices have been under 30 years.
Most falling supply and brings UK milk production to its she trained as an investment recently she was a senior pressure.
In the UK, according to DIN Consultancy lowest level since the early 1970s.
While there are analyst specialising in the companies reporter for the figures, the price of bulk cream a particularly some indications that this trend could reverse in 2011 food manufacturing and paper, before leaving to important commodity for Robert Wiseman Dairies retailing sectors with a freelance this year.
She won and beyond, the confidence of farmers is low, and had fallen by 16.1% in the 12 months to March, leading City bank, before the Wincott Young Financial they are consequently reluctant to invest in expanding moving into financial Journalist award and was a from 930 to 780 per tonne.
Over the same period their herds.
While declining supply is a concern, Who is: journalism.
For the past 25 member of the FTs Lex team butter prices have fallen 9.3% to 1,950 per tonne Maggie Urry it may allow processors to concentrate on producing years she has worked in a when the column won the and skimmed milk powder by 26.2% to 1,550 number of roles with the Wincott Financial Journalist higher margin added value products, rather than per tonne.
Financial Times, maintaining of the Year award.
commodities, which could improve profitability through the dairy supply chain.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: Industry Overview 5 During the year, there has been a welcome return to a more normal differential between raw milk destined for fresh liquid milk and cheese.
Evolving supply chain relationships As a result, the actual milk price equivalent a The dairy industry relies on strong and healthy measure of the return available from processing raw relationships between farmers, processors and milk into butter and skimmed milk powder has retailers, this year has seen good progress made in fallen sharply from a peak of 36.3ppl in late 2007 improving communications throughout the supply and now stands at 19.6ppl, close to the return chain.
A better mutual understanding of farmers, implied by intervention prices for those commodities.
processors and retailers business models has been For the UK industry the picture has been clouded by achieved.
The dedicated groups of farmer suppliers the sharp movements of sterling against the Euro, established in recent years by retailers, such as the since EU commodity prices are set in the EUs currency.
Tesco Sustainable Dairy Group and the Sainsbury Sterlings rapid decline in the closing months of 2008 Dairy Development Group, have worked well and gave some protection, but since the turn of the year provided greater long-term certainty to all the the pound has edged upwards.
participants as well as premium prices to farmers.
Changing consumption habits Wiseman buys the majority of its milk requirement and emerging opportunities from farmers within the Wiseman Milk Group, Consumption of milk has remained firm.
Food industry and the Company is looking forward to working analysts suggest consumers are turning to comfort with additional producers who have committed to UK Daily Milk Production m litres foods and familiar favourites in the harsher economic join the group in coming months, taking the total 2008 2009 conditions.
There is also a trend towards eating more 42 to 880.
At the same time, the Company continues 2007 2008 meals within the home and shoppers have increasingly to enjoy good relations with First Milk, Milk Link 40 2006 2007 sought better value, a demand met by retailers with and the Organic Milk Co-operative which supply special offers.
the balance of its milk requirement.
38 One notable development has been the introduction During the year, there has been a welcome 36 by Tesco of a range of discounter brands, including return to a more normal differential between Robert Wiseman Dairies freshnlo milk, now sold 34 raw milk destined for fresh liquid milk and throughout the chain.
This has generated substantial cheese.
Weakening cheese prices have provided 32 increases in sales for the Company.
a disincentive to cheese producers to bid up for milk supplies.
Consumers are increasingly drawn to good-for-you Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar products and sales of lower fat milks have risen Source: Defra and Rural Payments Agency Robert Wiseman Dairies increased the price paid significantly since changes in EU labelling regulations to farmers in May, October and November last at the start of 2008 and a campaign by the Food year, helping them to overcome rising costs and Standards Agency to cut the amount of saturated fats contributing to an improvement in farm incomes.
UK Dairy Commodity Returns in peoples diets.
Wisemans 1% fat brand the One However, as noted earlier, the sharp fall in bulk was well placed to take advantage of this trend, and Mature Cheddar cream prices has put increasing pressure on the 3,600 in the autumn the Company backed it with national Mild Cheddar returns available to them and more recently advertising, leading to a 33% rise in sales.
Shoppers Butter Unsalted farmers costs have shown some reductions.
3,100 also want convenience and sales of Wisemans SMP extended shelf life milks, the own brand Puriti, and Following price cuts by other milk buyers, Robert Bulk Cream 2,600 Pure for Tesco, are showing an increase of over 30%.
Wiseman Dairies reduced the standard price paid However, the market for organic milk has weakened, to farmers in February by 2.2p per litre to 25.02p 2,100 suggesting shoppers are less willing to pay premium a lesser reduction than the fall in the value of cream prices when their incomes are under pressure.
Sales per litre since the end of 2007.
Even so, suppliers 1,600 of organic milk are running as much as 18% lower to the Company continue to benefit from above on the same month a year ago.
average farm-gate prices, and enjoy the extra 1,100 security provided by contracts which are ahead Over the year Wiseman has gained market share, of the industry standard.
600 winning new business with the Co-operative Retail From April 1, Tesco reduced the price paid to farmers Group, just as it acquired Somerfield, and supplying in its Sustainable Dairy Group by 1.32p per litre to an additional 137 Sainsbury Local stores from April Source: Dairyco Datum 27.43p per litre, reflecting a fall in farmers costs this year.
for feed and fuel as well as lower interest rates.
Developments in the processing sector The new price has been set for an initial six months.
The difficulties facing the dairy industry have led to Market share by volume a decline in profitability for the sector putting pressure In spite of recent falls in farm-gate milk prices on some processors.
For example, in November Dairy forecasts by industry analysts suggest that the Wisemans DC Farmers of Britain announced a restructuring of its milk longer term outlook is still for rising prices as a Arla business involving the closure of two dairies, taking shortage of supply should encourage increased Other 330m litres of capacity out of the industry.
In the short-term, though, it is clear that the industry must expect further volatility in prices.
However, the opening of Wisemans 80m Bridgwater dairy last summer, adding an initial 250m litres of capacity, and Arlas decision to upgrade its Stourton dairy at a cost of 70m, brings more modern, wellinvested and efficient capacity into the industry.
Investment of this magnitude in the sector is reducing the cost of production, which should improve industry profitability to the benefit of all involved from farmer to consumer.
