Robert Wiseman Dairies 14 Business Review: In Good Shape Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 In Good Shape Robert Wiseman, Chief Executive, discusses the last year and the outlook for Robert Wiseman Dairies, with Maggie Urry.
Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: In Good Shape 15 Bridgwater is a total investment of 100m.
Weve already spent over 80m to get the first phase up and running.
Weve started investing in the second phase now.
Maggie Urry: Lets start with the last financial Weve invested a lot of money in the One, our 1% MU: So is Bridgwater the last dairy year.
It was a difficult period, and underlying you will build?
fat milk, over the last wee while.
The same with Tesco Pure and our Puriti brand, our RW: As James Bond said, never say never.
And then freshnlo, which we Robert Wiseman: A year when you make two profit But, yes, I would say its the last one we have launched in England and Wales as a discounter brand warnings is not a record wed like to keep too long.
It in our heads as the business sits at the moment.
for Tesco, is growing spectacularly well.
has been tough, but I would rather be selling milk than There might well be other dairies built in the selling houses.
Tough years are good for the business, UK but Im not convinced it will be by us.
MU: But reaching that 3p target is a bit good for the industry.
Its certainly focussed us on what further off?
Maggie Urry Bridgwater is a total investment of 100m.
we should and shouldnt be doing.
is a former RW: Yes, I keep saying that 3p is what we aim for, Weve already spent over 80m to get the first senior companies MU: What went wrong and what can you do but it is a big ask.
When you start looking at the phase up and running.
Weve started investing reporter for the differently in future?
money that we invest, I think its a number thats in the second phase now, which is purely Financial Times.
See biog on page 4. completely justifiable.
But its a very competitive market machinery, and the third phase is the same, RW: As we explained at the profit warnings, we work in.
Youve got people thrashing around at the so its not big capital expenditure from now on.
commodities went up and down like a fiddlers elbow bottom end trying to survive and it causes problems.
and we had the huge increase in costs oil, derv, MU: When youre past the heavy Youve got Dairy Farmers of Britain, a major competitor plastic bottles, and utilities so all of these things capital expenditure... in the UK, thats paying a milk price thats 5p a litre affected us.
RW: We should fling cash off?
Weve sat back this year and said should we be MU: Yes, you recently picked up a chunk of MU: Who will you fling that to?
Im not a great lover of hedging things.
Is there scope Weve hedged in diesel twice.
It was right and proper RW: Shareholders!
Hello, Ive invested in you for you to continue increasing market share to do it both times and the second time it was much since 1994.
Our skill is in collecting, processing, now there are only three major players?
more successful than the first.
Weve been buying packing and delivering raw milk.
Im not one to RW: I think because its so competitive and there utilities on a hedged basis for quite a while, but go away and buy a cheese factory or a yoghurt are pressures mounting on other people, that the plastic bottles are a huge input for us and we factory just for the sake of it.
opportunity is there for us.
In 1994 when we floated cant hedge those at all.
MU: So after a few more years, Robert we had 2% of the market and we were the 11th MU: Those upheavals have made the milk Wiseman Dairies stops growing and biggest dairy company in the UK.
And now the price volatile too.
top three have the guts of 80% of the market.
RW: As an industry were going to have volatility, RW: Brilliant.
Weve been going to the City since As well as the target of 3p a litre, weve also thats just the way it is.
I think there is stability on 1994 and they keep saying its a growth story.
Well, got a target of getting to 33-35% market share.
the milk price coming, but that might be six or sometimes youve got to transfer from a growth I think well keep growing, weve done it every year.
You think of the dairy farmer story to a cash story.
And sometimes youve got to If we keep doing it right, if we keep hitting delivery producing milk and one day were paying him 27p, be a defensive stock rather than a growth stock.
windows, we keep providing the products that people 28p a litre and then suddenly its back to 25p or 24p Is there anything wrong with that?
Im not going want at a price that they want and the condition a litre.
Weve got to be aware that we are part of a to sit here and say when we get to the end of this that they want, I see no reason why we cannot world market, and prices go up and prices go down.
Im going to buy a chain of flower shops because keep growing.
I know absolutely diddley squat about flower shops.
MU: So what was the highlight of last year?
MU: You will need to win more business from MU: And the dividend will be going up?
the retailers to do that and your supermarket RW: Bridgwater, first phase, not a problem.
Are customers are notorious for switching RW: Thats the plan.
But not in any extravagant we happy with it?
We will be in a much suppliers.
Do you think with fewer, larger manner in case we need the cash.
If we see the stronger position coming out of this recession than processors that will happen less?
going in because there are a lot of people that arent right investment for the business we would look at it, but weve certainly no intention of rushing sitting with the ammunition that weve got.
Weve RW: I think we are in a much more stable position into investing in things we know nothing about.
got, I think, the best dairies in the industry.
Were now than we were 10 years ago, five years ago even.
We dont think thats the right way to utilise continuing to invest in Bridgwater, the new depot With any competitive industry like milk, youre always at Amesburys starting.
going to see some customers moving from one supplier to another just in the normal course of business.
But I MU: Is that the point when you retire?
MU: When do you think you might reach dont see huge changes happening, no.
your goal of making an operating profit RW: Maybe.
Do I have any desire to of 3p per litre of milk?
MU: So youre confident of reaching your retire next week?
Would you need to RW: Ive got to be very careful what I say!
Thats I havent made my mind up.
build another dairy to do that?
been a target since we achieved it way back in If I think Im holding things back, Ill retire.
Weve been reasonably successful at RW: Wed need to finish Bridgwater third phase.
weve got a great management team.
Weve got bouncing around 2p a litre.
Last year we made It would get us to doing 500m-600m litres out of an established management thats full of experience 2.17p.
I would love to think we could get that in that dairy, and that would give us the capacity to and weve got new directors, vibrant people, the next 12 months, but thats a big call for us.
who have joined in the last three to five years.
take us to the 33-35% market share.
We lost that bit of volume for Tesco, which we MU: So the futures good?
MU: The UK milk market is mature, once didnt enjoy, but weve picked up business, notably youve reached your market share target from the Co-op.
RW: The industry is under a lot of pressure.
But weve will you look abroad for growth?
got the best dairies, weve got the best depots, and we Germany?
MU: Youve been developing brands for your dont have an awful lot of debt.
milk, is that a way to improve the margin?
We are what we are, and were Were in good shape.
Would I say that we are seeing really good at what we do in this country.
If you look dramatic increases in net returns because of the for a liquid market thats like ours its very difficult to increase in the brands?
No, would be the honest find one within Europe.
We invest in marketing and we try and to get to 33-35% thats another 5 or 7 % of the UK make it pay for itself, and its working at the moment.
market, thats a lot of milk.
