Robert Wiseman Dairies Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Business Review: The TNS Worldpanel View 21 The consumer perspective Morrisons within the take home market.
Value driven There is no doubt that consumers are becoming retailers including the hard discounters as well as The TNS Worldpanel far more price conscious in the current UK retail Iceland are also gaining market share as consumers environment.
Consumers buying considerations are become even more price savvy.
being influenced by price 55% of consumers highlight View: Key Themes At a total grocery level value driven chains are this as being very important, versus the actual brand performing strongly with total Discounters growing they are buying in contrast only 8% said that this at around 20% over the last quarter followed by was very important.
in 2009 Asda and Morrisons who are growing at around The historical growth in organic has stalled, and 10%, but from a more significant base.
even attitudes towards buying organic have changed Over the last year, we have seen big Attracting more shoppers to brands within milk is mainly driven by market sectors where there are large absolutely key and every brand within the Robert changes in consumer behaviour as differences in the price on organic versus conventional Wiseman range is achieving this including freshnlo, produce.
What has remained strong is consumer the environment surrounding us in the the One, Tesco Pure and Wiseman Black & White.
awareness of buying local, as well as animal welfare freshnlo attracted an additional 2.6 million shoppers so it proves that if consumers really understand the UK, as well as around the world, has over the last year.
concept of what they are buying, they are less likely altered.
Some of the areas of utmost to downscale.
The growth in free range is a good So what are the big trends to look example of this helped by the awareness created out for in 2009?
concern for consumers now centre by celebrity chefs such as Jamie Oliver.
Brand value and communicating what brands stand around rising prices for goods and for is even more important in the current trading When we asked a cross section of UK consumers environment including links to relevant consumer services, health, recession, terrorism where they were looking to cut back their spending, touch points such as local, healthy, and authentic.
several areas were identified such as eating out, and global warming.
Value does not necessarily mean cheap.
clothing & footwear, entertainment, mobile phone contracts and leisure facilities.
Many of these areas Consumers are also changing their behaviour from a are little luxuries that we enjoy when times are good.
consumption angle putting more importance on take Lower down the list of priorities was food and drink, home meal occasions which also tend to be planned but what is interesting is how consumers are changing and linked into bigger basket shops.
This puts greater their behaviour within this core area.
importance on main meals such as breakfast where milk plays its more important role as an ingredient With grocery inflation now sitting at 8.7% across to cereal and hot drinks as well as being consumed the 75,000 items that we record, the inflation in on its own.
actual consumer spending is behind this at 5% which shows us that consumers are cutting back within food Homemade cooking continues to gather pace in and drink overall by trading down retailers, as well as the current climate as consumers look to manage trading down price tiers within store.
ingredients, as well as making meals go further within the home.
This is particularly relevant for families and With a UK grocery market now worth 85.3bn and TNS Worldpanel specialise Mark Thomson currently then ingredients within dairy such as crme fraiche, in understanding consumer looks after TNS Worldpanel growing at 6.2% year on year, this environment cheese, eggs and of course milk.
behaviour within the grocery in Scotland with a client represents different challenges as well as several industry.
To achieve this we base which includes opportunities.
Fresh milk accounts for 3.5% of this In-home entertaining is also a growing occasion as have a panel of 25,000 companies such as S&N total grocery figure with the take home market now fewer people eat out, as well as drink out of home.
households across the UK Heineken, Baxters, and mainland and from this we of course Robert Wiseman worth just over 3bn in mainland UK within a 9.2bn Opportunities here within dairy for party dips such understand where they shop, Dairies.
Even in a downturn, dairy sector.
The growth in spend within fresh milk as sour cream as well as within fresh chilled desserts what they purchase as well the need to understand has predominantly been driven by inflation as volumes and puddings.
as their attitudes and consumer behaviour is remain flat.
However, within this there are sectors such lifestyles including who they vital and Mark works Brands that remain relevant to consumers will thrive as filtered milk which are performing strongly and are.
This is then weighted up closely with his clients in the current environment although other pressures to represent the current UK to achieve this.
now being purchased by 1 in every 4 UK households.
Article written by: exist around margins and price, especially within milk.
population representative of Mark Thomson, region, age, social class, etc.
Within fresh milk the big 4 Tesco, Asda, Sainsburys The current economic downturn is also different this Strategic Insight Director, TNS.
and Morrisons retailers have a combined share of time around as health is now high on the agenda 62% and then the merger of Somerfield and Co-op for consumers as well as the government.
Milk has in 2009 will create a retailer with a share similar to an important role to play here.
