Robert Wiseman Dairies 6 Business Review: Partnerships that Perform Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 The companys approach to milk procurement has are elected for a 3 year period elections taking been consistent since deregulation of the dairy place annually on a rota basis.
industry which took place in the Autumn of 1994.
More recently major customers including Tesco P artnerships We believe that as we approach the 15th anniversary and Sainsbury have moved to develop strong of deregulation, it is appropriate now to measure partnerships with farmer suppliers by creating progress, and to determine whether Wisemans policy dedicated and segregated groups of Wiseman of working with farmers is a partnership that performs.
Members of these groups benefit from a premium price and other forms of assistance that Perform Leading up to deregulation, all dairy producers in the designed to improve on-farm profitability and UK were afforded the opportunity to choose a milk environmental performance.
buyer consistent with their type of dairy production system, geographic location and personal preference.
So how has Wiseman and the Wiseman Milk Robert Wiseman Dairies offers a Partnership Board performed since deregulation?
Many chose to join farmer owned co-operative farm-gate milk price which compares organisations, believing that this would offer the Produced and verified independently by milkprice.
com, favourably to many of those offered opportunity for greater leverage and ownership using mp.
com standard litre comparisons 1 million within the dairy supply chain.
Others chose dedicated litre per annum producer: 4.0% butterfat and 3.3% by other milk buyers in the UK.
cheese-makers or companies focused on fresh protein, Wiseman Milk Group producers have liquid milk, like Wiseman.
generated higher levels of return for their milk than those supplying other major milk buyers.
Farmers who contracted to supply Wiseman now number 830, and are members of a producer As the table below demonstrates, actual cash returns group called the Wiseman Milk Group WMG.
show even greater benefits as the Wiseman Milk Representatives are elected to a central board where Group have the option to invest their extra returns they meet with representatives from Wisemans as and when they wish rather than being subject on a quarterly basis to discuss and resolve strategic, to mandatory retentions by the relevant milk buyers.
