Corporate governance International Advisory Board 69 International Advisory Board The International Advisory Board IAB was formed in 2006.
It advises the Group on emerging political, business and economic trends.
Membership of the IAB is as follows: Taizo Nishimuro Lord Powell of Bayswater Chairman of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. and former Chairman of Chairman of IAB, former Foreign Affairs and Defence Adviser to Prime Toshiba Corporation Ministers Margaret Thatcher and John Major Lubna Olayan Bernard Duc, CBE CEO and Deputy Chairperson of the Olayan Financing Company Senior Partner HMI Ltd Hong Kong, Chairman of the Rolls-Royce South East Asia Advisory Board, former Deputy Chairman of the Rolls-Royce Eduardo Serra European Advisory Board President and founder of Eduardo Serra y Asociados ESYA, former Spanish Defence Minister, former President of the Royal Board of Trustees Sir Rod Eddington of the Prado Museum Chairman, J. P. Morgan Australia & New Zealand and former Chief Executive, British Airways Plc Rair Simonyan Chairman, Morgan Stanley, Russia, former first VP of Russian State oil Dr Fan Gang company, Rosneft Professor at Chinas Academy of Social Sciences and Director of National Economic Research Institute Ratan Tata Chairman of Tata Sons Limited Carla Hills Chair and CEO, Hills & Company, International Consultants, former US Matthias Wissmann Trade Representative, former Secretary of Housing and Urban President of the German Association of the Automotive Industry VDA, Development, former Assistant Attorney General Vice-Chairman of the Federation of German Industries BDI and Senior International Counsel at WilmerHale, Former Federal Minister of Research General Sir Mike Jackson and Technology and of Transports of Germany Former Chief of the General Staff, UK Ministry of Defence Lee Hsien Yang Mustafa Ko Chairman, Fraser and Neave Limited Chairman of Ko Holding, A.. Ernesto Zedillo Former President of Mexico, Director, Yale Center for the Study of Globalization Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 70 Corporate governance Composition of the board Composition of the Board The Articles of Association also provide that no person may be Simon Robertson chairs the Board of directors and Sir John Rose is the appointed to the office of chairman in an executive capacity or to the Chief Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set office of chief executive, managing director or joint managing director down in writing and agreed by the Board.
Iain Conn is the Companys of the Company, unless he or she is a British citizen.
No person may be Senior Independent Director.
There are currently 14 directors on the appointed to the office of director of the Company if, immediately Board comprising the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, following such appointment, the number of directors of the Company four other executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
who are not British citizens would exceed one half of the total number of directors of the Company for the time being.
The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Boards composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys the Boards effectiveness and also prevents any individual or small group Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given dominating the Boards decision making.
Each executive director by special resolution, the directors may exercise all the powers of receives a service contract on appointment see page 83 for further the Company.
information and each non-executive director receives a letter setting out the conditions of his or her appointment.
Independence of the non-executive directors The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, non-executive directors remain independent.
The Combined Code does which may be extended with the agreement of the Board, although not regard the Chairman as being independent in view of his unique reappointment is not automatic.
Executive directors are employees who role in corporate governance.
However, on his appointment as Chairman have executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors.
on January 1, 2005, Simon Robertson met the criteria for independence Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the contained in the Combined Code.
His other significant commitments are daily business management of the Group.
There were no Board changes described on page 66. during the year.
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the directors every year, based on the criteria in the Combined Code.
This review was are subject to re-election every year, with each director also being undertaken in 2009 and the Board concluded that all the non-executive subject to re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
Any directors other than the Chairman were independent in character director appointed during the year is separately required to retire and and judgement.
The Board determined that Peter Byrom remains seek election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting independent in character and judgement notwithstanding that he AGM.
The Board also requires any non-executive director who has has served on the Board for more than nine years, that there are no served on the Board for more than nine years to be subject to annual relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect his independent re-election at the AGM.
judgement and that he is in no way dependent on the remuneration he receives from the Company.
The directors retiring under the annual re-election provisions contained in the Articles of Association are Professor Peter Gregson, Dr John Role of the Board McAdam, Helen Alexander CBE and Andrew Shilston.
They all offer The Board is responsible to all the Companys stakeholders for its themselves for re-election.
conduct and for the performance of the Company.
The day-to-day running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the executive Peter Byrom, having served more than nine years on the Board, is subject team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
The to annual re-election by shareholders.
No other non-executive director Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which has served for more than nine years on the Board.
In recommending affect the shape and risk profile of the Company, as well as items such as Peter Byrom for re-election, the Board took account of the desirability the annual budget and performance targets, the financial statements, of retaining a director with long experience on the Board.
The Board payments to shareholders, major capital investments and any substantial believes strongly that, in a long-term, complex and technologically change to balance sheet management policy.
This division of advanced business, it is essential that non-executive directors have responsibilities between the Board and the executive team is set out in the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the experience detail in a schedule approved annually by the Board, which also defines and knowledge of the business and the sectors within which the those decisions which can only be taken by the Board itself.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance Composition of the board continued 71 The Board has approved the following statement summarising its In the autumn of 2009, the JCA Group conducted a Board review which core responsibilities: took the form of a facilitated self-evaluation by the Board.
The review included confidential, unattributable, one-on-one interviews with each Primary goal Board member and the Company Secretary which covered corporate The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy governance, board effectiveness, strategy development, risk creates value for the long-term investor within an acceptable risk profile.
management and Board and Committee organisation, composition, operation and dynamics.
The Board members unanimously agreed that The Boards tasks the Board was working as an effective whole.
The review highlighted the In line with its primary goal, the Boards principal tasks are to: crucial importance of strategic execution and the need to remain ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it vigilant to future business challenges.
In addition, Board members under rigorous review: welcomed the introduction of closer co-ordination between the audit, monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the ethics and remuneration committees.
necessary financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and that effective controls exist to manage risk: Conflicts of interest safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can corporate reputation and the safety of its products: have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure with the interests of the Company unless that situational conflict has through effective succession planning and remuneration policies been authorised by the Board.
The Board has reviewed and authorised that it is maintained at world-class standards: and all directors situational conflicts and has agreed that while directors are maintain an effective corporate governance framework that aspires required to keep confidential all Company information, they shall not be to deliver long-term value to shareholders.
required to share with the Company confidential information received by them from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
Directors induction, training and information The authorisation of situational conflicts is reviewed annually.
Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction programme and receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed Indemnity information on the Group.
An existing executive director acts as a mentor The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of to each newly appointed non-executive director, giving guidance and its directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that advice as required.
As part of their briefing, non-executive directors visit already provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the key sites and meet a cross-section of managers and employees to gain a Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has also arranged better understanding of the Group and its operations.
Ongoing training is appropriate insurance cover for any legal action taken against its available for all the directors, including presentations by the executive directors and officers.
team on particular aspects of the business.
There is a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Board effectiveness The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors present, in order to review the operation of the Board.
The Chairman has an annual meeting with each nonexecutive director to review his or her contribution to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of the executive and non-executive directors excluding the Chairman to review the performance of the Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to him.
Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive as part of the annual salary review process overseen by the remuneration committee.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of the other executive directors in the same way.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
