Corporate governance Other statutory information 77 B Shares ten per cent of its issued ordinary share capital as at February 11, 2009.
Up to July 2008, the Company had issued B Shares as an alternative The Company did not make use of this authority during 2009. to paying a cash dividend.
All remaining B Shares were redeemed on September 22, 2008 and cancelled.
The Company has no intention of The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares expires at the issuing further B Shares.
conclusion of the AGM in 2010 and a resolution to renew it will be proposed at that meeting.
Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations on holdings There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the Voting rights ordinary shares or C Shares other than under the Articles of Association Deadlines for exercising voting rights as described below, under restrictions imposed by law or regulation Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting instructions must for example, insider trading laws or pursuant to the Companys share be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before a dealing code.
The Articles of Association provide that the Company should general meeting.
be and remain under United Kingdom control.
As such, an individual foreign shareholding limit is set at 15 per cent of the aggregate votes Voting rights for employee share plan shares attaching to the share capital of all classes taken as a whole and capable Shares are held in various employee benefit trusts for the purpose of of being cast on a poll and to all other shares that the directors determine satisfying awards made under the various employee share plans.
For are to be included in the calculation of such holding.
shares held in a nominee capacity or if plan trust rules provide the participant with the right to vote in respect of specifically allocated Shareholder agreements and consent requirements shares, the trustee votes in line with the participants instructions.
For There are no known arrangements under which financial rights carried by shares that are not held absolutely on behalf of specific individuals, the any of the shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holder general policy of the trustees, in accordance with investor protection of the shares and no known agreements between the holders of shares with guidelines, is to abstain from voting in respect of those shares.
restrictions on the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
Major shareholdings No disposal may be made to a non-Group member which, alone or At February 10, 2010, the following companies had notified an interest in when aggregated with the same or a connected transaction, constitutes the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with the a disposal of the whole or a material part of either the nuclear business Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: or the assets of the Group as a whole, without consent of the Special % of issued Shareholder.
ordinary Company Date notified share capital Authority to issue shares AXA S. A. January 11, 2010 4.90 At the AGM in 2009, authority was given to the directors to allot new BlackRock Inc. December 3, 2009 5.34 ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 124,899,130, equivalent to Invesco Limited February 4, 2008 6.91 one-third of the issued share capital of the Company as at February 11, Legal & General Group plc 14 October 2009 3.96 2009.
Such authority is valid until the AGM in 2010 or 18 months from April 30, 2009, whichever is the earlier.
A further special resolution was passed Other statutory information to effect a disapplication of pre-emption rights for a maximum of five per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at February 11, 2009.
Political donations The directors propose to renew these authorities at the AGM in 2010.
In line with its established policy, the Group made no political donations pursuant to the authority granted at the 2009 AGM.
At the AGM in 2009, authority was given to the directors to allot new C Shares up to a nominal value of 350 million as an alternative to a cash Although the Company does not make, and does not intend to make, dividend.
Such authority is valid until the AGM in 2010 or 18 months donations to political parties, within the normal meaning of that from April 30, 2009 whichever is the earlier.
The directors propose to expression, the definition of political donations under the Companies renew this authority at the AGM in 2010.
Act 2006 is very broad and includes expenses legitimately incurred as part of the process of talking to members of parliament and opinion Authority to purchase own shares formers to ensure that the issues and concerns of the Group are At the AGM in 2009, the Company was authorised by shareholders to considered and addressed.
These activities are not intended to support purchase up to 185,137,887 of its own ordinary shares representing Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
