18 Business review Market outlook Market outlook As in the Groups other business sectors, programme lives are long and The Group operates in four long-term global there is a significant opportunity to support equipment with aftermarket markets civil and defence aerospace, marine services estimated at US$280 billion over the same period.
Customers budget constraints and their need to increase the value they derive from and energy.
These markets create a total their assets have accelerated the move in this direction.
opportunity worth in excess of US$2 trillion Marine over the next 20 years and: The Group forecasts a demand for marine power and propulsion systems valued at more than US$200 billion over the next 20 years.
have very high barriers to entry: Demand will be greatest in the commercial sector, where the shipping offer the opportunity for organic growth: of raw materials, finished goods and people, in addition to oil and gas feature extraordinarily long programme lives, usually measured exploration and production activity, play crucial roles in the world in decades: economy.
These activities require large fleets of specialised and can only be addressed through significant investments in technology, increasingly sophisticated ships, which have to be continually infrastructure and capability: and renewed and supported to remain operationally efficient.
create a significant opportunity for extended customer relationships, with revenues from aftermarket services similar in size to original Merchant and offshore markets are rarely at the same stage of the equipment revenues.
business cycle, which helps to reduce overall volatility.
Whilst naval markets are driven by different considerations, customers are similarly The size of these markets is generally related to world Gross Domestic seeking to get more from their budgets, leading to increasing demand Product GDP growth, or in the case of the defence markets, global for integrated systems and through-life support arrangements.
As in security and the scale of defence budgets.
the Groups other markets, marine aftermarket services are expected to generate significant opportunities, with demand forecasted at Civil aerospace US$120 billion over the next 20 years.
The Group publishes a 20-year global market outlook, which covers passenger and cargo jets, corporate and regional aircraft.
We predict that Energy over the next 20 years 141,000 engines, worth over US$800 billion, will The International Energy Agency has forecast that over the next 20 years, be required for more than 65,000 commercial aircraft and business jets.
the worldwide demand for oil will grow by more than 20 per cent, for The forecast predicts faster growth rates for long-haul markets and those gas by 35 per cent and for power generation by more than 60 per cent.
markets to, from and within Asia.
These markets will continue to benefit To satisfy this demand, there will be a growing requirement for aero from more liberal air service agreements, which boost demand.
affecting demand include GDP growth, aircraft productivity, operating costs, environmental issues and the number of aircraft retirements.
While The Groups 20-year forecast values the total aero-derivative gas turbine the market can be temporarily disrupted by external events, such as war, sales in the oil and gas and power generation sectors at more than acts of terrorism, or economic downturns, it has, in the past, always US$70 billion.
Over this period, demand for associated aftermarket returned to its long-term growth trend.
In addition to the demand for services is expected to be around US$50 billion.
engines, the Group forecasts a market opportunity worth US$600 billion for the provision of product-related aftermarket services.
While the oil and gas market is large and growing, demand for aero-derivative gas turbines in the power generation segment is Defence aerospace twice that of oil and gas.
The Group forecasts that demand for military engines will be worth US$170 billion over the next 20 years.
The largest single market is Note: A long-term conversion rate has been used where necessary in order to present all expected to be the US, followed by Europe and the Far East.
Within Asia, figures in US$.
demand will be dominated by Japan, South Korea and India.
Trends are driven by the scale of defence budgets and geopolitical developments around the world.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
