72 Corporate governance Board committees Board committees The Board is assisted by its committees.
Details of their membership and principal terms of reference are set out below.
Their full terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2009 Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Ethics Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Helen Alexander CBE 8 7 1 1 6 6 4 4 Peter Byrom 8 7 1 1 6 6 4 3 Iain Conn 8 6 5 5 1 1 Professor Peter Gregson 8 7 1 1 6 5 James Guyette 8 8 Dr John McAdam 8 8 1 1 6 6 John Neill CBE 8 7 5 4 1 0 John Rishton 8 8 5 5 1 1 4 4 Simon Robertson 8 8 1 1 Sir John Rose 8 8 1 1 Andrew Shilston 8 8 Colin Smith 8 8 Ian Strachan 8 7 5 4 1 0 4 4 Mike Terrett 8 8 Remuneration committee The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The committee determines, on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the Chairman, the executive directors and a number of senior executives.
The committee met six times during the year.
The committees membership and principal terms of reference are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 80.
Nominations committee In 2009, Simon Robertson chaired the nominations committee.
Its other members were Helen Alexander CBE, Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, Professor Peter Gregson, Dr John McAdam, John Neill CBE, John Rishton, Sir John Rose and Ian Strachan.
The committee met once during the year.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors and on the membership of Board committees.
It is assisted in the former task by external recruitment consultants.
It reviews succession planning generally and also reviews specific appointments to the Board and to other senior positions within the Group.
The committee also oversees the annual review of Board effectiveness.
In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to the balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reflect diversity, international experience and strong managerial and business skills.
Before recommending the appointment of a non-executive director to the Board, the committee satisfies itself that the candidate will have sufficient time available to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
Audit committee The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive directors.
During 2009, John Rishton, who has recent and relevant financial experience, chaired the committee.
In 2009, its other members were Iain Conn, John Neill CBE and Ian Strachan.
The committee met five times during the year.
The Director of Risk, Head of Business Assurance and a representative of the external auditors normally attend the meetings.
Additionally, the Head of Business Assurance has direct access to the committee.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and any other Board member or senior executive may attend the meetings as necessary, at the invitation of the audit committee chairman.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance Board committees continued 73 The committee has responsibility for recommending the financial Ethics committee statements to the Board and for reviewing the Groups financial The ethics committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive reporting and accounting policies, including major announcements directors.
Ian Strachan chairs the committee and its other members made to a regulatory information service.
It is also responsible for during 2009 were Helen Alexander CBE, Peter Byrom and John Rishton.
the relationship with the external auditors and for assessing the role The committee met four times during the year.
The Director of Risk, and effectiveness of the internal audit function, which in Rolls-Royce who has executive responsibility for ethics, attends the meetings.
In addition, the committee reviews The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and other executives of the Groups procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the Company may be invited to attend meetings of the committee.
The committee is responsible for reviewing compliance with the Groups The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the Global Code of Business Ethics the Global Code and will, if appropriate, appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the nature, make recommendations to the Board for changes to the Global Code.
scope and results of the annual external audit.
It also approves the The Global Code sets out the principles to be followed by employees audit fee and, on an annual basis, assesses the effectiveness and when conducting business.
independence of the external auditors.
A resolution to reappoint the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to determine The committee reviews recommendations on ethical matters made by the auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the 2010 AGM.
The external regulatory authorities or other bodies and is responsible for committee keeps under review the Groups internal controls and systems making recommendations to the Board about whether these should for assessing and mitigating financial and non-financial risk.
It also be applied to the Company and, if so, to what extent.
It also has reviews and approves the business assurance work programme and responsibility for monitoring reports on issues raised through the ensures that this function is adequately resourced and coordinated with Groups confidential reporting line and for reviewing the results of the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year the committee receives subsequent investigations.
a written report on the reviews conducted throughout the Group by business assurance and reports from senior executives on the key The committee ensures that ethical policies and practice are subject to business risks and risk systems in selected sectors.
an appropriate level of internal audit and, where necessary, will appoint auditors to conduct an independent external review.
In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following policy is applied in relation to services provided by the Risk committee auditors: The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, with specific accountability for the system of risk management and for Audit related services the auditors undertake these services as it is work reporting key risks and their associated mitigating actions to the Board.
that they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities In 2009, its other members were James Guyette, Andrew Shilston, Colin relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, risk management Smith and Mike Terrett.
The risk committee met twice in 2009 and services, various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions reports annually to the Board on the policy, process and operation of and disposals: the risk management system and the principal risks facing the Group, identified through the risk management system.
Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant Rolls-Royce believes that the proactive management of risks is a consulting work in these areas is put out to tender: and fundamental part of achieving its business objectives.
This responsibility flows from the top of the organisation.
All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally prohibited from providing these services.
Throughout the year the committee monitors the cost of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any time it believes that there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined through the award of this work.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
