Risk escalation and monitoring Corporate governance Shareholders and share capital 75 An integrated range of tools and training underpins the risk process.
The risk escalation structure Implementation of an enterprise-wide software application enables the recording, analysis, communication and management of risks across the Group.
Group A global network of risk champions, mentors and facilitators drive the application of the standard process in their parts of the business and Business unit help to develop, embed and share best practice throughout the Group.
Function The risk management process is subject to continuous improvement.
Programme Department In 2009, training has been enhanced and a comprehensive curriculum of risk, reputation and ethics training has been developed for delivery at all levels of the organisation.
Work package Shareholders and share capital The process provides methods for escalation and delegation to the Share capital and voting rights appropriate levels within the organisation and ensures that actions are At December 31, 2009, the Companys authorised share capital was owned, defined, resourced and effective.
3,500,050,000.60 and comprised: 2,499,999,998 ordinary shares of 20p: 2,000,000,000,000 C Shares of 0.1p: one Special Share of 1: and 50,000 Risks may arise from a variety of internal and external sources.
They preference shares of 1. may be associated with regulations, customer requirements, economic conditions or competitor actions.
They could result from the capability On December 31, 2009, there were 1,854,087,040 ordinary shares, of the processes used to execute the business or from external causes, 12,577,437,184 C shares and one Special Share in issue.
The ordinary such as war, terrorist activity or pandemics.
shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for Payments to shareholders all major programmes, including business change plans.
Independent At the AGM on April 28, 2010 the directors will recommend an issue gated reviews are conducted where key risks and mitigating actions of 90 C Shares with a total nominal value of nine pence for each ordinary are identified and reported to management for incorporation into share.
Together with the interim issue on January 4, 2010 of 60 C Shares programme plans.
The risk management process places significant for each ordinary share with a total nominal value of six pence, this is emphasis on learning from and sharing prior experience.
the equivalent of a total annual payment to ordinary shareholders of 15 pence for each ordinary share.
Risks are documented in a framework of risk registers and are subject to regular review by management.
The top-level corporate risk register is Communication with shareholders updated and reviewed by the risk committee twice per year and the The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its Board also considers these risks in the context of the Groups business communications with shareholders.
It publishes an Annual report which strategy.
This ongoing process has been in place during 2009, up to is available on the Companys website.
There are also separate reports and including the date of approval of the Annual report.
covering the environment and community relations.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and the Implementation of the process financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and Development, implementation and maintenance of the standard global interim results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation process are the responsibility of a dedicated enterprise risk management in stockbrokers seminars and site visits.
This team is part of the Department of Risk, which reports to the Finance Director.
The team has created a comprehensive framework for Each year the Company holds an investors seminar in order to improve the assessment of risk management process maturity that enables the financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce focused improvement actions and drives consistent application of the investors to a broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain risk management process throughout the Group.
access to these and other presentations, as well as to the Annual report and other information about the Group, on the Groups website at www.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Risk action flowdown Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 76 Corporate governance Shareholders and share capital continued Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the sufficient requests are received before the end of the financial year Company highlights key business developments during the year and at preceding the meeting.
which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, nominations, remuneration and ethics committees are available to C Shares answer any questions from shareholders on the work of their committees.
Since January 2009, the Company has issued non-cumulative redeemable preference shares C Shares as an alternative to paying The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant a cash dividend.
Shareholders can choose to: documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the redeem all C Shares for cash: date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive redeem all C Shares for cash and reinvest the proceeds in additional communications electronically, notice is given by email of the availability ordinary shares using the C Share Reinvestment Plan operated by of documents on the Groups website.
Responsibility for maintaining Computershare Investor Services PLC the Registrar : or regular communications with shareholders rests with the executive keep the C Shares.
management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share Any C Shares retained attract a dividend of 75 per cent of LIBOR on the price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and 0.1p nominal value of each share, paid on a twice-yearly basis, and have market expectations.
Independent research is commissioned annually limited voting rights.
The Company has the option to compulsorily into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, redeem the C Shares, at any time, if the aggregate number of C Shares in the Senior Independent Director and the non-executive directors make issue is less than ten per cent of the aggregate number of all C Shares themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
issued, or on the acquisition or capital restructuring of the Company.
Share class rights On a return of capital on a winding-up, the holders of C Shares shall be The rights and obligations attaching to the different classes of shares are entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
the repayment of the nominal capital paid-up or credited as paid-up on the C Shares held by them, together with a sum equal to the Ordinary shares outstanding preferential dividend which will have been accrued but Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual not been paid until the date of return of capital.
They are also entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or, if they are corporations, The holders of C Shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at a corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
They have the General meeting only if a resolution to wind up the Company is to be right to ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the meeting considered, in which case they may vote only on such resolution.
and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere unduly with the business of the meeting, involve the disclosure of Special Share confidential information, if the answer has already been published on Certain rights attach to the special rights non-voting share Special the Companys website or if it is not in the interests of the Company or Share issued to HM Government Special Shareholder.
Subject to the the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Holders provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Treasury Solicitor may redeem of ordinary shares may receive a bonus issue of C Shares or a dividend the Special Share at par at any time.
The Special Share confers no rights and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
to dividends but in the event of a winding-up it shall be repaid at its nominal value in priority to any other shares.
Holders of not less than five per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company may requisition a general meeting of the Company.
Certain Articles in particular those relating to the foreign shareholding Members who represent at least five per cent of the total voting rights limit, disposals and the nationality of directors that relate to the rights of all the members who have a right to vote at the meeting or at least attached to the Special Share may only be altered with the consent of 100 members who can vote and hold shares paid up on average, per the Special Shareholder.
The Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote member, as to at least 100, can require the Company to include a at any general meeting or any other meeting of any class of matter other than a proposed resolution at an AGM unless it is shareholders.
Alternatively, such members may require the company to circulate a statement of not more than 1,000 Preference shares words with respect to a matter referred to in a proposed resolution or The 50,000 preference shares were issued pursuant to the Companys other business to be dealt with at a general meeting.
The members do incorporation and were subsequently redeemed.
not have to meet the costs of circulating the statement provided Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
