80 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Information not subject to audit Directors remuneration report This report to shareholders: The committee received advice on remuneration matters from Deloitte explains the policy under which the executive directors, the Chairman LLP and the Groups lawyers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.
and the non-executive directors are remunerated: and During 2009, Deloitte LLP also advised the Group on tax, assurance, gives details of the remuneration, fees and share interests of pensions and corporate finance and Deloitte MCS Limited provided the directors.
It provides the information required by the Large and Medium-sized Remuneration policy Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the The policy framework Regulations and describes how the Company applies the principles The Group operates in a highly competitive, international market.
of the Combined Code in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Its business is complex, technologically advanced and has long time The Company confirms that it complies with the requirements of the horizons.
The Group is committed to achieving sustained improvements Combined Code.
in performance and this depends crucially on the individual contributions made by the executive team and by employees at all The report was approved by the remuneration committee the levels.
The Board therefore believes that an effective remuneration committee on February 9, 2010 and was signed on the Boards behalf strategy plays an essential part in the future success of the Group.
by Helen Alexander CBE as the Chairman of the committee.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on April 28, 2010 inviting them Accordingly the Board has adopted, on the recommendation of the to approve this report.
committee, a remuneration policy reflecting the following broad principles which it will continue to apply in 2010: The remuneration committee the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the should reflect their responsibilities and contain incentives to Board on the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The deliver the Groups performance objectives: it must also be committee determines, on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration capable of attracting and retaining the individuals necessary for packages of the Chairman, the executive directors and a number of business success: senior executives.
A copy of the committees terms of reference is total remuneration should be based on Group and individual available on the Groups website at www.
performance, both in the short and long term: and the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of interest The committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive between senior executives and shareholders through measures such as directors.
During 2009, it was chaired by Helen Alexander CBE.
encouraging the senior executives to acquire shares in the Company.
Its other members were Peter Byrom, Professor Peter Gregson and Dr John McAdam.
When determining remuneration, the committee takes into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In 2009, Simon Robertson, Chairman, Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, the Director Human Resources and the General Counsel and Company The committee regularly reviews both the competitiveness of the Secretary, attended meetings by invitation of the committee but were Groups remuneration structure and its effectiveness in incentivising not present during any discussion of their own emoluments.
The executives to enhance value for shareholders over the longer term.
It committee met on six occasions in 2009 and details of members considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently attendance are set out in the table on page 72. flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
Advice to the remuneration committee The committee may call for information and advice from advisers inside The main components of remuneration and outside the Group.
In 2009, Sir John Rose made recommendations The main components of remuneration comprise base salary, benefits, to the committee relating to the performance of his direct reports and annual incentive arrangements, long-term share-based incentives and Simon Robertson made recommendations to the committee relating pension and life assurance benefits.
to the performance of Sir John Rose.
Internal support to the committee was provided primarily by the Director Human Resources, advised by Deloitte LLP.
Additional advice was provided by senior employees from human resources and finance.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Information not subject to audit 81 Base salaries APRA performance measures In determining the relative importance of these elements of The APRA performance measures set by the committee are based on remuneration, the committee believes that base salaries should be set at the Groups annual operating plans.
For 2009, the measures for executive levels required to recruit and retain high quality senior executives and directors included underlying profit, cash flow and individual with reference to the levels in the relevant marketplace for companies contribution assessed with reference to the achievement of personal of similar size, internationality and complexity.
The committee has objectives and overall personal performance.
These measures will commissioned salary benchmarks from Deloitte LLP.
The benchmarks remain unchanged for 2010.
The committee is mindful of corporate, have been prepared using their company size and complexity environmental, social and governance risks when setting personal methodology which is based on these factors.
Forty per cent of any APRA bonus depends on personal performance.
All salary increases must be justified on the basis of performance and are not automatic.
Other benefits are generally at the median of market In 2009, a high proportion of the annual remuneration for executive practice.
In 2009, there were no increases in base salaries for executive directors was based on performance.
For the Chief Executive, his 162 directors.
With effect from March 1, 2010 the median increase in per cent maximum bonus opportunity meant that 62 per cent of his executive directors salaries will be two per cent.
This is broadly in line combined basic pay and bonus opportunity was directly related to with salary increases of other employees in the Group.
annual financial and personal performance.
In 2009, the level of achievement against the financial measures was sufficient to generate Benefits up to 45 per cent of the maximum bonus for individual participants Executive directors and senior executives are entitled to a company car subject to the achievement of their personal objectives.
or car allowance, private medical insurance and financial counselling.
James Guyette is entitled to a housing allowance and the costs of Deferred APRA additional housing are met for Mike Terrett.
In 2009, the percentage of APRA delivered in the form of a deferred award in the Companys shares increased from 33 per cent to 40 per Annual incentives cent.
A participant who is granted a deferred share award under APRA Executive directors and selected senior executives participate in the must normally continue to remain an employee of the Group for two Annual Performance Related Award plan APRA.
For UK participants, years from the date of the award in order to retain the shares, although APRA awards do not form part of pensionable earnings.
shares will be released early in certain circumstances including retirement or redundancy.
Target and maximum APRA bonus opportunity Under APRA as operated in 2009, executive directors were eligible for The value of any deferred share awards is derived from the annual bonus awards in accordance with the table below: criteria and is therefore dependent on personal and business financial performance.
The release of deferred share awards is not dependent on Target bonus Maximum the achievement of any further performance conditions.
This as a % of bonus as a % 1 1,2 arrangement provides a strong link between performance and salary of salary remuneration, promotes a culture of share ownership amongst the James Guyette 75 125 Groups senior management and encourages decisions in the long-term Sir John Rose 81 135 interest of shareholders.
The deferred share element operated for 2009 Andrew Shilston 75 125 will result in share awards as described in the directors emoluments Colin Smith 75 125 table on page 85.
Details of deferred shares held under the plan are Mike Terrett 75 125 shown in the table on page 89.
1 The target bonuses are 60 per cent of the maximum bonus figure in the table.
2 It is possible for a bonus award to be increased by a further 20 per cent to reflect exceptional Other annual incentives personal performance.
Therefore the overall maximum is 162 per cent for Sir John Rose and 150 The same targets as set for APRA are used for the Managers Bonus per cent for the other executive directors.
Scheme and the All-Employee Bonus Scheme.
The Managers Bonus Scheme typically enables managers worldwide to receive a bonus of up to ten per cent of pay and the All-Employee Bonus Scheme up to two weeks pay, based on corporate and business performance.
Those participating in the Managers Bonus Scheme or APRA are excluded from the All-Employee Bonus Scheme.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 82 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Information not subject to audit Rolls-Royce Group plc Performance Share Plan The following CPS targets will apply to the grants to be made in 2010.
The Rolls-Royce Group plc Performance Share Plan PSP is designed to Aggregate CPS Percentage of reward and incentivise selected senior executives who can influence the over three-year performance period maximum award released long-term performance of the Group.
40p 30 62p 100 Under the rules of the PSP, selected executives are granted conditional share awards entitling them to a number of shares determined by The committee believes that these CPS targets are challenging and that reference to corporate performance over a three-year performance the performance necessary to achieve awards towards the upper end of period.
The measures of corporate performance are Cash Flow Per Share the range is stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as CPS, Earnings Per Ordinary Share EPS and Total Shareholder Return providing guidance on the Groups performance over the relevant period.
These measures are considered particularly important in generating shareholder value and are explained in more detail below.
PSP award levels There is no retesting of the performance criteria and no automatic The size of awards under the PSP is set taking into account competitive vesting in the event of a takeover.
In the three-year period to December levels within the marketplace for UK companies of a similar size and 31, 2009 the Companys financial and TSR performance generated 116.25 complexity to the Group.
In 2009, Sir John Rose received a conditional per cent of the number of shares awarded under the rules of the plan.
award of shares with a market value at the time of grant of 120 per cent of his annual salary.
For other executive directors the grant was 100 per Performance measures cent.
As described above, the number of shares released is increased if No shares will be released from the PSP unless the growth in the the Companys TSR is between the median and upper-quartile of the Companys underlying EPS exceeds the UK retail price index by three per FTSE 100 index.
cent per year over the performance period.
For 2010, the size of awards under the PSP will be unchanged and will The number of shares released if any will be determined in accordance therefore be as follows: with CPS targets, which will not be adjusted for inflation.
CPS is calculated as cash flow after interest, taxation and capital expenditure, PSP award but before cost of business acquisitions or proceeds of disposals and PSP award overall maximum as a percentage as a percentage payments to shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of of salary of salary shares in issue.
Intermediate levels of performance attract pro rata James Guyette 100 150 releases.
The Companys TSR over the performance period will be Sir John Rose 120 180 compared with the TSR of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Andrew Shilston 100 150 index on the date of grant.
This comparison will be carried out by an Colin Smith 100 150 independent agency.
Mike Terrett 100 150 If the Companys TSR is above the median of the FTSE 100 index, the number of shares due to be released to an executive will be increased by Share retention policy between 25 per cent and 50 per cent.
This increase is on a straight-line The committee believes it is important that the interests of the basis between the median and upper-quartile TSR performance in the executive directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The deferred APRA award and the PSP provide considerable alignment.
However, participants in the PSP are also required to retain at least one Shareholders have authorised the committee to set CPS performance half of the number of after tax shares released from the PSP, until the targets for future grants provided that, in the committees reasonable value of their shareholding reaches 200 per cent of salary for the judgement, the targets are no less challenging in the light of the Groups Chief Executive and 150 per cent for other executive directors.
When business circumstances and its internal forecasts than the targets for the this level is reached, it must be retained until retirement or departure initial grant in 2004 as approved by shareholders.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
