66 Corporate governance Board of directors Corporate governance Peter Byrom BSc, FCA Introduction Non-executive director A member of the remuneration, ethics and nominations committees Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the Peter Byrom was appointed to the Board in 1997.
He is Chairman of system by which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in Domino Printing Sciences plc and a non-executive director of AMEC plc.
the interests of all its stakeholders.
The strength of the Companys He is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
He was a director of corporate values, its reputation and its ability to achieve its objectives NM Rothschild & Sons Limited from1977 to 1996.
Age 65. are influenced by the effectiveness of the Companys approach towards corporate governance.
Iain Conn Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director The Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate A member of the audit and nominations committees Governance published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council Iain Conn was appointed to the Board in 2005.
He is an executive the Combined Code.
A printed copy of the code can be obtained free director of BP p. l. c. having held a range of executive positions within of charge from FRC publications, telephone: 44 0 20 8247 1264, email: the BP Group worldwide.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of customer.
The Imperial College Business School.
The Board confirms that throughout 2009, the Company complied Professor Peter Gregson with the Combined Code.
This report, which includes the Directors Non-executive director remuneration report on pages 80 to 90, explains how the Company A member of the remuneration and nominations committees discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
Peter Gregson was appointed to the Board in 2007.
He is President and Vice-Chancellor of Queens University Belfast and serves on the Northern Board of directors Ireland Economic Development Forum, the Council of CBI Northern Ireland and the Steering Group of the USIreland Research and Simon Robertson Development Partnership.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Non-executive Chairman Engineering, a Member of the Royal Irish Academy, and Deputy Chairman of the nominations committee Lieutenant of Belfast.
He was formerly Professor of Aerospace Materials Simon Robertson was appointed to the Board in 2004.
He is the founder and Deputy Vice-Chancellor of the University of Southampton and has member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP and a non-executive served on the Councils of the Royal Academy of Engineering and the director of HSBC Holdings plc, Berry Bros & Rudd Limited, and The Central Laboratory of the Research Councils.
He is a director of The Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited and a Trustee of The Eden Project and James Guyette BSc the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
He is the former President President and Chief Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North America Inc. of Goldman Sachs Europe Limited.
Jim Guyette was appointed to the Board in 1998 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1997.
He is a director of the PrivateBank and Trust Sir John Rose Company of Chicago, Illinois and of priceline.
com Inc. Until 1995 Chief Executive he was Executive Vice President, Marketing and Planning of United A member of the nominations committee Airlines.
Sir John Rose was appointed to the Board in 1992, having joined Rolls-Royce in 1984.
He has been Chief Executive since 1996.
Dr John McAdam He is a Trustee of The Eden Project.
Non-executive director A member of the remuneration and nominations committees Helen Alexander CBE John McAdam was appointed to the Board in 2008.
He is Chairman Non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC and of Rentokil Initial plc, the Senior Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the ethics Independent Director of J Sainsbury plc and a non-executive director and nominations committees of Sara Lee Corporation.
He was the Chief Executive of ICI plc until ICIs Helen Alexander CBE was appointed to the Board in 2007.
She is acquisition by Akzo Nobel.
President of the CBI and Chairman of the Port of London Authority and of Incisive Media.
She is a non-executive director and chair of the remuneration committee at Centrica plc and senior adviser to Bain Capital.
She was CEO of the Economist Group from 1997 to 2008.
Helen is also senior trustee of the Tate Gallery and a trustee of the World Wide Web Foundation.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Corporate governance Board of directors continued 67 John Neill CBE Mike Terrett Non-executive director Chief Operating Officer A member of the audit and nominations committee Mike Terrett was appointed to the Board in 2007, having joined John Neill was appointed to the Board in 2008.
He is the Chief Executive Rolls-Royce in 1978.
He has held a variety of senior positions in the of the Unipart Group of Companies.
He is a member of the Council and development of new aero-engine programmes, including Managing Board of Business in the Community and is a non-executive director of Director of Airlines and President and Chief Executive Officer of Charter International plc.
He is Vice President of the Society of Motor International Aero Engines IAE, based in the United States.
Prior to Manufacturers and Traders, BEN, the automotive industry charity and his appointment as Chief Operating Officer he was President Civil The Institute of the Motor Industry.
He is a Member of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers and a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
John Rishton Non-executive director Tim Rayner Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the ethics and General Counsel and Company Secretary nominations committees Tim Rayner joined Rolls-Royce in 2007 having previously been General John Rishton was appointed to the Board in 2007.
He is Chief Executive Counsel and Company Secretary at United Utilities PLC.
He began his career in 1979 at Ford Motor Company and held a variety of positions both in the UK and in Europe.
In 1994 he joined British Airways Plc where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2005.
He is a former non-executive director of Allied Domecq.
Andrew Shilston MA, ACA, MCT Finance Director Andrew Shilston was appointed to the Board in 2003 having joined Rolls-Royce in 2002.
He was a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC until May 2008 and he was Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 until 2002.
Colin Smith BSc Hons, FREng, FRAeS, FIMechE Director Engineering and Technology Colin Smith was appointed to the Board in 2005 having joined Rolls-Royce in 1974.
He has held a variety of key positions within Engineering, including Director Research and Technology and Director of Engineering and Technology Civil Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Ian Strachan Non-executive director Chairman of the ethics committee and a member of the audit and nominations committees Ian Strachan was appointed to the Board in 2003.
He is a non-executive director of Xstrata plc, Transocean Inc and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
He is the former Chief Executive of BTR plc, former Deputy Chief Executive 1991 to 1995 and Chief Financial Officer 1987 to 1991 of Rio Tinto plc, former non-executive Chairman of Instinet Group Inc and former non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc, Commercial Union and Reuters Group plc.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
