40 Business review Review of operations continued Services Services activities provide around one half of We work closely with customers to align service packages to the Groups revenues, having increased ten their operational needs.
per cent compound over the past ten years.
Tony Wood President Services As the original equipment manufacturer, Rolls-Royce is best placed to provide mission critical support, long-term product care and well planned maintenance on behalf of 4,927m US$1,050bn Underlying revenue Market opportunity over 20 years customers in each of the markets we serve.
The Groups service business capabilities include field services, the sale of spare parts, equipment overhaul services, component repair, data management, field support, equipment leasing and inventory management.
These are typically sold as packages such as our TotalCare suite.
We work closely with customers to align these service packages to their operational needs, helping to maximise the efficient operation of the equipment on their behalf.
In civil aerospace, over 65 per cent of the total large-engine fleet and nearly 90 per cent of the in-service Trent fleet is now managed under TotalCare.
We also have over 900 corporate and business jet aircraft enrolled in CorporateCare, the equivalent offering for this market sector.
This year, significant TotalCare contracts were signed with airlines in Asia, the Middle East and the US.
Defence continued to develop its MissionCare provision worldwide and its service presence on military bases.
A number of long-term engine service agreements were signed with customers of the C-130J airlifter worldwide and contracts were signed with the UK Ministry of Defence in support of frontline fighter aircraft engines.
The US Department of Defense also signed major agreements for support of Rolls-Royce engines in service.
Energy secured 12 long-term service agreements which, together with the additional 35 new gas turbine units that will become operational during 2010, will take the number of gas turbines under long-term service agreement to over 300.
In support of the Rolls-Royce fleet in China, a 22-year maintenance, repair and overhaul agreement was signed with PetroChina for the West to MissionCare in defence East Gas Pipeline Project.
New service operations serving energy customers were opened in Angola, India, Israel, Kazakhstan Defence continued to develop its MissionCare service worldwide and service and Qatar.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Review of operations continued 41 Predictive capabilities Our operations centres specialise in acquiring and analysing data on the Rolls-Royce engine fleet in operation.
In the marine market our investment in capability and capacity continued to deliver benefits, with ten per cent services revenue growth in 2009.
Marine customers require their service centres to be close to their operational base and therefore the expansion of our network to serve their needs continued.
Six new centres were opened during the year in North America, South America, Europe and the Middle East.
We have also developed underwater intervention capability, enabling Rolls-Royce to complete major propulsion overhauls without the need for time-consuming dry dockings.
The Group invested over 10m this year in developing and restructuring our gas turbine repair and overhaul network, which will deliver significant improvements in performance and customer satisfaction.
We also upgraded our service processes and continued to make progress in standardising our IT systems for global services.
Our SAESL joint venture celebrated its 1,000th Trent engine overhaul and a Highlights 25 million facility extension was opened.
A similar investment in our HAESL joint venture is planned to open in 2010.
N3, our German-based Service revenues increased by four per cent to 4.9 billion repair and overhaul joint venture with Lufthansa marked its 100th Trent 65 per cent of the civil large engine fleet now under engine overhaul this year and is now fully capable for Trent 500 and 700 TotalCare support overhaul, with Trent 900 capability development underway.
2009 also saw OSyS expands service diagnostic and predictive capabilities the celebration of 50 years of repair and overhaul operations in Brazil.
Major defence contracts secured for Typhoon and C-130J airlifter engines During 2009 we opened our sixth On-Wing Care facility in Indianapolis, New marine service centres opened around the world US, and our field service capability supported over 4,000 aero engines Over 300 long-term service contracts now signed by energy globally.
Good progress has been made in applying this capability across all sectors.
Our focus on asset optimisation was further reinforced by the Optimized Systems and Solutions Inc. OsyS business, created in 2009.
OSyS has further expanded our in-service diagnostic and predictive Key performance indicators capabilities and signed contracts this year with Qatar Airways and 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 easyJet for its fuel management system, enabling them both to realise Underlying services substantial fuel savings.
OSyS also expanded the health monitoring revenue m 3,457 3,901 4,265 4,755 4,927 services and capabilities already applied successfully to aircraft engines Underlying services as and energy systems.
percentage of Group revenue 54 53 55 52 49 We expanded component repair coverage and capability across all sectors and delivered savings to Rolls-Royce of 120 million during 2009.
Our International Engine Component Overhaul Limited IECO joint venture in Singapore completed its 11th year of operation and the repair 90 of its one millionth component.
Both SAESL and IECO were recognised 90 per cent of the in-service Trent with several prestigious awards, highlighting their contribution to the fleet is now managed under Asia Pacific region, process innovation, new technology introduction and TotalCare.
TotalCare agreement As the original equipment manufacturer, Rolls-Royce is best placed to offer long-term support.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
