36 Business review Review of operations continued Engineering and technology In 2009, Rolls-Royce invested a total of An ongoing commitment to research and development is 864 million in research and development, fundamental to the Groups of which 471 million was funded from future success.
Colin Smith Director Engineering and Technology 864m 440 Investment Patent applications The Group believes that its ongoing commitment to research and technology for the next generation of civil gas turbine engines.
We development is fundamental to its future success, providing also continue to invest in several other large-scale demonstrator technologies and intellectual property that allow us to compete on a programmes to reduce carbon emissions with focus both on future gas global basis in highly competitive markets.
turbine technology and advanced manufacturing.
During 2009, we created a new advanced research centre in Singapore We completed wind tunnel testing of our open rotor aero-engine to develop manufacturing, electrical systems and high-power concept.
This concept uses large unducted fan blades to secure a computing capabilities.
Our new Mechanical Test Operations Centre in significant reduction in fuel burn when compared with modern Dahlewitz, Germany, neared completion during the year.
Our results demonstrated efficient performance and provide mechanical testing capability for all areas of the Group.
low-noise characteristics in line with our expectations.
Building on the success of our membership of the Advanced Next generation technology Manufacturing Research Centre, we have increased our focus on The Group has a global network of University Technology Centres undertaking advanced manufacturing.
In the UK, we announced our partnership in advanced research in specialist subject areas.
the new National Composites Centre, the Advanced Fabrication Research Centre, the Advanced Nuclear Research Centre and became the inaugural industrial partner in the Manufacturing Technology Centre.
Additionally, we became a partner of the US Commonwealth of Virginia in two new centres studying advanced aerospace propulsion systems and advanced manufacturing.
We continue to invest in our worldwide network of 27 Rolls-Royce University Technology Centres, which undertake advanced research for the Group across a range of specialist subject areas such as materials, noise, vibration and combustion.
During the year we filed 440 patent applications.
Improving the environmental performance of our products and operations continues to be a key driver for research and development in Rolls-Royce.
We have completed the first build of the Environmentally Friendly Engine and the second build of our mid-size technology demonstrator engine.
These will begin testing in early 2010, delivering Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Review of operations continued 37 Turbine blade The design, use of materials and the manufacturing processes that go towards the production of our high-pressure turbine blades exemplify the Groups engineering capability.
Our work for the US Air Force on the Adaptive Versatile Engine Technology ADVENT programme has led to us being awarded the second phase of funding, which will include the incorporation of Phase 1 technologies in a demonstrator engine.
ADVENT focuses on the variable cycle and geometry to meet demanding US defence requirements for the next generation of military engines.
We achieved notable engineering successes in each of our key business sectors.
In the civil aerospace business, the Trent 1000 successfully completed its Extended Twin Operations ETOPS testing and, at the end of the year, powered the Boeing 787 on its first flight.
The BR725 engine was certified and delivered on time and powered the new Gulfstream G650 corporate jet on its maiden flight.
The AE 3007A2 engine for the Embraer Legacy 650 completed the majority of its certification testing and started flight testing.
Highlights Our marine business has designed a radical wave-piercing hull concept Award of the second phase of the ADVENT programme for applications in the offshore marine market.
For the second year First flight of the Trent 1000-powered Boeing 787 running Rolls-Royce won the coveted Ship of the year award, this time First flight of the BR725-powered Gulfstream 650 for the Far Samson the most powerful offshore vessel ever built.
The First flight of the TP400-powered Airbus A400M Littoral Combat Ship, USS Freedom, completed US Navy acceptance First in-flight engagement of the F-35 LiftSystem trials in preparation for entering service.
The first Type 45 destroyer, HMS Daring, has entered service with the Royal Navy powered by the WR-21 Initial trials of the first Astute class submarine and work on her sister ships is progressing well.
The first Astute class nuclear-powered attack submarine with the Rolls-Royce designed, Key performance indicators full-life, PWR2 power system has sailed for initial trials.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 In defence aerospace, the Airbus A400M powered by the Europrop Gross research and TP400 turboprop engine made a successful first flight in 2009 and the development expenditure m 663 747 824 885 864 BAE Systems Mantis unmanned aerial vehicle, powered by Rolls-Royce, Net research and also operated flawlessly during its flight trials.
In the F-35 Joint Strike development expenditure m 339 395 454 490 471 Fighter programme, the first development F136 engine was delivered Net research and one month ahead of schedule.
The Rolls-Royce LiftSystem, for the short development charge m 282 370 381 403 379 take-off and vertical landing variant, completed ground testing and Net research and development aircraft taxi trials ahead of its first engagement in-flight, which was expenditure % of achieved early in 2010. underlying revenue 5.2 5.4 5.8 5.4 4.7 In energy, the latest industrial Trent combustion system entered service during the year and the design of the high efficiency RB211-H63 has progressed significantly.
We continue our work on low carbon energy solutions.
During 2009, we began installation of a 500kW tidal power generator in the waters off the coast of Scotland and the Group continues to invest in engineering capability to support its move into the civil nuclear energy market.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
