80 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Information not subject to audit Directors remuneration report This report to shareholders: The committee received advice on remuneration matters from Deloitte explains the policy under which the executive directors, the Chairman LLP and the Groups lawyers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP.
and the non-executive directors are remunerated: and During 2009, Deloitte LLP also advised the Group on tax, assurance, gives details of the remuneration, fees and share interests of pensions and corporate finance and Deloitte MCS Limited provided the directors.
It provides the information required by the Large and Medium-sized Remuneration policy Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the The policy framework Regulations and describes how the Company applies the principles The Group operates in a highly competitive, international market.
of the Combined Code in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Its business is complex, technologically advanced and has long time The Company confirms that it complies with the requirements of the horizons.
The Group is committed to achieving sustained improvements Combined Code.
in performance and this depends crucially on the individual contributions made by the executive team and by employees at all The report was approved by the remuneration committee the levels.
The Board therefore believes that an effective remuneration committee on February 9, 2010 and was signed on the Boards behalf strategy plays an essential part in the future success of the Group.
by Helen Alexander CBE as the Chairman of the committee.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on April 28, 2010 inviting them Accordingly the Board has adopted, on the recommendation of the to approve this report.
committee, a remuneration policy reflecting the following broad principles which it will continue to apply in 2010: The remuneration committee the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the should reflect their responsibilities and contain incentives to Board on the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The deliver the Groups performance objectives: it must also be committee determines, on the Boards behalf, the specific remuneration capable of attracting and retaining the individuals necessary for packages of the Chairman, the executive directors and a number of business success: senior executives.
A copy of the committees terms of reference is total remuneration should be based on Group and individual available on the Groups website at www.
performance, both in the short and long term: and the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of interest The committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive between senior executives and shareholders through measures such as directors.
During 2009, it was chaired by Helen Alexander CBE.
encouraging the senior executives to acquire shares in the Company.
Its other members were Peter Byrom, Professor Peter Gregson and Dr John McAdam.
When determining remuneration, the committee takes into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In 2009, Simon Robertson, Chairman, Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, the Director Human Resources and the General Counsel and Company The committee regularly reviews both the competitiveness of the Secretary, attended meetings by invitation of the committee but were Groups remuneration structure and its effectiveness in incentivising not present during any discussion of their own emoluments.
The executives to enhance value for shareholders over the longer term.
It committee met on six occasions in 2009 and details of members considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently attendance are set out in the table on page 72. flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
Advice to the remuneration committee The committee may call for information and advice from advisers inside The main components of remuneration and outside the Group.
In 2009, Sir John Rose made recommendations The main components of remuneration comprise base salary, benefits, to the committee relating to the performance of his direct reports and annual incentive arrangements, long-term share-based incentives and Simon Robertson made recommendations to the committee relating pension and life assurance benefits.
to the performance of Sir John Rose.
Internal support to the committee was provided primarily by the Director Human Resources, advised by Deloitte LLP.
Additional advice was provided by senior employees from human resources and finance.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
