12 Business review Our strategy continued Our strategy in action Delivering today, investing for the future Rolls-Royce is growing globally and at the same time meeting the challenges of managing the business today.
Our consistent strategy has ensured that the Group is resilient in the current economic climate and is still able to plan and invest for future growth.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Our strategy continued 13 Addressing our four global markets Serving a global customer base We are a leading integrated power systems company, operating in civil and US$1,400bn defence aerospace, marine and energy markets.
We serve customers in over 120 Civil aerospace market opportunity countries and forecast a 20-year market opportunity of US$2 trillion.
US$450bn Defence aerospace market opportunity Our gas turbine products are shipped to customers all over the world, by land, sea US$320bn and air.
Marine market opportunity US$120bn Energy market opportunity Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 14 Business review Our strategy continued Our strategy in action Investing in technology, infrastructure and capability Future capacity Rolls-Royce is investing in capital projects all over the world as the Group increases its operational capacity.
We are growing as a result of our increased market share and substantial order book.
During 2009, building work began on the new US facility in Crosspointe, Virginia, where we will make discs for gas turbines.
2.7 billion The Group has invested 2.7 billion in capital projects over the past ten years.
R Rolls-R olls-Ro oy yce Gr ce Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2009 t 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business r Business re evie view w Our strategy continued 15 Our strategy in action Developing a competitive portfolio of products and services Powering the F-35 Lightning Rolls-Royce is a partner with General Electric in producing the F136 main propulsion engine for the F-35 and, in addition, Rolls-Royce has designed the LiftSystem which is employed in the F-35B, or STOVL, version of the aircraft.
This is just one of the many major new programmes on which the Group is engaged.
The Rolls-Royce designed LiftFan is used in the F-35B as part of the overall LiftSystem.
The F-35B LiftSystem was engaged in flight for the first time in early 2010.
R Rolls-R olls-Ro oy yce Gr ce Group plc oup plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2009 t 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review 16 Business review Our strategy continued Our strategy in action Growing our market share and installed product base World-leading offshore support and power Rolls-Royce is a major partner of oil and gas companies all over the world, not just providing industrial gas turbines as power systems for the platforms but also providing the designs for, and much of the equipment on board the specialist vessels that support the platforms.
The Groups UT-Design of offshore vessel is a world leader, incorporating significant amounts of Rolls-Royce technology and equipment.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review Business review Our strategy continued 17 Our strategy in action Adding value for our customers through productrelated services Data management for predictive maintenance As the original equipment manufacturer, we have access to data on the Rolls-Royce fleet of gas turbines.
We gather, analyse and act upon this data to ensure that we can maximise the value of the gas turbines in service with our customers.
We have expanded the capability of our operations centres.
These centres manage data and help plan and drive the services offered by the businesses.
90 Ninety per cent of Trent fleet under TotalCare management.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2009 Financial statements Corporate governance Business review
