Governance Report of the Directors The directors submit their report which per ordinary share 2008:16.75p.
An Notification of Major Interest in Shares incorporates the management report interim dividend of 11.15p per ordinary Since the 2008 Directors Report the required under the Disclosure and share 2008: 9.25p was paid on 25 Company has been notified of major Transparency rules for listed companies September 2009. interests and voting rights held directly and the audited accounts for the year and or indirectly by the following: ended 31 December 2009 as set out on Share Capital pages 46 to 90.
In compiling this report, Details of the ordinary shares issued % of Voting Rights the directors have consulted with the during 2009 are given in note 16.
Details of Legal & General 3 management of the Group.
the Companys share capital including rights and obligations attaching to each Aegon UK Group of Companies 5 Principal Activities class of share are set out in note 16 of the BlackRock Investments 10 Rotork p. l. c. is a holding company.
5p ordinary shares principal activities of the Rotork Group are represent over 99.9% of the Companys the design, manufacture and support of total share capital.
1 preference shares Research & Development actuators, systems and related products represent less than 0.1% of the Total Group expenditure on research & worldwide.
development in the year was 3,557,000 2008: 3,552,000 further details of which The Rotork Group provides a range of The Companys Articles of Association are contained in the Business Review on products, systems and services for the contain customary restrictions on the pages 10 and 11. motorisation and manual operation of and transfer of shares as applicable only in adaption to industrial valves and dampers certain limited circumstances e. g. in Charitable Donations for isolation duty and process control relation to transfers to a minor.
Save for During the year the Company made applications.
It does this through its Controls, those provisions there are no restrictions charitable donations of 87,000 2008: Gears and Fluid Systems divisions.
on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 71,000.
Actuated valves are major control capital of the Company other than certain elements in refineries, pipelines, power restrictions which may be required from There were no political donations made in stations, water distribution systems and time to time by law, for example, insider the year or the prior year.
effluent treatment plants and in all industries trading law.
In accordance with the Model in which liquids or gases are transported Code which forms part of the Listing Rules Directors through pipes.
A summary of the principal of the Financial Services Authority as The names of the directors in office during subsidiaries and branch offices of the adopted by the Company certain directors the year end and their biographical and Group are set out on pages 94 and 95. and employees are required to seek the other details including the other significant prior approval of the Company to deal in commitments of the Chairman are as The Business Review of the Group is set its shares.
The interests out on pages 8 to 28.
It provides a of the directors in office at the end of the balanced and comprehensive analysis of The Company is not aware of any financial year in the shares of the the development and performance of the agreements between shareholders that Company are as shown in the business during the year under review and may result in restrictions on the transfer of Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42. the position at the end of the year, securities and or voting rights.
The including the future development of the Companys Articles of Association contain RE Slater, RH Arnold, GM Ogden and PI business and information about limited restrictions on the exercise of France have service agreements and environmental matters, the Companys voting rights e. g. in relation to details of these are contained in the employees and social and community disenfranchised shares following the issue Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42. issues.
The review contains analysis using of a notice to shareholders under section financial and non-financial key 793 Companies Act 2006.
The Companys procedure with regard to performance indicators.
the appointment and replacement of The Companys Articles of Association directors and those powers reserved for In November 2009, the Group acquired the may only be amended by special the Board is described in the Corporate business and assets of Flow-Quip resolution at a general meeting of Governance Report on pages 32 to 36.
transaction are provided in note 3 to the At the Annual General Meeting AGM, Accounts.
The Company is not aware of any in accordance with the Articles of significant agreements to which it is party Association, IG King and PI France will The principal risks and uncertainties facing that take effect, alter or terminate upon a retire by rotation and, being eligible, will the Group and the Groups approach to change of control of the Company offer themselves for re-election.
JM Davis mitigating those risks are set out on pages following a takeover.
will also be subject to election at the AGM, 22 and 23. it being the first opportunity to do so Employee Share Schemes following his appointment as a director on Dividends Shares in the Companys share schemes 1 April 2010.
As previously announced, The directors recommend a final dividend all contain provisions providing voting RE Slater will resign his directorship on of 14,943,000 for the year, payable on 7 rights to the scheme Trustee.
May 2010 to shareholders on the register on 9 April 2010.
This represents 17.25p ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 43 Report of the Directors continued Financial Instruments The directors are responsible for keeping For further information regarding the An explanation of the Group policies on adequate accounting records that are Company's objectives, policies and the use of financial instruments and sufficient to show and explain the processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives are Company's transactions and disclose with financial risk management objectives: contained in note 25 to the accounts.
reasonable accuracy at any time the details of its financial instruments and financial position of the Company and hedging activities: and its exposures to Statement of Directors Responsibility enable them to ensure that its financial credit risk and liquidity risk, see note 25. for Preparing the Annual Report and statements comply with the Companies The Financial Statements Act 2006.
They have general responsibility Creditor Payment Policy The following statement, which should be for taking such steps as are reasonably While there is no formal code or standard, read in conjunction with the auditors open to them to safeguard the assets of it is Company and Group policy to settle Statement of Auditors Responsibilities, the Group and to prevent and detect fraud terms of payment with creditors when included in the audit report, is made with and other irregularities.
agreeing the terms of each transaction and a view to distinguishing for shareholders to abide by creditors terms of payment the respective responsibilities of the Under applicable law and regulations, the provided that the supplier is also complying directors and of the auditors in relation directors are also responsible for preparing with all relevant terms and conditions.
a Directors' Report, Directors' There are no creditors subject to special Remuneration Report and Corporate arrangements outside suppliers terms and The directors are responsible for preparing Governance Statement that complies with conditions.
The Company does not have the Annual Report and the Group and that law and those regulations.
any trade suppliers so that a creditor day Company financial statements in payment period is not appropriate.
accordance with applicable law and Directors Statement Pursuant to the regulations.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules Directors and Officers Indemnity Each of the directors, whose names and Insurance Company law requires the directors to functions are listed on pages 30 and 31 Subject to the provisions of the prepare Group and Company financial confirm that, to the best of each persons Companies Acts the Companys Articles statements for each financial year.
Under knowledge and belief: of Association provide for the directors that law they are required to prepare the the financial statements, prepared in and officers of the Company to be Group financial statements in accordance accordance with the applicable set of appropriately indemnified.
The Company with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the accounting standards, give a true purchases and maintains insurance for the applicable law and have elected to prepare and fair view of the assets, liabilities, directors and officers of the Company in the Company financial statements in financial position and profit of the undertaking their duties, in accordance accordance with UK Accounting Group and Company: and with section 233 Companies Act 2006.
Standards and applicable law UK the directors' report includes a fair Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
review of the development and Disclosure of Information to Auditors performance of the business and the The directors who held office at the date of Under company law the directors must not position of the Group and Company, approval of this Directors Report confirm approve the financial statements unless together with a description of the that, so far as they are each aware, there is they are satisfied that they give a true and principal risks and uncertainties that no relevant audit information of which the fair view of the state of affairs of the Group they face.
Companys auditors are unaware: and and Company and of their profit or loss for each director has taken all the steps that that period.
In preparing each of the Group The directors are responsible for the he ought to have taken as a director to and Company financial statements, the maintenance and integrity of the corporate make himself aware of any relevant audit directors are required to: and financial information included on the information and to establish that the select suitable accounting policies and Company's website.
Legislation in the Companys auditors are aware of that then apply them consistently: UK governing the preparation and information.
make judgments and estimates that dissemination of financial statements may are reasonable and prudent: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors for the Group financial statements, Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc state whether they have been prepared Going Concern as auditors and to authorise the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted The Company has considerable financial to determine their remuneration are to be by the EU: resources, together with business proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
for the Company financial statements, operations across a number of different state whether applicable UK sectors and geographic areas.
As a Annual General Meeting Accounting Standards have been consequence, the directors believe that The AGM of the Company will be held at followed, subject to any material the Company is well placed to manage its the Companys offices at Rotork House, departures disclosed and explained in business risks successfully.
Therefore the Brassmill Lane, Bath BA1 3JQ on Friday, the Company financial statements: and directors have a reasonable expectation 23 April 2010 at 12 noon.
A separate prepare the financial statements on the that the Company has adequate resources circular containing the Notice of the going concern basis unless it is to continue in operational existence for the Meeting is sent to shareholders with this inappropriate to presume that the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they Annual Report & Accounts.
Group and the Company will continue continue to adopt the going concern basis in business.
in preparing the annual financial statements.
On behalf of the Board Stephen Rhys Jones Secretary 44 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009
