Business Review continued Rotork Gears manufacture gearboxes supplier base there which will give for both manual and automated duty at us greater security of supply their plants in the UK, the Netherlands, alongside cost savings.
We have Italy and China, and are now the largest recently begun the process of supplier of products of this type globally.
establishing production in India, The products can be broadly split into and early signs are that component three areas: gearboxes for motorised quality is good and that the market operation, which are fitted to an actuator is receptive to our products and to improve mechanical advantage: methodology.
gearboxes for manual operation used by global valve OEM customers to allow We have created an improved research manual operation of their valves and and development team which through gearboxes for specialist sub-sea and 2009 made good progress on several large pipeline applications.
The Divisions projects that will benefit the division in David Littlejohns MD Rotork Gears sales success is based on securing and 2010.
This function will receive continued retaining large key valve maker accounts investment as we focus on our ability to and we have recently been able to attract introduce new and enhanced products new customers often in new markets to support our drive for increased market who we expect to work with beyond share.
Our new web-based quality the current year.
system allows unification of the systems Partnering with previously used across the world and is customers over showing results in our constant drive for the long term is a improvements in quality, consistency and fundamental part reliability.
of the business model in Rotork We expect to see increased demand for Gears, and our specifiable sub-sea and largeturn success in bringing new customers into products that are often designed to our portfolio has a long term impact.
customers exacting specifications, and A key area of growth for the division is supplied from the Italian manufacturing based on increased sales in new and plant.
The Indian project provides both emerging markets, and while growth of sales and supply chain opportunities the division has so far been based on with India representing a growth market traditional European and US markets, in that contains a number of high quality the last few years we have seen increased OEM valvemakers who are competing sales and marketing activity in China and successfully on international projects and more recently, India, Japan and Russia.
who are keen to partner with a quality gearbox manufacturer that is capable of The wider market conditions facing our providing them with international support.
customers had an impact on us in 2009, and although sales revenue was flat, our In the coming year we intend to broaden margins were eroded by cost pressures our customer base by continuing our Revenue in part caused by the strengthening of sales and marketing initiatives in countries the Chinese currency.
Revenue in the like China, India, Russia and Japan year was stable but operating profit fell as well as continued efforts to secure 0.1% with the margin reducing from 23.4% new customers in our traditional strong to 21.8%.
Europe was down with all European and US markets.
This will be 36.8m 2008: 36.8m countries that we operate in showing supported by an expanded product reduced performances compared with offering and operational initiatives that Operating Profit the prior year.
Asia however was the will ensure that we continue to offer least affected, and profit here increased our customers the best solution to their materially over the comparative.
The needs providing high quality products -6.9% production facility in China has made and service at a competitive price.
substantial improvements in the last few 8.0m 2008: 8.6m years and we are now widening our 16 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review A key area of growth for the division is based on increased sales in new and emerging markets.
Business Opportunities Russia, India and China America Water Works Association market European and uSA Fire Safety FM uL market Fireball Safety override market Trend for larger gearboxes Acquisition s In this picture: Derek Greenman Assembler Fitter ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17
