Board of Directors The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, the three independent non-executive directors and the four executive directors all supported by the company secretary.
Executive Peter France Bob Arnold Chief Executive President Of Rotork Controls Inc. Peter 41 joined Rotork in 1989 and in 2008 was appointed Bob 58, who was appointed to the Rotork p. l. c. Board in 2001, Chief Executive of Rotork p. l. c. Prior to that appointment is a graduate engineer.
Previously with Westinghouse in the Peter has had roles within Rotork as Chief Operating Officer, USA, he joined Rotork Controls Inc. as Engineering Manager Managing Director of Rotork Fluid Systems, Director of Rotorks subsequently becoming Vice President, Engineering and since Singapore company with responsibility for South East Asia and 1988 President of Rotork Controls Inc. Bob has responsibility for in International Sales.
all Rotorks interests in the Americas.
Graham Ogden Bob Slater Research & Development Director Finance Director Graham 53 holds a PhD and 1st class honours degree in Bob 58 joined Rotork in 1989 as Finance Director of the Rotork electronic engineering from Bristol University and has been with Actuation Division, and was appointed to the Board of Rotork Rotork since 1985.
Graham has been closely involved in product p. l. c. as Group Finance Director in 1998.
He has previously held development including our award winning IQ series.
He was finance positions in mining, building controls and the engineering appointed to the Rotork Actuation Divisional Board in 1997 as industry.
Research & Development Director and joined the Board of Rotork p. l. c. in January 2005.
30 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Key Audit Committee JE Nicholas Chairman, A Walker, IG King Nomination RC Lockwood Chairman, A Walker, IG King, JE Nicholas, PI France Remuneration A Walker Chairman, IG King, JE Nicholas Non-executive Roger Lockwood Ian King Chairman Non-executive Director Roger 64 has been a non-executive director of Rotork Ian 53 joined the Board in February 2005 as a non-executive since joining the Board in 1988 and became non-executive director.
He is Chief Executive of BAE Systems plc having held Chairman in November 1998.
He is Chairman of the Nomination other senior general management positions at BAE Systems Committee.
He is Chairman of Colston Engineering Services and previously at Marconi.
He is a member of the Audit, Limited and Hydro International plc and has previously held Remuneration and Nomination Committees and is the senior CEO roles in automotive and engineering businesses.
John Nicholas Alex Walker Non-executive Director Non-executive Director John 53 was appointed to the Board in 2008 as a nonAlex 63 joined the Board as a non-executive director in January executive director.
He was previously Group Finance Director 2001.
He was previously Chief Executive of Yule Catto & Co. of Tate & Lyle plc and Kidde plc.
He is also a non-executive plc until 2006.
He is also a non-executive director of Spirent director of Mondi plc, Hunting plc and Ceres Power Holdings plc Communications plc.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration and is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Financial Reporting Council FRC.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committees.
Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31
