Business Review continued into orders has been difficult at times.
continues to be busy and we are now This project activity has been supported increasing our direct customer facing by an increased level of sales order presence there to support strong project quotations across the division which activity across the region.
with feedback from customers generally, gives us encouragement that what we Europe saw oil & gas companies have seen are delays that will be resolved continuing to invest, although there and that order intake will follow quotations is no doubt that it has become more that we are seeing.
We are increasing difficult to predict the timing of order our focus in several market related areas placement here.
The power sector including production in India, product for remains active and we are enhancing nuclear and ship board applications, and our product offering to take advantage sector specific product for Asia, all areas of capital investment in the coming few where we see opportunities for us in the years.
In Iberia, where we provide strong Peter France MD Rotork Controls next few years.
customer support at all levels across projects through our Rotork Site Services During the year revenue increased by offering, we have had good growth in 11.2% to 227.3m with second half the year and see this continuing.
Our site output being down 2.9% on the first service businesses are making an impact half.
Operating profit rose by 26.4% to across our regions and we see this as an 72.6m and the second half important area of growth going forward.
Restated at 2008 exchange rates operating In Russia we have a growing direct profit would have increased by presence and we have seen positive 11.3% for the year and 27.4% signs from across market sectors.
Currency overall has been a positive for North America has seen a strong 2009 has been another record year in the the division and a weakening of sterling improvement over last year in electric actuator division with excellent against the euro and the US dollar has revenue up 13% and profit up performances in all territories and across made our products generally more over 30% and activity levels most of the sectors that we serve.
The attractive against those of our European remain strong.
Process Control business saw both order and US competitors.
Order intake was intake and sales revenue at lower than slightly down by 1.7% on the prior There has been some slowing 2008 levels, but the core electric actuator year, and this, coupled with a currency in South America regionally business had a strong performance in movement since last year end meant that although our companies in revenue and profit with margins again the closing order book for the division was both Venezuela and Brazil improving over the prior year.
Predominantly improved their performance seen strong project activity in all our this order book will ship in 2010. over the prior year and traditional markets, oil & gas, power, water are reporting increased and waste water although converting this We saw good performances from the investment in oil & gas Americas, and across Asia with China infrastructure projects.
continuing to post strong double digit Revenue revenue and profit growth.
Europe was generally flat although we had an excellent performance from our 11.2% businesses in Spain and Portugal.
The impact of stimulus packages was seen 227.3m 2008: 204.5m in a number of locations in the area of water, waste water and power, although Operating Profit oil & gas was selectively strong also.
We are making good progress in the Chinese water markets where we have strategically 26.4% aimed both product development and marketing resource.
The Middle East 72.6m 2008: 57.5m 12 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review We have seen strong project activity in all our traditional markets.
Business Opportunities Nuclear Brazil, Russia, India, China and the Middle East Continued investment in new products and markets Rotork Process Controls including CVA In this picture: Lee Jones Service Engineer ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13
