Business Review continued Business Opportunities Transmission and Distribution Increased investment by National Oil Companies Expected increase in upstream capex New products and broader market focus Nuclear Safety and information diagnostics A key strategy has been to support customers locally in their markets.
In this picture: Shane Hunter Apprentice 14 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business Review The RFS focus on upstream oil & albeit for smaller values.
Our approach gas markets and projects has been to the markets we serve having sales responsible for the strong growth in offices supporting local customers was the division over the last few years a significant part of the success and this Alex Busby MD Rotork Fluid Systems and our products have been oriented will position us well in the future.
It has been a divisional strategy to maintain a Sales revenue was strong in the year and high presence in upstream whilst at 99.7m it was up 12.6% on the prior term significance to us in these markets developing products for the year and establishes a new record for the is important in delivering our strategy in downstream oil & gas market division.
The Lucca plant had a difficult the Americas, from both a product and where there has been significant year as it dealt with the relocation and a geographical perspective.
restructuring issues begun in 2008, which The strategy has been are now behind us.
However we saw Product development continues to be successful for the division in good growth in the UK, the US, Canada a major focus and the appointment of that it provided opportunity and Spain, and the Melle Germany a Technical Director for the division has for growth in new markets production facility had a strong trading been an important step in both this and and targeted geographic performance.
Profitability improved in the ongoing advancement and coareas whilst reducing most of our companies, and margin ordination of what is now a wide range the overall dependency overall increased to 14.3% from 13.6%.
A common on one market sector.
Products such as gasover-oil and high-pressure gas actuators have allowed the division to participate in downstream areas such as LNG, gas transmission and compressor station pipeline projects.
Along with the development of these products and relevant industry approvals, A key strategy has been to support approach to technical issues across acquisitions have added to the product customers locally in their markets, and the range and the development of an portfolio providing growth and increasing our Sales, Rotork Site Services and RFS look and feel will benefit from this the markets the division can participate in, support systems are focussed on this.
such as petrochemical and pulp & paper.
Oil & gas sector activity remains strong at engineering design level and we are During 2009 we saw a reduction in global confident of some large projects being oil & gas investment, both upstream released during 2010.
The Middle East and downstream, with financial and remained our largest end destination investment constraints in many countries.
market, but we also had increased This had an effect on project activity success in China, and refurbishment generally and whilst enquiry levels projects and pipeline construction work in remained high, decisions on project Russia.
In North America the gas pipeline awards were protracted, and the size of industry saw expansion in LNG terminals the projects were smaller than had been inserting imported LNG into the existing seen in previous years.
All of this had an pipeline system.
In the US overall we Revenue impact on the order intake across the had real success with American OEMs division.
providing equipment domestically and internationally: the Rochester operation 12.6% Overall, we feel that the divisional input doubled its output over 2007. performance, although down by 11.9% in 99.7m 2008: 88.6m value against a record and market peak in In November we completed the acquisition 2008, represents a solid result in current of Flow-Quip, a producer and distributor of Operating Profit market conditions.
The breadth of our pneumatic actuators and valves focussed product range and reduced dependency on the US and South American markets.
on one market allowed us to receive While its current year contribution to the 17.8% more orders in number than in 2008, division was modest, its medium and long 14.2m 2008: 12.1m ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15
