qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 62 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report together key performance indicators can be found on increases the risks to which the Group is with the audited financial statements for the page 8.
The Board does not use nonexposed.
Nothing in the Business Review year ended 31 December 2009. financial key performance indicators to assess should be construed as a profit forecast.
the Group as a whole, but component parts Results and dividend Principal risks and uncertainties of the Group do use non-financial key The income statement is set out on page performance indicators from time to time.
The principal risks and uncertainties 68 and shows the profit for the year.
The The principal operating subsidiary are reported on page 25 in the Risk Directors recommend a final dividend of undertakings are listed in Note 5 to the Management section of the Operating 2.19p 2008: 1.91p per share.
This together with the interim dividend The Business Review contains certain Corporate Governance of 2.01p 2008: 1.75p per share paid on forward looking statements with respect to The Directors report on corporate 22 October 2009 gives a total dividend the financial condition, results of operations governance can be found on pages 49-60 of 4.20p 2008: 3.66p per share for the and businesses of RPS.
These statements and incorporates other parts of the Report year ended 31 December 2009. involve risk and uncertainty because they 62 and Accounts as detailed therein.
relate to events and depend upon Principal activities and circumstances that may occur in the future.
Substantial shareholdings business review There are a number of factors that could The Company is aware of the following Business review information can be found cause actual results or developments to interests in excess of 3% of the ordinary within the Business Review pages 9 to 32 differ materially from those expressed or share capital of the Company as which reports on RPS Groups principal implied by these forward looking at 11 February 2010: activities and performance during the past statements.
The current uncertainty in year and prospects for the future.
Financial global economic outlook inevitably No.
of shares Percentage Co-operative Asset Management 18,126,453 8.42 William Blair & Company 12,201,232 5.67 Aberforth Partners 11,587,492 5.38 Legal & General Investment Management 9,009,918 4.18 Neuberger Berman 7,903,576 3.67 Threadneedle Investments 7,726,902 3.59 Aegon Asset Management 7,316,583 3.40 Impax Asset Management 6,791,950 3.15 Black Rock 6,576,769 3.05 Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 63 Accounts Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and their beneficial interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company were: No.
Following cessation of employment on 20 November 2009 and in accordance with the rules of the scheme Mr Troup had a period of six months within which to exercise his outstanding options.
Mr Troup exercised all outstanding options within this period.
At date of exercise the market price was 207.5p.
Mr Troups outstanding awards are as at date of resignation.
The LTIP award made to Mr Troup in 2007 will, subject to satisfaction of the normal performance conditions and in accordance with the original terms of the award, be released on 14 March 2010.
The LTIP awards made to Mr Troup in 2008 and 2009 lapsed on cessation of employment on 20 November 2009.
Report and Accounts 2009 23846 DRAFT 27 Mar19 back.
qxd 22 3 10 12:24 Page 65 Accounts The market price of the shares at comply with the requirements of the with the definitions and recognition criteria 31 December 2009 was 217p and the Companies Act 2006. for assets, liabilities, income and expenses range during the financial year was 121.25p set out in the International Accounting Financial statements are published on the to 250p.
Standards Boards Framework for the Groups website in accordance with Preparation and Presentation of Financial None of the Directors were materially legislation in the United Kingdom governing Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, interested in any significant contract to the preparation and dissemination of a fair presentation will be achieved by which the Company or any of its financial statements, which may vary from compliance with all applicable IFRS.
A fair subsidiaries were party during the year.
The presentation also requires the Directors to: maintenance and accuracy of the Groups Employees website is the responsibility of the consistently select and apply The Groups policies in relation to Directors.
The Directors responsibility also appropriate accounting policies: employees are disclosed on pages 19 extends to the ongoing integrity of the present information, including and 20. financial statements contained therein.
accounting policies, in a manner that 65 Each of the persons who is a Director at Charitable and community provides relevant, reliable, comparable the time of this report confirms that: donations and understandable information: and so far as the Director is aware, there is During the year the Group made charitable provide additional disclosures when no relevant audit information of which donations of 480,000 to non-political compliance with the specific the Companys auditors are unaware: organisations.
Total contributions including requirements in IFRS is insufficient to and contributions in kind amounted to 585,000. enable users to understand the impact the Director has taken all the steps that of particular transactions, other events Supplier payment policy he or she ought to have taken as a and conditions on the entitys financial The Group has due regard to the payment Director in order to make position and financial performance.
terms of suppliers and settles all undisputed himself herself aware of any relevant Under company law the directors must not accounts in accordance with payment audit information and to establish that approve the financial statements unless they terms agreed with the supplier.
At the year the Companys auditors are aware of are satisfied that they give a true and fair end the Group had 36 days purchases that information.
view of the state of affairs of the Group outstanding in respect of payments to This confirmation is given and should be and its profit or loss for that period.
suppliers and sub-contractors 2008: 36 interpreted in accordance with the days.
At the year end the Company had provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Parent company financial statements 16 days purchases outstanding in respect of Company law requires the Directors to payments to suppliers and sub-contractors The Directors are responsible for preparing prepare financial statements for each 2008: 36 days.
the Annual Report and the Financial financial year which give a true and fair view Statements in accordance with the Going concern of the state of affairs of the Company and Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are The financial statements have been of the profit or loss of the Company for also required to prepare financial prepared on a going concern basis as the statements for the Group in accordance that period.
In preparing these financial Directors have a reasonable expectation with International Financial Reporting statements, the Directors are required to: that the Group has adequate resources Standards IFRS as adopted by the select suitable accounting policies and to continue in business for the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS then apply them consistently: foreseeable future.
The Directors have chosen to make judgements and estimates that prepare financial statements for the Directors responsibilities are reasonable and prudent: Company in accordance with UK Generally statement Accepted Accounting Practice.
state whether applicable accounting The Directors are responsible for keeping standards have been followed, subject Group financial statements proper accounting records which disclose to any material departures disclosed with reasonable accuracy at any time the International Accounting Standard 1 and explained in the financial financial position of the Company, for requires that financial statements present statements: and safeguarding the assets, for taking fairly for each financial year the Groups prepare the financial statements on the reasonable steps for the prevention and financial position, financial performance and detection of fraud and other irregularities cash flows.
This requires the faithful going concern basis unless it is and for the preparation of a Directors representation of the effects of transactions, inappropriate to presume that the Report and Remuneration Report which other events and conditions in accordance Company will continue in business.
qxd 22 3 10 12:08 Page 66 Report of the Directors continued Under company law the directors must not Amendments to the Companys Articles Post balance sheet events approve the financial statements unless they of Association are being proposed at this There are no significant post balance sheet are satisfied that they give a true and fair years Annual General Meeting which have events to report.
view of the state of affairs of the company some impact on the rights attaching to the Additional information for that period.
Explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in The following additional information is The Directors confirm that they have the notice of this meeting which provided for shareholders as a result of the complied with the above requirements in accompanies this report.
implementation of the Takeover Directive preparing the financial statements.
Directors interests in the share capital of Directors responsibilities statement pursuant the Company are shown in the table on As at 31 December 2009 the Companys to DTR 4 page 63.
Substantial shareholder interests of issued share capital consisted of The Directors confirm that to the best of which the Company is aware are shown on 215, 247, 277 ordinary shares of 3p each.
At a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in the financial statements, prepared in 66 The Company is party to a number of person is entitled to vote on a show of accordance with International Financial commercial agreements which, in line with hands and on a poll every member present Reporting Standards as adopted by the normal practice in the industry, may be in person or by proxy and entitled to vote EU, give a true and fair view of the affected by a change of control following a has one vote for every ordinary share held.
assets, liabilities, financial position and takeover bid.
None of these agreements There are no shares in issue which carry profit or loss of the Company and the are, however, considered to be of material special rights with regard to control of the undertakings included in the significance.
There are no agreements Company.
There are no restrictions on the consolidation taken as a whole: and between the Company and its directors or transfer of ordinary shares in the Company employees providing for compensation for the Business Review includes a fair other than those that may be imposed by loss of office of employment that occurs review of the development and law or regulation from time to time.
performance of the business and the The Companys Articles of Association may position of the Company and the Annual General Meeting be amended by special resolution at a undertakings included in the The Annual General Meeting will be held general meeting of the shareholders.
consolidation taken as a whole, and on 4 May 2010.
The Notice of Annual Directors are appointed by ordinary that the Risk Management report General Meeting circulated with this resolution at a general meeting of the includes a description of the principal Report and Accounts contains a full shareholders.
The Board can appoint a risks and uncertainties that they face.
explanation of the business to be Director but anyone so appointed must be conducted at that meeting.
This includes a Financial instruments elected by an ordinary resolution at the resolution to re-appoint BDO LLP as the next general meeting.
Any Director who Information about the Groups management Companys Auditors.
has held office for more than three years of financial risk can be found in notes 28 to since their last appointment must offer 31 of the consolidated financial statements.
themselves for re-election at the next By order of the Board Capital management annual general meeting.
The Group manages its capital to ensure The Directors have power to manage Nicholas Rowe that entities in the Group will be able to the Companys business subject to the Secretary continue as going concerns while provision of the Companys Articles of 3 March 2010 maximising the return to stakeholders Association, law and applicable regulations.
through the optimisation of the debt and The Directors have power to issue and buy equity balance.
The capital structure of the back shares in the Company pursuant to Group consists of debt, which includes the the terms and limitations of resolutions borrowings disclosed in note 15 to the passed by shareholders at each annual consolidated financial statements, cash and general meeting of the Company.
cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 20 to 22.
Report and Accounts 2009 Report and Accounts 2009
