Board of directors Graham Mackay 59 Malcolm Wyman 62 Meyer Kahn 69 Geoffrey Bible 71 BSc Eng, BCom CA SA BA Law, MBA, DCom hc, SOE FCA Aust, ACMA Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Graham Mackay joined The South African Malcolm Wyman joined SAB Ltd in 1986, Meyer Kahn joined the group in 1966 and Geoffrey Bible joined the board in 2002 Breweries Limited SAB Ltd in 1978 and and joined the board as Group Corporate occupied executive positions in a number following completion of the Miller Brewing has held a number of senior positions in Finance Director in 1990.
He was appointed of the groups former retail interests before Company transaction.
He served as Chief the group, including Executive Chairman to the board of South African Breweries plc being appointed to the board of SAB Ltd in Executive Officer of Altria Group, Inc. from of the beer business in South Africa.
upon its listing on the London Stock Exchange 1981.
He was appointed Group Managing 1994 until April 2002 and as Chairman of in 1999.
Director in 1983 and Executive Chairman in the Altria board from January 1995 until He was appointed Group Managing Director 1990.
In 1997, he was seconded full-time August 2002, when he retired.
He also in 1997 and Chief Executive of South African He became Chief Financial Officer in to the South African Police Service as its served as Chairman of the board of Kraft Breweries plc upon its listing on the London 2001, with responsibility for the groups Chief Executive, serving for two and a half Foods Inc. from March 2001 until his Stock Exchange in 1999. finance operations, corporate finance years.
He was appointed Chairman of retirement in August 2002.
He is a member and development, and group strategy.
South African Breweries plc upon its listing of the board of Trian Acquisition 1 Corp.
He is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Prior to joining SAB Ltd, he was an on the London Stock Exchange in 1999.
Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Executive Director of UAL Merchant a director of Philip Morris International Inc. Bank, South Africa.
Among other awards, he holds an honorary doctorate in commerce from the University of Pretoria and was awarded The South African Police Star for Outstanding Service SOE in 2000.
Dambisa Moyo 40 Carlos Alejandro Prez Dvila 46 John Manzoni 49 Miles Morland 65 Ph.
D, MPA, MBA, BSc BA, MPhil BEng, MEng, MBA Dambisa Moyo joined the board in Carlos Prez joined the board in 2005, John Manzoni joined the board in 2004.
Miles Morland joined the board in 1999.
He He is President and Chief Executive Officer is founder and Chairman of two companies June 2009.
She is an economist and following completion of the Bavaria commentator on international aid strategies transaction.
He is a Managing Director at of Talisman Energy Inc.
Prior to joining investing in Africa, Blakeney Management Talisman in September 2007 he was and Development Partners International.
and economics, and worked at Goldman Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. and serves Sachs for eight years in the debt capital on the board and executive committee of Chief Executive of Refining and Marketing He is also Chairman of Indochina Capital of BP plc.
He joined BP in 1983 and was Vietnam Holdings, a director of The Dubai markets, hedge fund coverage and global Valorem S. A.
He is also a director of Caracol macro-economics teams.
Previously Television S. A. Comunican S. A. and the appointed to the BP plc board in January Group, Ukraine Opportunity Trust plc, 2003.
He is a member of the advisory SouthWest Energy BVI Ltd, and of various she worked at the World Bank in Queen Sofia Spanish Institute.
He was Washington D. C. previously an investment banker at Goldman board of the Stanford Graduate School companies investing in the emerging world.
of Business and the Accenture Energy Sachs & Co. S. G. Warburg & Co. and Violy, Dambisa is a Patron for Absolute Return Byorum & Partners.
for Kids ARK, a hedge fund supported childrens charity, and serves on the board of the Lundin for Africa Foundation.
She also serves on the board of Room to Read, an education charity.
42 Board of directors SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Executive committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Audit committee Dinyar Devitre 62 Liz Doherty 51 Robert Fellowes 67 John Manser 69 BA hons, MBA BSc hons, FCMA CBE, DL, FCA Dinyar Devitre joined the board in 2007 Liz Doherty joined the board in 2006.
She is Lord Fellowes joined the board in 1999.
John Manser joined the board in 2001. as a nominee of Altria Group, Inc.
He is Chief Financial Officer of Brambles Limited.
He is Chairman of Barclays Private Bank He is Chairman of Intermediate Capital a member of the board of Altria.
Between Prior to joining Brambles in December 2007 Barclays Wealth and was Private Secretary Group plc and Shaftesbury PLC and April 2002 and March 2008 he was Senior she was Group International Finance Director to the Queen from 1990 until 1999, having Deputy Chairman of Colliers CRE plc.
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Tesco PLC.
Before joining Tesco in 2001, joined the Royal Household in 1977 from He was previously Chairman of Hiscox of Altria and prior to his appointment to she held a number of commercial and a career in the London Money Market.
Investment Management Ltd, London Asia this position had held a number of senior strategic positions in Unilever PLC, including He is a trustee of the Rhodes Trust and Chinese Private Equity Fund Limited and management positions within the Altria Senior Vice President Finance Central the Mandela-Rhodes Foundation.
He is Robert Fleming Holdings Limited, a former group.
He is a director of Western Union & Eastern Europe, Financial Director also on the board of the British Library.
member of the Presidents Committee of Company and a special advisor to General Unilever Thai Holdings and Financial the British Banking Association, a Director Atlantic LLC.
He was a director of Kraft Director, Frigo, Espaa.
of the Securities and Investments Board Foods Inc. from 2002 until March 2007. between 1986 and 1993 and is a past He serves as a Trustee of the Asia Society Chairman of the London Investment and the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Banking Association.
is a director of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. Alejandro Santo Domingo Rob Pieterse 66 Cyril Ramaphosa 56 Dvila 32 Bproc LLD hc BA Alejandro Santo Domingo joined the board Rob Pieterse joined the board in 2008.
Cyril Ramaphosa joined the board of He is chairman of the supervisory boards SAB Ltd in 1997 and was appointed to in 2005, following completion of the Bavaria transaction.
He is a Managing Director at of Mercurius Groep B. V. and Royal Grolsch the board of South African Breweries plc N. V. He is a member of the supervisory upon its listing on the London Stock Quadrant Capital Advisors, Inc. and serves on the boards of Valorem S. A. Comunican boards of Essent N. V. and CSM N. V. Exchange in 1999.
He is Executive He serves on the boards of VEUO, the Chairman of Shanduka Group, Joint S. A. and Caracol Television S. A.
He is the treasurer of Aid for AIDS Charity and is also association of Dutch listed companies, Non-Executive Chairman of Mondi plc and of EuropeanIssuers.
and Mondi Limited and holds directorships a member of the board of the US-based DKMS Americas Foundation.
in Macsteel Global B. V. MTN Group Ltd, He spent 25 years at the multinational The Bidvest Group, Standard Bank and information services company, Wolters Alexander Forbes.
He also serves on the Kluwer N. V. where he was Chairman from board of the Commonwealth Business 2000 until 2003.
director of Mecom Group plc between November 2007 and January 2009.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Board of directors 43
