Operations review continued South Africa 28 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Enhancing the appeal of mainstream beers Key focus areas With the strong growth of the Fortify the foundation, and South African economy in recent strengthen productivity edge years, the main increase in beer Engage the competitor sales has been in the premium Ensure key brands resonate segment.
Now, with recession Shape superior routes to market biting and consumer spending Ensure societal leadership tightening, the trend has slowed.
With price-conscious consumers buying fewer premium beers less often, the segment is no longer growing as rapidly as it was.
At the same time, mainstream consumers are becoming more sophisticated and demanding in terms of image, packaging and Financial summary presentation.
They want value, but not at the expense of quality Beverages or appearance.
1 Group revenue US$m EBITA US$m EBITA margin % Mainstream brands are the heartland of SABMillers South 3,955 2009 764 2009 19.3 2009 African business and SAB is 4,446 2008 1,026 2008 23.1 2008 well placed to respond.
As part 11% 26% of its continuing investment in the sector, it recently introduced 430 million new-style returnable 2 Sales volumes hl 000 bottles for its mainstream beers.
The redesigned bottle has Lager Soft drinks Other alcoholic beverages improved the image of the 25,949 2009 17,303 2009 1,325 2009 mainstream category and lends itself to new labelling technology 26,526 2008 16,657 2008 1,176 2008 which enhances the appeal of 2% 4% 13% individual brands.
The move has made the mainstream sector even more relevant and compelling to Hotels and Gaming South African consumers.
3 4 5 Group revenue US$m EBITA US$m EBITA margin % Revpar US$ The main beneficiary has been SABs Hansa Pilsener.
With its 348 2009 122 2009 34.9 2009 67.4 2009 message of affordable aspiration, 396 2008 141 2008 35.6 2008 76.1 2008 the brand has proved a natural 12% 14% 11% choice for consumers looking for premium image at mainstream 1 Including share of associates.
Its success follows an 2 Volume figures have been restated for the prior period following the revision of the groups volume definitions.
Further details are provided in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 32. earlier boost to its sales when 3 Share of associate.
4 In 2009 before exceptional costs of US$7 million in relation to the groups share of fair value mark to market losses on financial a rival, premium brand was instruments 2008: US$nil.
unavailable in South Africa for 5 Revenue per available room.
a number of months and Hansa was seen as a near-equivalent.
Beverages Lager volumes were down 2% on the prior Supported by the well established Consumer spending in South Africa was year, affected by a decline in both premium hampered by high interest rates and high fuel beer and flavoured alcoholic beverage FAB Castle Lager, Hansa is the growth prices in the first half of the year and by the volumes.
Fourth quarter sales volumes were leader within SABs mainstream effects of the global economic downturn in further impacted by provincial legislation segment.
Growth in gross domestic against the informal retail liquor trade in the product slowed to 3.1% in the 2008 calendar Western Cape, and by the timing of Easter.
year from 5.1% in 2007, and fell 1.8% in the The mainstream category, which accounts quarter to December 2008.
Retail sales for for the bulk of total lager sales, remained the 11 months to February 2009 were down in growth despite robust price increases, 0.7% year on year, while sales for the month supported by strong performances by of February were down 4.5% year on year.
both Hansa Pilsener and Castle Lager.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 29 Operations review: South Africa continued The mainstream category in South Africa, which accounts for the bulk of total lager sales, remained in growth, supported by strong performances by both Hansa Pilsener and Castle Lager.
As anticipated, the loss of the Amstel brand apple ale, Blakes and Doyle, expanding our has reduced our share of the premium premium and FAB portfolios.
We continued to 430 million category and we are revitalising our focus on generating excitement and appeal premium brand portfolio to deliver growth around existing brand equities, introducing in this competitive environment.
Cost new pack designs for Brutal Fruit, upgrading Number of restyled returnable efficiency savings are being made to reinvest pack designs for Miller Genuine Draft, in marketing and sales execution initiatives.
introducing new artwork for Castle Milk bottles introduced in South Africa Stout and aligning Hansa Marzen Gold Soft drinks volumes grew by 4% with strong and Hansa Pilsener packaging.
growth in sparkling soft drinks outweighing a marginal decline in alternative beverages Appletiser volumes were in line with prior 8% following the discontinuation of a number year but the loss of the Just Juice packaging of low margin fruit cordial brands.
Market contract put margins under pressure.
share gains were achieved following the Increase in marketing expenditure launch of Coca-Cola Zero and flavoured Distell volumes continued to show strong in South Africa Sparletta brands.
growth which, combined with robust pricing and cost efficiency, helped to offset Revenue grew by 11% on a constant increased commodity costs to deliver currency basis, with two price increases in improved profitability.
each of the beer and soft drinks businesses.
Despite the price increases, EBITA declined Hotels and Gaming by 8% on a constant currency basis due to SABMiller is a 49% shareholder of the increased commodity and energy costs and Tsogo Sun group.
The weakening of the rand against key trading currencies compounded The gaming industry in South Africa the impact of underlying commodity price continued to grow, albeit at a slower rate than increases.
Distribution costs increased only in prior years, reflecting reduced consumer marginally due to distribution efficiencies disposable income and the entry of new which offset higher fuel costs.
Tsogo Sun acquired a 23% expenditure grew by 8% as we intensified share of Gold Reef Resorts Limited, a listed our marketing and sales initiatives for operator with seven casino licences in competitive reasons.
Increased container South Africa, in October 2008. depreciation resulted from the companys replacement of the mainstream bottle pool, The South African hotel industry has been which commenced in the prior year and negatively impacted by the economic was completed in September 2008.
EBITA downturn, particularly in the second half was also adversely impacted by fair value of the year, with a decline in demand in the movements on procurement-related foreign key corporate and leisure markets.
growth of 10% was achieved in constant currency as room rate increases offset the Two premium lager brands, Grolsch and decline in occupancy.
However, due to the Dreher, were launched in the first half of strengthening of the dollar compared to the the year, together with a new premium dry rand, Revpar declined 11% in US dollars.
30 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Grolsch fills a crucial gap SABMillers acquisition of Grolsch in 2008 opened opportunities around the world, not least in the South African international premium market.
The SAB portfolio already included Miller Genuine Draft from the USA, Pilsner Urquell the original pilsner from Plzen and Peroni Nastro Azzurro, with its associations of Italian style.
However, the business needed a strong, northern European brand to match the credentials of its main rival.
Grolsch neatly filled the gap.
Launched in South Africa in June 2008, Grolsch has been well received by trade and consumers alike.
It has proved a powerful addition to SABs portfolio of international premium brands, with potential to grow both the sector and SABs share within it.
Although recession has slowed the expansion of South Africas premium sector in recent months, the market continues to develop and Grolsch remains an important contributor.
Longer term, its a key element in SABs strategy of building the premium portfolio for such time as the economy recovers and the trend to premium beers resumes its momentum.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 31
