Operations review continued Africa and Asia 24 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Affordability at both ends of the brand portfolio Key focus areas Africa Key focus areas Asia Many of the beer brands sold Spur growth in beer and soft drinks Further build market leadership in Africa are made from imported with expanded brand portfolios across in China and enhance profitability raw materials.
With prices inflated a wider price range Continue to drive Snow, the largest by import costs and government Further develop sales and distribution beer brand in China tariffs, such brands can be to enhance our outlet presence and Pursue market liberalisation in India expensive and out of reach for extend our geographic coverage to achieve a reasonable trading a large percentage of African Optimally manage our capital environment for the beer industry consumers.
investment programme to enable Develop our operations in Vietnam continuing growth and Australia as well as our broader Recognising an opportunity, Mitigate high imported input regional presence SABMiller is looking to develop costs through innovation and affordable products brewed local supply chains from local African crops.
The sorghum-based Eagle brand previously launched in Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania Financial summary and Swaziland is now available in some markets in smaller bottles 1 Group revenue US$m EBITA US$m EBITA margin % and draught form to make it easier on the pocket.
In addition, the 4,132 2009 642 2009 15.5 2009 business is carrying out trials to 3,367 2008 568 2008 16.9 2008 see what other locally available 23% 13% raw materials might be used in the brewing process for both new and existing brands.
2 Sales volumes hl 000 Affordable products will Lager Lager organic Soft drinks enable consumers to move from unregulated home brews 54,440 2009 53,423 2009 8,352 2009 to commercial beers produced to 51,256 2008 51,256 2008 8,305 2008 international brewing standards.
6% 4% 1% As the sector becomes more formal and regulated, governments Soft drinks organic Other alcoholic beverages will benefit from higher excise payments.
Importantly, the strategy 8,336 2009 4,079 2009 will provide economic opportunities 7,411 2008 3,210 2008 for local producers of sorghum, 12% 27% barley, maize and cassava and so benefit the community.
Some 1 Including share of associates and joint ventures.
12,000 local farmers already 2 Volume figures have been restated for the prior period following the revision of the groups volume definitions.
Further details are provided in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 32. supply raw materials for SABMillers affordable beers in Africa and this Africa continued to perform strongly with acquired water businesses in Ghana and number is expected to reach organic total volume growth of 10% for the Nigeria as well as a brewery in Nigeria to 44,000 by 2012. year.
Asia organic total volumes grew in the support our full beverage portfolio strategy The quest for affordability also second half of the year ending 4% ahead for Africa.
Markets across the region extends to the premium end of the prior year with strong fourth quarter continued to grow in line with the broader of SABMillers African portfolio.
performances in both China and India.
economies, however, momentum slowed Given that many mainstream Organic, constant currency revenue grew in the fourth quarter in many countries.
consumers would like to buy 26% in Africa reflecting price increases a premium beer more often generally in line with inflation, and 26% in Tanzania achieved lager volume growth of Asia largely as a result of positive pricing 4% despite inconsistent energy supply and but find imported international and sales mix trends in China.
Combined infrastructure challenges which continue brands beyond their means, EBITA grew 16% on an organic, constant to constrain growth.
A decline in volumes the business is introducing local currency basis.
in the fourth quarter followed the economic premium brands to meet the downturn and price increases which were need.
Recent launches include Africa necessitated by substantial increases in Ndovu in Tanzania, Maluti in Our strategy of broadening the brand commodity costs.
The launch of Eagle in a Lesotho and, in December portfolio with premium and affordable lager 300ml returnable bottle at an affordable price 2008, a premium variant of the offerings helped us to achieve organic lager led to strong growth for the brand.
Progress highly regarded Laurentina in volume growth of 5%.
A refocused approach continued on our new brewery in the south Mozambique.
These moves to other beverage offerings delivered strong where production is expected to commence are another step in SABMillers soft drinks and traditional beer growth of in September 2009.
This will free up capacity African strategy to ensure not 12% and 25% respectively on an organic in our Dar es Salaam brewery, while allowing just good distribution and wide basis.
In the latter part of the year, we us to reduce distribution costs in the availability, but an ever greater southern region.
degree of choice at both ends of the brand portfolio.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 25 Operations review: Africa and Asia continued Confidence spurs further investment Contrary to many peoples perception, Africas economic growth since 2002 has been above the world average.
Recent years have brought greater political stability, better governance and further investment in infrastructure while urbanisation and rising incomes have lifted many people from subsistence living and fuelled consumer demand.
These trends have contributed to almost 20% compound annual growth in SABMillers profits in Africa since 2002.
Having invested heavily in the continent in the past, the business continues to demonstrate its confidence in Africas future.
Following a US$37 million investment in Juba, the new Southern Sudan Beverages brewery began operating inApril 2009.
As a result, Sudan is now producing beer for the first time in 25 years.
Three more greenfield breweries are under construction in Angola, Mozambique and Tanzania.
Representing a total investment of over US$160 million and due to open later this year, these new plants will increase capacity, create jobs, bring production closer to consumers and contribute further to Africas economic development.
Mozambiques lager volumes were slightly in North Luanda which will allow us to its position as one of the largest beer brands ahead of prior year despite a fourth quarter compete in the fast growing beer market in the world by volume.
The south of the country was in this part of the country.
Commissioning was achieved on the back of improved affected by reduced tourism while improved of this brewery is set for late 2009. pricing and brand mix.
infrastructure led to healthy economic growth in the north, supporting our decision An excise reduction to incentivise local India had strong lager growth in the fourth to open a new brewery in Nampula which farming led to good growth in the economy quarter to end the year 5% ahead of the will be commissioned in the second half segment in Uganda, albeit at slightly prior year, despite continued regulatory of our current financial year.
Productivity lower margins, while Ghanas growth was issues especially in the key market of improvements were achieved following temporarily constrained by capacity.
The Haywards 5000 the expansion of the Maputo and Beira volumes were resilient, despite a challenging brand gained further market share during breweries.
Marketing spend was increased economy, assisted by an excise reduction.
the year, while Fosters made significant behind the launch of Laurentina Premium, market share gains.
A new brand, Indus a local premium brand which has achieved Traditional beer continued a year of strong Pride, was launched successfully in good initial volumes.
Average price increases growth with volumes up 25% on the back Rajasthan, exceeding initial expectations, of 10% were below inflation but positive mix of good agricultural harvests in Zambia and a national roll out is planned.
helped deliver revenue per hl growth of 13%.
and Malawi together with intensified focus across the continent including product Our joint venture in Australia had another Botswana lager and traditional beer volumes launches in additional markets, greater successful year with good growth in the slowed dramatically after the implementation product affordability and innovative supply premium segment.
Overall organic volume of a 30% levy on alcoholic beverages chain initiatives.
grew by more than 60% with strong introduced on 1 November 2008.
Since the performances by Miller Chill and Bluetongue.
levy, lager volumes have reduced significantly Castel continued to deliver solid resulting in a decline of 8% in the full year.
performance with organic lager volumes We took full ownership of our associate in This reduction has been compounded by growing 9% and organic soft drinks Vietnam during March 2009 which will allow the downturn of an economy dependent on volumes growing 11% on the back of strong us to expand the brand portfolio thereby diamonds and consequently heavily affected performances in Angola, Cameroon and growing our market share.
The growth in Angola follows the pack continued to show good growth and commissioning of new breweries in Luanda now represents 25% of volumes.
Soft drinks and Cabinda, while in Cameroon growth had strong growth of 19% driven by focused followed the acquisition of a competitor marketing and good weather.
Castel has also acquired new businesses in Guinea, Nigeria and Gambia.
Angolas economy remained strong with GDP growth of 18% for the year.
Soft drinks Asia volumes had strong growth of 17%.
Port China lager volumes benefited from a strong congestion is resulting in a long supply chain final quarter ending the year 6% ahead of the and logistics difficulties, constraining our prior year.
Organic growth of 4% was below ability to meet demand.
Our new 2 million hl recent levels, adversely affected by the soft drinks facility in Luanda is expected to Sichuan earthquake disaster in May 2008, commence production in the second half but volumes showed increasing resilience of 2009 which will alleviate the reliance on through the course of the year as consumer imported product.
In the south, our lager acceptance of new pricing levels improved.
business continued to perform well with Snow brand renovation during the year, volume growth of 31% following investment emphasising its local provenance, saw brand in new capacity.
In addition, we have sales in excess of 60 million hl for the first commenced construction of a brewery time, 19% ahead of the prior year, cementing 26 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In Africa, traditional beer continued to grow strongly, reflecting an intensified focus across the continent with product launches in more markets and innovative supply chain initiatives.
Celebrating Indias passions Since SABMiller entered India in 2000, the business has made rapid progress and is now the countrys second largest brewer with a market share of 34%.
Of the two main beer segments, it enjoys a narrow leadership in strong beer but trails some way behind the market leader in the mild segment.
In looking to challenge the countrys leading mild beer, the business decided to supplement its current offering through the creation and launch of a new mild beer with strong Indian origin and heritage.
In mapping out the market landscape, the business identified a gap for a product that would celebrate Indias pride and passions.
After further research into name, labelling and brand concept, it came up with Indus Pride a 100% malt beer which reflects and celebrates two of Indias greatest passions, cricket and Bollywood.
Indus Pride was trialled in Rajasthan and launched there in October 2008.
By March 2009 Indus Pride had achieved a volume performance of 25% above target, and an exit market share of 20% of the mainstream mild segment.
Following this strong start, the brand was launched in a second test market, Karnataka, in March 2009 and the plan is to take the brand nationwide in 2010.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 27
