Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report to shareholders, In August 2008 the company announced that its Colombian together with the audited annual financial statements for the year subsidiary Bavaria S. A. had agreed to dispose of its Agua Brisa ended 31 March 2009. bottled water business and assets to Coca-Cola FEMSA and The Coca-Cola Company for a consideration of US$92 million.
The sale, Principal activities and business review which was subject to approval by the Colombian competition SABMiller plc is a holding company which has brewing and authorities and other customary pre-closing conditions, was beverage interests across six continents.
The principal subsidiaries, completed in February 2009. associates and joint ventures of the company are listed in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
The principal activities of the In December 2008 the group acquired an interest in Pabod group are the manufacture, distribution and sale of beverages.
Breweries in Nigeria and in the following month agreed to acquire an interest in Voltic International Inc. Voltic has water businesses in The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to produce Ghana and Nigeria.
In accordance with an agreement with Castel, a fair review of the business of the group including a description of Castel subsequently acquired an interest in the holding company the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, its development and of Pabod and Voltic and at year end the group held a 57% effective performance during the year and the position of the group at the interest in Pabod and an 80% effective interest in Voltic.
The business review, including a review of the development and performance of the group during the financial year, In January 2009 the company announced that its Romanian its position at the end of the year, likely future developments in the subsidiary, Ursus Breweries Ursus, had acquired a 71% interest business of the group, key performance indicators and a description in the Romanian brewer Bere Azuga.
The acquisition was subject of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, is set out on to approval by the Romanian competition authorities and this was pages 4 to 37 of this annual report.
Other key performance indicators granted after 31 March 2009.
In accordance with local securities and information relating to environmental matters, employee matters laws, Ursus will launch a mandatory public tender offer for the and social and community issues required by the business review are shares it does not own as soon as regulatory approval is given.
set out in the sustainable development review on pages 38 to 41 of Also in January 2009 the company announced the establishment this annual report.
of a guaranteed medium-term note programme by SABMiller plc Significant acquisitions, disposals, financing transactions, and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Racetrack Per S. A.
The maximum investments and material developments during the year.
aggregate principal amount of notes that may be outstanding at In May 2008 the company announced that it had agreed to acquire any time under the programme is PEN 1,500 million approximately a 99.84% interest in the Ukrainian brewer CJSC Sarmat.
The US$500 million although no notes have yet been issued under the acquisition was subject to approval by the Ukrainian competition programme.
Should any notes be issued in the future, the company authorities and completed in July 2008. expects they will be admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the Professional Securities Also in May 2008 the company announced that it had reached an Market of the London Stock Exchange.
agreement in principle with Anheuser-Busch AB to acquire the US import rights for the Grolsch brand which AB had acquired prior to In February 2009 China Resources Snow Breweries Limited the companys acquisition of Grolsch.
This agreement was concluded CR Snow, an associate of the company and a subsidiary of China in July 2008, with the rights being transferred to the groups US joint Resources Enterprise, Limited, announced that it had agreed to venture, MillerCoors, with effect from 1 August 2008. acquire three breweries in the Anhui, Liaoning and Zhejiang provinces of China in three separate transactions.
CR Snow acquired the In June 2008 the company announced that, subject to customary respective brewing assets of Anqing Tianzhu Beer Company Limited, pre-closing conditions, it had agreed to acquire the Russian brewer Liaoning Songlin Brewery Group Company Limited and Zhejiang Luck LLC Vladpivo.
Those conditions were satisfied the same month.
Beer Company Limited through three newly-formed subsidiaries in On 1 July 2008 MillerCoors began operating as a combined entity.
which it owns 80%, 85% and 100% equity interests respectively.
The company and Molson Coors Brewing Company had signed a In March 2009 CR Snow announced that it had agreed to acquire the definitive agreement to combine the US and Puerto Rico businesses brewing assets of Shandong Hupo Brewery through the formation of of their subsidiaries, Miller and Coors, in December 2007.
CR Snow will initially own a 90% equity interest, of the transaction was subject to obtaining regulatory clearance and and plans to acquire the additional 10% within three years of the this was obtained in June 2008 after the US Department of Justice formation of the joint venture.
SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic Also in March 2009 the company announced that it had acquired interest.
Voting interests are shared equally.
the residual 50% interest in SABMiller Vietnam JV Company Limited held by its joint venture partner Vietnam Dairy Products Joint Also in July 2008 the company announced the completion of Stock Company.
The notes were issued in two tranches, US$550 million of 5.5 year notes with a coupon of 5.7% In the same month the company announced that subsidiaries of and US$700 million of 10 year notes with a coupon of 6.5%.
The net Bavaria S. A. had completed the sale of Bebidas y Aguas Gaseosa proceeds of the offering were used to repay existing indebtedness.
Occidente SRL, its Pepsi bottling operations in Bolivia, to subsidiaries In the same month the company announced the establishment of a of Quilmes Industrial S. A. Quinsa, a subsidiary of Anheuser-Busch US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme to allow the InBev SA NV, for a total consideration of US$27 million.
group to further diversify its sources of funding in the future.
No notes Post balance sheet events have been issued under the programme at this time.
In May 2009 the company acquired the outstanding 28.1% minority interest in its Polish subsidiary, Kompania Piwowarska S. A. from Kulczyk Holding S. A. Kulczyk in exchange for 60 million new SABMiller shares.
Following completion of the transaction on 29 May 2009, Kulczyk held approximately 3.82% of the enlarged issued ordinary share capital of SABMiller.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report 45 Directors report continued Dividends All of the members of the board are individually and collectively aware An interim dividend of 16 US cents per share was paid to shareholders of their responsibilities to the companys stakeholders.
Statements of on 5 December 2008, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009. our application of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance are Details of the final dividend proposed by the board for the year ended set out in the corporate governance report on pages 49 to 56 and the 31 March 2009 are set out below: remuneration report on pages 57 to 65.
Share capital Amount of final dividend During the year, the issued ordinary share capital of the company proposed by the board: 42 US cents per share increased from 1,505,779,276 shares of 10 US cents each to Total proposed dividend for the 1,585,366,969 shares of 10 US cents each.
2,219,355 new ordinary year ended 31 March 2009: 58 US cents per share shares were issued to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme, the If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on SABMiller plc Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the either section of the register at 21 August 2009 in the following way: SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme and the SABMiller plc International Employee Share Scheme.
Dividend payable on: 28 August 2009 In connection with the unwinding of the Safari structure during the Currency of payment: South African rands to year, as referred to in last years directors report and notice of annual shareholders on the RSA general meeting, 77,368,338 non-voting convertible participating section of the register, shares of 10 US cents each in the capital of the company were converted into ordinary shares and were acquired by the company US dollars to shareholders on 26 February 2009, and are now held as treasury shares within shown as having an address the meaning of Section 162A 3 of the Companies Act 1985. in the USA and recorded on the UK section of the register In addition, the company has 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each in unless mandated otherwise, issue.
No non-voting convertible participating shares, convertible participating shares or deferred shares were issued during the year.
Pounds sterling to all other shareholders on the UK section Purchase of own shares of the register.
At the last annual general meeting, shareholder authority was obtained for the company to purchase its own shares up to a Ex-dividend dates: 17 August 2009 for shares traded maximum of 10% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on on the JSE Limited, South Africa.
This authority is due to expire at the earlier of the 19 August 2009 for shares traded next annual general meeting or 31 October 2009, and remains on the London Stock Exchange exercisable provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase LSE.
The notice of annual general meeting proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing the The rate of exchange for conversion from US dollars will be calculated authority allowing the company to purchase its own shares.
on 30 July 2009 and published on the RNS of the LSE and the SENS of the JSE Limited on 31 July 2009.
Shares in the company were purchased during the year by the trustee of the companys employee benefit trust, details of which Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements discloses dividends are provided in the remuneration report.
Additionally, as noted above, waived.
in connection with the unwinding of the Safari structure the company acquired 77,368,338 shares which it now holds as treasury shares.
Directors While the total consideration paid for these shares amounted to The names and biographical details of the current directors are US$1,176,875,166, the whole amount of the consideration was paid set out on pages 42 and 43.
With the exception of Mr Pieterse between group companies.
The company did not repurchase any who was appointed to the board on 15 May 2008 and Dr Moyo further shares during the year for the purpose of cancellation, holding who was appointed to the board on 1 June 2009 all directors in treasury or for any other purpose.
Both Lord Renwick and Ms Ramos also served on the board during the period.
Lord Renwick served Annual general meeting as a director of the company until his retirement on 31 July 2008.
The companys annual general meeting for 2009 will be held at the Ms Ramos was appointed to the board on 15 May 2008 but, in InterContinental London Park Lane, One Hamilton Place, London, consequence of her accepting an appointment as Group Chief W1V 7QY, UK at 11:00 am on Friday 31 July 2009.
Notice of this Executive of ABSA Group Limited in South Africa, was unable to meeting may be obtained from the companys website.
continue to act as a director of the company and resigned with Donations effect from 26 February 2009.
Details of the interests in shares During the year the group invested US$34.8 million in corporate and or options of the directors who held office during the period social investment programmes, of which US$8,865,000 represented and any persons connected to such directors are set out in the charitable donations.
Of this amount US$994,302 were charitable remuneration report on pages 57 to 65. donations made by the company and Miller Brands UK Limited Corporate governance for the benefit of various causes, both in the UK and overseas, The directors are committed to maintaining high standards of comprising donations in respect of community development, health corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to discharging and education, the environment and other causes.
This included a their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives to provide the donation of US$84,448 made to the Downs Syndrome Association, right leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to a charity registered in England and Wales during her time in office produce and sustain the delivery of value to all of the companys Ms Ramos waived all board and committee fees due to her and shareholders.
The board applies integrity, principles of good asked that a donation equivalent to those fees be made by the governance and accountability throughout its activities and each company to this charity.
director brings independence of character and judgement to the role.
46 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information It remains the groups policy that political donations are only made by Research and development exception, and where permitted by local laws, and must be consistent To ensure improved overall operational effectiveness, the group with building multi-party democracy.
places considerable emphasis on research and development in its global technical activities.
This enables us to develop new In March 2009 the board announced, following due consideration, that products, packaging, processes and manufacturing technologies.
the group would provide funding to political parties in the 2009 South Good progress was made in the groups on-going research in the African elections.
These contributions amounted to US$0.6 million key areas of raw materials, brewing, flavour stability, packaging R5 million and were distributed across six parties.
The group made materials and energy and water saving.
Our total investment contributions at the same level in the run up to the 1999 and 2004 in research and development in the year under review was elections and has not made any other political donations in South US$7 million 2008: US$9 million.
Africa outside of the national election cycle.
It is the boards belief that great strides have been made in recent years to foster a vibrant, Payment of suppliers multi-party democracy in South Africa and SABMiller is proud to The groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with the have made a contribution to that achievement.
terms of payment agreed in advance.
At the year end, the amount owed by the group to trade creditors was equivalent to 36.3 days Miller Brewing Company made contributions to individual candidates 2008: 32.8 days of purchases from suppliers.
for political office and to party committees in the USA, where permitted by applicable campaign finance laws.
Political donations in the USA Overseas branches are an accepted part of the local socio-political environment.
These The company does not have any branches registered overseas.
contributions amounted to US$245,312 in aggregate.
Going concern and audit The groups subsidiary in El Salvador made donations totalling Page 66 details the directors responsibilities for preparing the US$160,000 to a number of parties participating in the legislative consolidated financial statements.
As set out in that statement and presidential elections.
Additionally, a donation of soft drinks the directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern.
to the value of US$4,822 was made to support volunteers of the So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information various political parties during the election process.
In Honduras of which the groups auditors are unaware, and each director has the groups subsidiary donated soft drinks to the value of US$3,579 taken all the steps necessary that he or she ought to have taken as a to participants in the primary elections for the benefit of volunteers director in order to make himself or herself aware of the relevant audit assisting during the elections.
information and to establish that the groups auditors are aware of The board has reaffirmed the groups policy not to make donations that information.
to political organisations in the European Union.
 LLP have expressed their willingness Employment, environmental and social policies to continue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing their The aim of the group is to be the employer of choice in each country re-appointment and authorising the board to set their remuneration in which it operates.
In order to achieve this, each operating company will be submitted to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
designs employment policies which attract, retain and motivate the Directors indemnities highest quality of staff.
The company has granted rolling indemnities to the directors, The group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities from recruitment and selection, through training and development, which they may incur in the course of acting as directors of the appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Within the constraints of company or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
The Company local law, it is our policy to ensure that everyone is treated equally, Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary have also been granted regardless of gender, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, race, disability, indemnities, on similar terms, covering their roles as Company marital status, sexual orientation, religion or trade union affiliation.
Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary respectively of the In the event of employees becoming disabled, efforts are made to company and as directors or as company secretary of one or more allow them to continue in their role, or a suitable alternative role, of the companys subsidiaries.
The board believes that it is in the best through making reasonable adjustments.
interests of the group to attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced directors and officers by offering competitive All employees of all SABMiller group companies must adhere to terms of engagement, including the granting of such indemnities.
a refreshed code of business conduct and ethics.
This sets out our core principles of business conduct and ethics, including being The indemnities were granted at different times according to the law fair and ethical in all our dealings and treating people with dignity in force at the time and where relevant are categorised as qualifying and respect.
The group is committed to the 10 principles of the third-party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 309B of the United Nations Global Compact.
This framework sets out universally Companies Act 1985 and Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the They will continue in force for the benefit of directors and officers for environment and anti-corruption.
The companys website sets as long as they remain in their positions.
out these principles and the groups progress towards them.
Substantial shareholdings The group is committed to regular communication and consultation Details of notifications received by the company in accordance with employees and encourages employee involvement in the with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 1 June 2009 and performance of the company.
During the year the group launched of persons with significant direct or indirect holdings known to the a quarterly global newsletter.
The newsletter is distributed to all of company at year end are set out in the ordinary shareholding the groups businesses to help inform employees about what is analyses on page 157 of this annual report.
happening in our businesses globally.
Further information is provided Financial instruments to employees at a regional country level by way of newsletters and Information on the financial risk management objectives and policies electronic communication.
Certain employees throughout the group of the group and details of the groups exposure to price risk, credit are eligible to participate in the groups share incentive plans.
risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are contained in Note 22 to the The sustainable development review on pages 38 to 41 gives an consolidated financial statements.
overview of the progress on the groups 10 environmental and social sustainable development priorities.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report 47 Directors report continued Other Companies Act disclosures In addition, subject to the Regulations, and each Act and statutory The company does not have any contractual or other arrangements instrument concerning and affecting companies for the time being that individually are essential to the business of the company.
in force, and in exceptional circumstances approved by the FSA, the board may refuse to register a transfer of a share including a Following the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK fully paid share if the refusal does not disturb the market in the law, the directors report is required to disclose certain additional companys shares.
information, irrespective of whether the company is involved in a takeover situation.
Pursuant to the companys code for securities transactions, directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities require, and The structure of the companys share capital, including the rights employees may in certain circumstances require, approval to deal and obligations attaching to each class of share and the percentage in the companys shares.
of the share capital that each class of share comprises, is set out in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
There are no No shareholder shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, securities of the company that grant the holder special control rights.
be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise At year end the companys employee benefit trust held 5,746,387 any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders ordinary shares in the company.
By agreement with the company, the meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to trustees do not exercise the voting rights attached to these shares.
the company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, The directors are responsible for the management of the business no shareholder shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served of the company and may exercise all the powers of the company with a notice after failing to provide the company with information subject to the companys memorandum and articles of association concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under and relevant statutes.
Powers of the directors relating to the issuing Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Restrictions on the rights and buying back of shares are set out in the articles of association.
of the holders of convertible shares and deferred shares are set out Such powers are subject to renewal by the shareholders of the in Note 25. company each year at the annual general meeting.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to The companys articles of association give the board of directors corporate members by a corporate representative.
The deadline power to appoint directors.
The articles of association may be for delivering proxy forms is 48 hours before the time for holding amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
appointed by the board are required to submit themselves for The company is also required to disclose any significant agreements election by the shareholders at the next annual general meeting of that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following the company.
Additionally, as disclosed in the corporate governance a takeover bid.
The company has a number of facility agreements report on pages 49 to 56, Altria Group, Inc Altria and BevCo Ltd with banks which contain provisions giving rights to the banks upon BevCo have power under their respective relationship agreements a change of control of the company.
A change of control of the with the company to nominate directors for appointment to the board company would also give The Coca-Cola Company certain rights and certain committees.
These relationship agreements also regulate under its bottling agreements with various subsidiaries of the processes applicable in relation to the acquisition or disposal of company.
Similarly, in certain circumstances a change of control shares by Altria and BevCo.
may give China Resources Enterprise, Limited the ability to exercise The companys articles of association allow directors, in their absolute certain rights under a shareholder agreement in relation to the discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated companys associate CR Snow.
A change of control may also give form which is not fully paid or the transfer of a share in certificated the Molson Coors Brewing Company the ability to exercise certain form on which the company has a lien.
If that share has been rights under the MillerCoors operating agreement.
admitted to the Official List, the board may not refuse to register the The company does not have any agreements with any director transfer if this would prevent dealings in the companys shares from or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or taking place on an open and proper basis.
They may also refuse to employment resulting from a takeover.
register a transfer of a share in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the address at Listing Rules disclosures: related party transaction which the register of the company is held or at such other place as On 13 May 2009, the company agreed to acquire the outstanding the directors may appoint, and except in the case of a transfer by a 28.1% minority interest in the companys Polish subsidiary, Kompania financial institution where a certificate has not been issued in respect Piwowarska S. A. from Kulczyk Holding S. A. in exchange for of the share is accompanied by the certificate for the share to which 60 million new ordinary shares in the company.
The acquisition was it relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably completed on 29 May 2009, and Kulczyk Holding S. A. now holds require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer, is in 3.82% of the companys enlarged issued ordinary share capital respect of only one class of share and is in favour of not more than excluding treasury shares.
Based upon SABMillers closing share four transferees jointly.
price on Wednesday, 13 May 2009, of 12.20 per share and an exchange rate of 1 US$1.52, the value of the consideration for the Transfers of shares in uncertificated form must be made in accordance transaction was US$1,110 million.
Kulczyk Holding S. A. was a related with and subject to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations the party of SABMiller because it is a member of a group of companies Regulations, the facilities and requirements of the relevant CREST connected to Dr Jan Kulczyk, who at the time the transaction was system and such arrangements as the board may determine in relation entered into was a non-executive director and member of the to the transfer of certificated shares subject to the Regulations.
supervisory board of Kompania Piwowarska S. A.
Transfers of shares listed on the JSE Limited JSE in uncertificated form must be made in accordance with, and subject to, the Securities Services Act 2004, the Rules and Directives of the JSE and STRATE John Davidson Ltd. Certificated shares may be transferred prior to dematerialisation, General Counsel and Group Company Secretary but share certificates must be dematerialised prior to trading in the For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc STRATE environment.
1 June 2009 48 Directors report SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
