Operations review continued Europe 16 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Miller Brands bucks the market trend Key focus areas In the past year, total UK beer Drive our full brand portfolios in sales have fallen by 6% with growth segments in key markets premium lager brands seeing Further develop our positions in a 5% decline.
But while other high value export markets brewers are struggling to Continue to innovate in product, maintain market share, Miller packaging and dispense systems Brands UK has seen good Build strong brand equities through results across its portfolio.
innovative 360 degree marketing programmes Believing that international Leverage our scale premium brands can still command growth, even in a mature market, the business has chosen to position Peroni Nastro Azzurro and Pilsner Urquell at the top of the UK market and Financial summary to back them with exciting and distinctive marketing.
The 1 2 Group revenue US$m EBITA US$m EBITA margin % strategy is working.
Both brands are bucking the market trend 6,145 2009 944 2009 15.4 2009 and the business as a whole 5,248 2008 952 2008 18.1 2008 has increased volumes by 20% 17% 1% in the course of the year.
The best performer has been 3 Peroni Nastro Azzurro which Sales volumes hl 000 recorded an increase of almost Lager Lager organic 40% in sales volume.
With a carefully nurtured brand image 47,237 2009 43,912 2009 firmly linked to Italian style, 43,826 2008 43,826 2008 Peroni Nastro Azzurro is appealing 8% 0% to a broad range of consumers, many of them not traditional lager 1 Including share of associates.
This image is reinforced 2 In 2009 before net exceptional costs of US$452 million 2008: US$nil being the impairment of non-current assets of US$392 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$51 million and the unwind of fair value adjustments on inventory following the acquisition of through marketing activities Grolsch of US$9 million.
such as Miller Brands recent 3 Volume figures have been restated for the prior period following the revision of the groups volume definitions.
Further details are provided in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 32. collaboration with fashion designer, Antonio Berardi.
In Europe, reported lager volumes grew Impairment charges of US$392 million To maintain its exclusivity, 8% while organic lager volumes were level have been taken of which US$42 million Peroni Nastro Azzurro Draught with the prior year.
Economic conditions relates to our investment in Ukraine and is available in only 3,500 carefully deteriorated sharply in most markets in the US$350 million relates to our Grolsch selected outlets.
Bottled Peroni second half which put pressure on consumer acquisition in the Netherlands.
Nastro Azzurro, the number one spending and constrained beer volume premium packaged lager in UK growth.
Our competitive strength allowed In Poland, our organic volumes were up 3% restaurants, is also doing well, us to gain volume share in Poland, Romania in a market which levelled off as consumer not just through on-premise and the UK with strong momentum behind disposable income was impacted by the outlets but through off-premise key brands.
In the Czech Republic, we economic downturn and increasing retailers as well.
maintained our leadership position and unemployment.
Market share gains were focused on growing value in this mature driven by strong sales execution, additional Pilsner Urquell the original pilsner market.
In Russia, poor summer weather fridge placement and trade promotional from Plzen increased its sales by and high distributor stocks adversely affected programmes around the Olympics and the over 20%.
As a brand, its two or volumes, although recent trends are positive.
Market three years behind Peroni Nastro share improved by 150 bps due to more Azzurro in its development and Organic constant currency revenue per focused sales and marketing investment.
Miller Brands, again, is focusing hectolitre grew 6% as we maintained Volumes of Tyskie and our premium brand draught sales on a few, selected, strong pricing in most markets.
Despite Lech were both up 4%, while Zubr grew premium outlets.
Its forthcoming this, significantly higher raw material and 2% and Redds and Peroni Nastro Azzurro sponsorship of the British Open distribution costs negatively impacted the showed double-digit growth.
A number of Golf Tournament will further EBITA margin.
Marketing expenditure was innovations were introduced during the year, enhance its reputation.
selectively reduced but fixed costs rose, including a complete renovation of Tyskies particularly in support of growth in Romania packaging and the introduction of new A third brand in the UK portfolio, and our new operations in Russia.
Reported sleek cans for non-alcoholic and flavoured Miller Genuine Draft, is also EBITA declined 1%, while on an organic, brands.
Revenue per hectolitre grew 6% showing growth, especially constant currency basis it declined 5%.
following three price increases during in Scotland where the brand Action has been taken to reduce the the year, helping to offset significant raw sponsors music venues in European cost base by restructuring material cost increases and a substantial Edinburgh and Glasgow.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 17 Operations review: Europe continued Timisoreana, local Romanian brand becomes national leader Since entering Romania in 1996, SABMiller has progressed by turning local brands into strong national brands.
An example is Timisoreana which, when acquired by Ursus Breweries in 2001, was concentrated in the west of Romania and making little headway against larger, national competitors.
In 2005, Ursus Breweries set itself the ambitious target of turning Timisoreana into the countrys best selling beer.
With competitors relying heavily on TV advertising, fun with friends imagery and discount offers in plastic bottles, Ursus Breweries went against the grain by avoiding discounts and focusing on Timisoreanas 300-year heritage.
The brand proposition the honest craftsman of beer was a deliberate appeal to traditional, unshowy Romanian values.
To support this distinctive positioning, the company has reinvented the medieval beer festival, developed theme pubs and sponsored the Romanian Football Cup which brings together both large and small teams.
The objective was achieved three years ahead of plan.
From sixth place in 2005, Timisoreana became market leader in January 2007 and remains the countrys fastest growing mainstream brand.
In the Czech Republic we continued to and increased PET and can availability.
focus on value leadership with our premiumBetter distribution and merchandising in 18% biased portfolio, accepting a volume share the off-premise channel also contributed decline of 60 bps in a market which declined to our strong results.
The economic slowdown was reflected has continued to be the key growth driver, Volume growth in Romania against in fewer tourists in Prague, lower on-premise consolidating its leading market position consumption, and some down-trading.
Ursus, Peroni market growth of 3% Our premium brands Pilsner Urquell, Nastro Azzurro and Redds all performed Frisco, Master and the non-alcoholic Birell well in the premium segment, and benefited all performed well.
In mainstream, Kozel from extended distribution, tailored service was up 8%, becoming the countrys number packages and increased refrigeration 39% two national brand, while volume decline in coverage.
Pricing above inflation was Gambrinus was halted in the final quarter by achieved and revenue per hectolitre the launch of the higher priced 11 degree increased 8%.
The recent acquisition of Growth of Peroni Nastro Azzurro variant, which already leads in the semithe Azuga brand will underpin our portfolio in the UK premium category.
Revenue per hectolitre in the economy segment.
growth of 5% together with efficiency in marketing investment and productivity in In Russia, the economy entered into overheads offset raw material cost increases.
recession in quarter four which, together with poor weather during summer 2008, resulted In Romania, strong volume growth of in beer industry production volumes declining 18% was achieved within market growth 2%, with the Moscow region down by 6%.
of 3%, but both the economy and the beer SABMiller Russia sales to retailers STRs market slowed noticeably in the second were level with the prior year, while organic half.
We increased our market share by sales to wholesalers STWs were 7% down 390 bps for the year.
Our improved reflecting distributor fide-stocking, mainly performance is due to our strong brand during the third quarter.
Despite the portfolio which covers all price segments, downturn, our Kozel and Redds brands 18 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strong brands and superior operational execution in Europe allowed us to gain market share by volume in Poland, Romania and the UK.
We also maintained our market leadership in the Czech Republic and focused on growing value.
showed good growth, driven by product and In Italy, as elsewhere in Western Europe, pack innovations, although Zolotaya Bochka economic conditions have worsened and A new niche for a non-alcoholic lager volume fell.
Sales of Miller Genuine Draft the beer market declined 4%, with a sharp Czech beer drinkers have always prided declined during the year but showed value decline in the fourth quarter.
In particular, themselves on recognising a quality beer, which is why Radegast Birell, with its share growth in the last quarter, following the on-premise channel has suffered from genuine beer flavour, retains its position as the launch of Miller Midnight.
Industry pricing down trading and an accelerating consumer the countrys favourite non-alcoholic lager.
was robust and our revenue per hectolitre switch to off trade.
Against this background, was up 12%.
We have increased sales staff Birra Peronis branded volumes declined The introduction of stringent drink-drive laws in 2006 triggered a rapid expansion by 10% in preparation for supply from our 3% although market share was held for of the non-alcoholic market.
While Birell new Ulyanovsk brewery in the summer.
Sales of brand Peroni were in line naturally benefited, the change also In June 2008, we acquired LLC Vladpivo in with prior year, assisted by national sports attracted a flood of competitors.
To retain the Russian far-east region and are nearing sponsorships including Euro 2008, on-pack its near two-thirds share of the market completion of the integration process.
In promotions, a new 50cl can and limited segment, the Czech business took a new July 2008, CJSC Sarmat in Ukraine was edition packs.
Prices increased on average look at how Birell could be made to stand acquired and quality upgrades and brand by 9% in November 2008 but due to down out from the crowd.
trading, revenue per hectolitre was only up The answer was to exploit the products 3%.
The Bari brewery has returned to full unique flavour and to position the brand In the Netherlands, the beer industry operation after a major fire in July 2008. not as a second best to alcoholic beers but has had to contend with a number of new as a quality beverage in its own right.
These include a 30% excise In Hungary, Slovakia and the Canaries, subsequent marketing campaign linked the increase, a public area smoking ban, alcohol economic conditions are severe and the brand to occasions and activities drinking advertising restrictions and a weak economic beer markets are in decline.
We held market at work and sports such as cycling, for example that would have been impossible environment with low consumer confidence.
share in Hungary and retained our leadership for an alcoholic product.
The beer market declined 4% with the position in the Canaries.
In this By claiming this particular niche, Birell context, Grolsch branded volumes were In the United Kingdom, despite a beer has not only maintained its lead against 23 competing brands, but is helping the down 4% and market share remained in market decline of 6% and an on-premise business to extract maximum benefit from line with prior year.
decline of 10%, our lager volumes grew a non-alcoholic market which has been 20%, with Peroni Nastro Azzurro growth of growing at over 40% a year.
Pilsner Urquell performed well in export territories with double digit growth in the UK and Germany.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Operations review 19
