Executive committee The executive committee excom is appointed by the Chief Executive.
It comprises the Chief Financial Officer, divisional managing directors and directors of group functions.
Its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to him by the board.
In that context, excom co-ordinates brand and operational execution and delivers strategic plans and budgets for the boards consideration.
It also ensures that regular financial reports are presented to the board, that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the group.
Norman Adami 54 Mark Bowman 42 Alan Clark 49 Sue Clark 45 John Davidson 50 BBusSc hons, MBA BCom, MBA MA, DLitt et Phil BSc hons, MBA MA, BCL Oxon Managing Director and Managing Director, Managing Director, Corporate Affairs Director, General Counsel and Chairman, SAB Ltd SABMiller Africa SABMiller Europe SABMiller plc Group Company Secretary, SABMiller plc Norman Adami was reappointed Mark Bowman was appointed Dr Clark was appointed Managing Sue Clark was appointed John Davidson joined the group Managing Director and Chairman Managing Director of SABMiller Director, SABMiller Europe in Corporate Affairs Director, as General Counsel and Group of The South African Breweries Africa in October 2007.
He joined SAB Ltd in 1990 SABMiller plc in 2003.
Prior to Company Secretary in 2006.
Limited SAB Ltd in October SABMillers beer division in 1993 as Training and Development this, she held a number of senior Before joining the group, he spent 2008.
He first joined SAB Ltd and has held various senior Manager.
He has since held a roles in UK companies, including his entire legal career at Lovells, in 1979 and has held a number positions in the group.
These number of senior positions in Director of Corporate Affairs, a leading international law firm, of senior positions in the group.
include Managing Director of the group, including Marketing Railtrack Group from 2000 to where he had been a partner These include Regional Director, SABMillers Polish subsidiary Director, SAB Ltd, Managing 2003 and Director of Corporate since 1991.
He has worked on Operations Director, Managing Kompania Piwowarska S. A.
Director, ABI and Chairman, Affairs, Scottish Power plc from numerous projects for SABMiller Director and Chairman, SAB Ltd, Managing Director of Amalgamated Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd. 1996 to 2000. since Lovells was first appointed President and Chief Executive Beverage Industries Ltd ABI now Before joining the group, he as the groups principal UK legal Officer, Miller Brewing Company the Soft Drinks Division of SAB practised as a clinical psychologist adviser in 1998, including the and President and Chief Executive Ltd and Chairman of Appletiser.
and lectured in psychology at London listing in 1999, the Officer, SABMiller Americas.
Vista University in South Africa.
Miller, Peroni and Bavaria Group transactions, and various bond and equity financings.
Nick Fell 55 Tony van Kralingen 51 Ari Mervis 45 Barry Smith 59 BA hons BA hons BCom BSc, MBA Marketing Director, Director: Supply Chain Managing Director, President, SABMiller plc & Human Resources, SABMiller Asia SABMiller Latin America SABMiller plc Nick Fell was appointed Marketing Tony van Kralingen was appointed Ari Mervis was appointed Barry Smith was appointed Director, SABMiller plc in 2006.
Director: Supply Chain & Human Managing Director of SABMiller President, SABMiller Latin Prior to this, he worked for Resources for the SABMiller Asia in October 2007.
He joined America in 2007 and prior to Cadbury Schweppes Plc, as group in October 2008.
He joined ABI in 1989 and has held this he was President, SABMiller President, Global Commercial SAB Ltd in 1982 and has held a various senior positions in sales, South America from 2005.
Strategy and also as Director number of senior positions in the marketing, finance and general He joined SAB Ltd in 1984 of Marketing, Cadbury Trebor group.
He has been and has held a number of senior Bassett.
He previously worked Director and Marketing Director, Managing Director of Swaziland positions in the group.
These for Diageo plc for 15 years in a SAB Ltd, Chairman & Chief Bottling Company and Appletiser include Marketing Director, number of senior roles including Executive Officer, Plzensk as well as Managing Director of SAB Ltd, Managing Director, Global Brands Director, Johnnie Prazdroj a. s. and, most recently, SABMiller operations in Russia Kompania Piwowarska S. A. and Walker, and Group Marketing Chairman and Managing Director: and Australia.
Senior Vice President, Market Director, Guinness Brewing.
He is accountable for Development and Strategy, the Global Technical function Miller Brewing Company.
and Chairman of the Global Sourcing Council.
44 Executive committee SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009
