The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 40 Directors report For the year ended 30 September 2009 The directors present their report and the audited financial Research and development statements for the year ended 30 September 2009.
During the year, the Group invested 174.6m 2008: 139.7m in research and development.
This has resulted in the release of Principal activities a number of new and updated products and features as referred The Groups principal activities during the year continued to to in the Business review on pages 6 to 37. be the development, distribution and support of business management software and related products and services Charitable contributions and political for medium-sized and smaller businesses.
donations During the year, within the UK, charitable contributions totalling Business review 91,000 were made, which included 30,000 to The Tyne and The Group achieved a profit before taxation of 267.4m on Wear Community Foundation, 12,500 to The Community revenue of 1,439.3m.
Foundation for Greater Manchester, 12,500 to The Berkshire Community Foundation, and a total of 36,000 in smaller The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review contributions to numerous charities.
The rest of the Group made of the Groups business and a description of the principal risks charitable contributions totalling 208,000.
No political donations and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the were made in the year.
requirements of the Business review is provided in the sections of this Annual Report headed Performance overview, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Financial review, Principal Post balance sheet event risks and uncertainties, Regional reviews and Corporate On 30 October 2009 the Group disposed of Sage Pro-Concept Responsibility on pages 6 to 37, all of which are incorporated S. A. for 6.5m.
into this report by reference.
The Business review does not contain any information about Directors and their interests persons with whom the Company has contractual or other A list of directors, their interests in the ordinary share capital of arrangements which are essential to the business of the the Company and details of their options over the ordinary share Company as, in the directors view, there are no such capital of the Company are given in the Remuneration report arrangements.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract Disclaimer for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide information to time during the year.
the members of the Company.
This Annual Report has been As at the date of this report, indemnities which are qualifying prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a third party indemnity provisions under the Companies Act 2006 body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors and are in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume the directors of the Company and the former directors of the responsibility to any other person to whom this document is Company who held office during the year ended 30 September shown or into whose hands it may come and any such 2009, to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report articles of association, in respect of all liabilities incurred in contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the connection with the performance of their duties as a director operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
of the Company or its subsidiaries.
Copies of these indemnities By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future are available for review at the registered office of the Company.
events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking Employment policy statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking applications for employment made by disabled persons, having statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
The policy as a profit forecast.
includes, where practicable, the continued employment of those who may become disabled during their employment and the provision of training and career development and promotion, Results and dividends where appropriate.
The Group has continued its policy of The results for the year and the amount transferred to reserves employee involvement by making information available to are set out on page 61.
Dividends paid and proposed are set out employees on matters of concern to them.
Many employees are on page 75.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.93p per stakeholders in the business through participation in share option share 2008: 4.78p per share taking the proposed full year schemes and a long-term performance share plan.
Further details dividend to 7.43p per share 2008: 7.21p per share.
of employment policies are given on pages 34 and 35.
Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 On a poll, every member who is present in person or by Creditor payment policy proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does is the holder.
not operate a standard code in respect of payments to suppliers.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or Subsidiary operating companies are responsible for agreeing the class meeting in respect of any shares held by him or her if any terms and conditions under which business transactions with their call or other sum then payable by him or her in respect of that suppliers are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is the share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Groups policy to ensure that suppliers are aware of those terms and that payments to suppliers are made promptly in accordance Deadlines for voting rights with these terms.
Creditor days for the Group have been Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect calculated at 46 days 2008: 40 days.
The Company has no of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting trade creditors 2008: nil.
to be held on 2 March 2010 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings Dividends and distributions At 17 December 2009, the Company had been notified, in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: paid to the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount Direct Indirect Total recommended by the Board.
Name shares % shares % shares % Invesco plc 130,287,263 9.92 130,287,263 9.92 The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the Baillie opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be Gifford & Co 58,488,202 4.46 58,488,202 4.46 apportioned and paid pro rata according to the amounts paid up Legal & on the shares.
General Group plc 52,217,411 3.97 52,217,411 3.97 Liquidation If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may, with the Future developments authority of a special resolution of the Company and any other authority required by the Statutes as defined in the The Groups future developments are described in the Business Current Articles : review on pages 6 to 37.
Divide among the members in specie the whole or any part Additional information for shareholders of the assets of the Company: or Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into Vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such UK law, the following description provides the required information trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with the like for shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this authority, shall think fit.
This summary is based on the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles, but please note that it is Transfer of shares proposed that the Company will adopt new articles of association Subject to the Current Articles, any member may transfer all or the New Articles with effect from the conclusion of the any of his or her certificated shares by an instrument of transfer Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 2 March 2010, brief details in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may of which are set out in the circular containing the Notice of approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to Annual General Meeting.
register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has a lien.
The Share capital Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided unless the instrument of transfer is: i left at the office, or at such into ordinary shares of 1p each.
other place as the Board may decide, for registration: and ii accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred Rights and obligations attaching to shares and such other evidence if any as the Board may reasonably Voting require to prove the title of the intending transferor or his or her In a general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of right to transfer the shares.
the Current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in the Company of which The Board may permit any class of shares in the Company to be there are none : held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Current Articles, title to uncertificated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant On a show of hands, a qualifying person being an individual system and may revoke any such permission.
Registration of a who is a member of the Company, a person authorised to transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused where act as the representative of a corporation or a person permitted by the Statutes as defined in the Current Articles.
appointed as a proxy of a member shall have one vote: and Governance The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42 Directors report Repurchase of shares Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last Annual The trustee of the Sage Group plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT General Meeting held on 3 March 2009 to buy-back up to has agreed not to vote any shares held in the EBT at any general 130,955,755 ordinary shares, which remains outstanding until the meeting.
If any offer is made to shareholders to acquire their conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2010. shares the trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 1p offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to and the maximum price payable is the higher of 5% above the subsisting awards, but will have regard to the interests of the average of the mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the award holders and will have power to consult them to obtain Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily their views on the offer.
Subject to the above the trustee may Official List for the five business days immediately before the take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
purchase is made and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case Significant agreements exclusive of expenses.
The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the Amendment of the Companys articles of association event of a change of control of the Company: Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may Under a US$264,000,000 multi-currency revolving credit be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act facility agreement dated 18 January 2006 between, amongst 2006 by way of special resolution.
others, the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority lenders so require Appointment and replacement of directors and after having consulted with the Company in good faith Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in for not less than 30 days following the change of control, number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary the facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all outstanding holds office only until the next following Annual General Meeting loans, together with accrued interest, and all other amounts and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board accrued under the finance documents immediately due and may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold payable: and employment or executive office for such period subject to the Under a 650,000,000 multi-currency revolving credit facility Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine agreement dated 4 August 2006 between, amongst others, and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
the Company and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as facility agent, on a change of control, if the majority lenders so require and At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any director after having consulted with the Company in good faith for in office who a has been appointed by the Board since the not less than 20 days following the change of control, the previous Annual General Meeting or b at the start of business facility agent shall, by not less than 10 business days notice on the date which is 30 clear days prior to the date of the notice to the Company, cancel the facility and declare all outstanding convening the Annual General Meeting had held office for more loans, together with the accrued interest, and all other than 30 months since he or she was elected or last re-elected amounts accrued under the finance documents immediately shall in either case retire from office but shall be eligible for due and payable.
election or re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution or by ordinary resolution of which special notice Under the terms of both credit facility agreements, a change has been given remove and the Board by unanimous decision of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in may remove any director before the expiration of his term of concert gains control of the Company.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she resigns By Order of the Board ii he or she is or may be suffering from a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings M J Robinson of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves Secretary that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt 17 December 2009 or compounds with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant to the Current Articles.
Powers of the directors The business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys memorandum of association, the Current Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
