T Th he S e Sa ag ge G e Gr ro ou up p p pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 00 09 9 20 20 20 Over 2,000 customers per month are taking the opportunity to rate us on the quality of the experience we provide.
Meet one of our customers: Antony Comyns, e-commerce manager at Hawes & Curtis discusses the benefits to his business.
com Bu Bus siine fines ss s r re ev vie iew w The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Regional reviews 21 Performance UK & Ireland Total UK revenues declined by 2% to 242.2m 2008: 248.0m.
Organic Including: United Kingdom | Republic of Ireland revenue declined by 3%, with organic subscription revenues growing at 5%, CEO: Paul Stobart while organic software and softwarerelated services revenues contracted by 19%.
Sage Pay formerly Protx delivered strong growth of 42% benefiting from EBITA Revenue growth in online purchasing, and 6% 2% Practice Solutions for accountants grew 84.3m 242.2m by 8% with a number of new product 35% margin and service offerings.
Our accounting 2008 248.0m 2008 89.6m and ERP products including Sage 50 contracted 5% reflecting the difficult 2009 242.2m 2009 84.3m economic conditions.
The EBITA margin, including Subscription revenue Software and software-related restructuring charges of 6.9m incurred services revenue 6% in the year, was 35% 2008: 36%.
171.1m 18% Excluding restructuring charges, 71.1m it was 38%.
2008 161.7m 2008 86.3m 2009 171.1m 2009 71.1m Marketplace Supporting customers through Customers Contracts the downturn 31,000 3,000 Whilst our UK & Ireland customers 803,000 360,000 were affected by the challenging market conditions, we acted swiftly to realign 2008 772,000 2008 363,000 our business to support them during a significant change to UK taxation and 2009 803,000 2009 360,000 also by the provision of value added products and services.
Revenue by sector E A The strength of our decentralised business D A Accounting 50% structure and our local customer support B Industry-specic 11% was demonstrated in December 2008 when the UKs Value Added Tax VAT C HR and payroll 31% rate was decreased with less than a D CRM5% weeks notice.
This affected the majority E Payment processing 3% C of our customers, resulting in a surge in B call activity and the need to update our software swiftly.
However, we were able to leverage our resources to make these Sage Pay Sage in the community changes within the five working days During the year the infrastructure supporting The UK team has completed over 817 hours the Sage Pay gateway was strengthened further, of volunteer work in the local community on notice we were given as well as support and the Protx brand name was changed to Sage numerous projects to help charities and other our customers through this considerable Pay.
We have begun to win more mid-market community groups.
This year the UK business upheaval, further enhancing our position customers who have different needs to SME also provided a call centre to help process customers and we have had to make significant donations for a national charity day Comic Relief.
changes to the way in which we look after these Over 860 hours were worked by Sage volunteers accounts to meet their expectations.
We now on the phones through the evening and into have more than 25,000 Sage Pay customers the night to help collect donations on behalf and are committed to a broader payments of the charity.
strategy to improve our competitive position Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September within the next 12 months.
2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax and amortisation of intangible assets.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 22 Regional reviews The resilience of our support model This happens informally on a continual Customers and our focus on delivering services basis but also through formal employee We spend a great deal of time assessing that customers value, trust and rely forums and an annual survey, Engage, how well we look after our customers.
on was illustrated by the success of the which is designed to help measure An innovation this year was the Sage Accountants Club Priority Link employee engagement and job introduction of the Cust-o-Meter which ACPL.
This premium support service, satisfaction.
We received an 81% enables customers to give us real-time which provides accountants with instant response rate and the feedback will help feedback on their experience of working access to highly qualified technicians, us to identify what we are doing well, as with Sage.
On completion of a short has delivered exceptional service levels well as areas where we need to improve.
online questionnaire, a live feed updates resulting in revenue growth for ACPL and a widget installed on all Sage employees our Accountants Club of 21% over the year.
Innovation PCs so we can see how we are performing, can improve our software Encouraging innovation and creativity Longer term opportunities and services and if necessary put in is essential, especially in the tough place a recovery call if a customer is not Preparing our business for growth environment we have faced.
Over 2,000 customers per month innovations on the benefits they bring The Sage identity enjoys strong are taking the opportunity to rate us on to our customers.
Therefore, this year awareness in the SME market.
This the quality of the experience we provide.
we developed innovative software and year our marketing campaign included services designed to help customers sponsorship of a series of programmes Not only do we put significant resource more efficiently manage their business called The Krypton Factor on ITV, behind our telephone based support and their cash flow.
This included the a leading commercial television channel.
we handled over 1.8 million calls this year introduction of free, downloadable The combination of the programmes but also we have expanded our online invoicing software and free Planning for which attracted an audience of seven support offering with a knowledge base Business software which was launched million every week and the associated that now holds over 15,000 articles and as part of Lloyds TSB Commercials digital marketing have further increased receives approximately 20,000 visits per business banking package.
By keeping our identity at month.
This commitment to providing an the forefront of existing and potential outstanding service has resulted in more customers minds, particularly during than 87% of our customers being satisfied Corporate responsibility a period of economic downturn when or better with the service we offer.
Our aspiration is to become a truly many competitors are reducing their responsible business and embed this investment in this area, we are well placed ethos into all that we do, behaving People to benefit when the upturn comes.
ethically, considering the environment Our people are fundamental to our We have renewed our sponsorship of and the impact of our business success and despite the hard decisions The Krypton Factor for 2010 and intend operations.
In line with our Group-wide we had to make this year in terms of to continue to maintain a relevant and approach to corporate responsibility we redundancies we have continued to contemporary Sage identity.
focus on local initiatives and communities.
invest in our peoples development Providing products and services that are and skills, with approximately 450,000 Part of our commitment to communities easy to use is essential.
Therefore, our spent on training in the UK.
We also involves engaging with schools and focus will be on improving the user provide Educational Sponsorships and universities that are local to our offices.
experience rather than introducing more a training course website.
Development This year we have piloted an education features into our product portfolio.
We will programmes included Aspire, which scheme where we send our people as also increase the flexibility of our licensing was piloted during 2009 and is designed Education Business Partners out into and pricing, automate and simplify for new managers to Sage.
It completes schools to run events and share their deployment, ensuring products can be the trio of leadership programmes we skills and experiences alongside local downloaded from the web and further have had under development in the last Young Enterprise Schemes.
We have improve product integration.
Business advice few years: Aspire for new managers, also been working on a National ICT services will become more tightly embedded Enable for middle managers and Diploma to help people develop IT skills into products ensuring customers get Inspire for senior leaders.
maximum value from their SageCover Listening to our people is essential if Having measured our carbon footprint, support contracts.
SaaS and hybrid we are to understand truly how they feel we are now working with our teams of models will also become more prevalent about the organisation and are to help environmental volunteers to reduce our as we integrate desktop products with bring to life their ideas and initiatives.
impact and have launched a campaign web services.
Finally, we will take a far more called Its easy being green to improve open approach to our software, meaning recycling, cut waste and energy usage that we will make it much easier for third and provide options such as a cycle to parties to integrate their offerings with ours.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 There have been 100,000 downloads of Ciel Auto Entrepreneur Facile, a free accounts and invoicing solution.
Read more about our Mainland Europe business overleaf Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 24 Regional reviews Performance Mainland Europe Total revenues in Mainland Europe were flat at 520.5m 2008: 519.1m.
Including: Austria | Belgium | France including subsidiaries Organic revenue contracted 3%, in Brazil and Morocco | Germany | Poland reflecting the economic slowdown which Portugal | Spain | Switzerland became apparent in early calendar year CEO: 2009.
Subscription revenues continued Guy Berruyer to show good organic growth of 5%, while software and software-related services revenues contracted organically by 13% after very strong growth in the Revenue EBITA prior year.
at 6% 520.5m 107.3m Revenues in our French business 21% margin declined 2% organically in the year.
2008 519.1m 2008 114.1m The slowdown in France has had more impact on our vertical and CRM 2009 520.5m 2009 107.3m businesses than on our accounting and ERP businesses which still Subscription revenue Software and software-related showed overall growth in the year.
services revenue 8% Spain experienced total revenue growth 292.7m 8% of 6%, reflecting the contribution of 227.8m acquisitions in the current and prior 2008 271.5m 2008 247.6m year.
As anticipated, organic revenue contracted 7%, reflecting the 2009 292.7m 2009 227.8m exceptional growth of 25% in the prior year resulting from the stimulus of major Customers Contracts legislative change, and also the severe impact of the economic slowdown in 47,000 24,000 1,676,000 652,000 Spain in 2009.
German revenues were flat organically, with the benefit of increased renewal rates on support and 2008 1,629,000 2008 628,000 continued growth in payroll and entry- 2009 1,676,000 2009 652,000 level products offsetting general market weakness.
Our smaller businesses in Mainland Europe, including Switzerland, Revenue by sector C A Portugal and Poland declined 9% D A Accounting 78% overall in slowing market conditions.
B Industry-specic 18% B The EBITA margin, including restructuring C HR and payroll3% charges of 8.8m incurred in the D CRM1% year, was 21% 2008: 22%.
Excluding E Payment processing 0% restructuring charges, it was 22%.
Change in accounting standards Supporting North Portugal will be adopting the International African customers Accounting Standards IAS on 1 January 2010.
We have maintained our presence in North Africa, Capitalising on our experience of helping our supporting our customers in these markets when Spanish customers through similar legislative some competitors have been reducing their change, we are providing training, a helpdesk and investments.
We have at least one business software to support Portuguese SMEs through partner in every French speaking country in Africa this.
We also conducted two events to educate and conducted a road show which toured six businesses on the impact of the changes.
These countries, meeting 850 Sage customers.
were so oversubscribed we had to repeat them, with over 4,000 people attending in total.
Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 It has also led to us becoming a key Marketplace Innovation point of reference for French public Supporting customers through Sage Germany launched einfachLohn authorities and national institutions when the downturn simple payroll which is a new SaaS they need advice on issues affecting application for small businesses.
It is In Spain, Sages Small Business Division entrepreneurs.
In the first year 240,000 designed to help them easily manage hosted road shows across the country to people have become Auto Entrepreneurs their payroll processes and automatically give business partners more information and there have been 100,000 downloads generates the associated legal documents and assistance during the economic of our software.
for health insurance or tax purposes downturn.
The road shows took place Demand for online services will continue and submits them electronically to the in seven of the largest cities in Spain to grow and we are investing in this area, appropriate institutions.
and gave business partners practical for example through the development assistance by providing a toolkit for To create such an innovative new of web versions of our software and in them to help customers effectively with product, which took just nine months to Sage Germany the creation of a new the new challenges they face.
A series develop from scratch, we put together business unit, Sage Online Services, of initiatives to help business partners a small team of experts at our Leipzig to oversee the development of their through the economic crisis were office.
At their request the development SaaS offerings.
More of our customers also launched at the road shows.
took place in a separate unit outside are operating and expanding These included full adaptation of all the office.
This allowed the team to work internationally and, in response to this, Sage products to the new VAT Law in secret, testing various delivery and Sage ERP X3 was launched in Germany Reform in Spain, modifications to development methods with prospective and so it is now available in all our main the business partner programme and customers to ensure they created a European markets.
the implementation of various financing product that truly met their needs.
solutions for SMEs to enable easier To ensure robust security, a group of Customers purchase of Sage software.
external specialists and hackers were Listening to and acting on customer invited to simulate attacks on the live Sage Germany responded to customer feedback is important for all of our service, and they failed to break into needs by developing product bundle businesses.
In Germany, we launched the system.
A creative, online marketing promotions to address their particular an SME customer portal which provides campaign, including an online community local points such as cash management opportunities for our customers to give for potential users, supported the launch.
or staff cost planning as well as business feedback on our products and to rate Through the interaction with potential intelligence tools for those customers their business partner.
We also created customers during the development seeking to understand better their a tool to encourage dialogue with people phase we were able to generate 220 business relative to their competition.
who visit Sage Germanys website paying customers before the product a window pops up and invites them to a officially came to market.
Longer term opportunities website to enter an online chat about the Preparing our business for growth product or service they are interested in.
Corporate responsibility In France, Sage has a well established Corporate responsibility is driven locally relationship with APCE Agence pour la People to ensure it is meaningful to local creation dentreprises, the government communities.
Consequently we supported This year we have launched a wide body promoting business start-ups.
range of initiatives for our people a wide range of causes including, in In January 2009, new regulations were France, a donation of 40,000 to SOS across Europe.
In Poland, an intensive introduced incentivising people to create development programme was Village denfants, a collection for Secours their own jobs Auto Entrepreneurs Populaire Francais of clothes and other introduced to fast track young talent.
as a first step towards establishing new In France a new compensation and essential items together with donations businesses.
In response Sage launched of 6,900 and a strategy to help bring the benefits programme was published Ciel Auto Entrepreneur Facile, a free online, which includes a profit sharing business closer to local schools through accounts and invoicing solution events and participation in education.
plan, and in Germany more flexible dedicated to these aspiring business working options, including a sabbatical In Germany we provided financial support people.
Available as a download from to Die Tafel, an organisation that allocates programme, adaptation of working the APCE and Ciel websites this initiative hours for single parents and home food to homeless people in Frankfurt, reinforces our reputation as a trusted Mnchengladbach, Leipzig and Stuttgart working were instigated.
partner and generates long-term loyalty and to Delhi House, a centre for amongst these new customers.
Sage Poland sponsors and organises the national Accountant of the Year competition which is the most admired competition in the profession.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 26 26 To be successful, youve got to find ways to get the job done thats what I like about Sage MAS 200 : plain and simple, it gets the job done.
Odom Dexter Dexters Farm Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Regional reviews 27 Performance North America Total revenues in North America contracted 10% to 576.4m 2008: Including: Canada | United States 637.3m, reflecting the difficult economic conditions.
Organic revenue CEO: Sue Swenson contracted 8%.
Organic subscription revenues declined 2%, while organic software and software-related services revenues declined 23%.
Phase 1 of the changes to our Revenue EBITA North American business has been 10% 6% successfully completed with the new 576.4m 105.3m management team in place and an 18% margin appropriate reduction of the cost base.
2008 637.3m 2008 111.7m Operational improvements planned in Phase 2 are underway including 2009 576.4m 2009 105.3m reinvigoration of the channel, growth in premium support offers and several Subscription revenue Software and software-related product launches.
We are making good services revenue 4% progress in these areas and have seen 428.3m 23% increases in customer satisfaction scores 148.1m across our product lines.
2008 444.5m 2008 192.8m Sage North America is organised into 2009 428.3m 2009 148.1m three divisions, Sage Business Solutions Division SBS, Sage Payment Solutions Division and Sage Healthcare Customers Contracts Division.
SBS declined organically 11%, 123,000 the downturn particularly impacting our 3,118,000 601,000 mid-market accounting products, CRM products and Sage Timberline Office 2008 2,995,000 2008 601,000 which serves the construction industry.
2009 3,118,000 2009 601,000 Our entry-level accounting products Peachtree and Simply delivered resilient performances with continued Revenue by sector A growth of Peachtree Quantum.
E Non-Profit Solutions performed well in A Accounting 36% D the challenging market conditions and C B Industry-specic 43% grew modestly.
Sage Payment Solutions C HR and payroll4% Division saw a 15% increase in the D CRM7% number of merchants served but lower E Payment processing 10% B volume per merchant leading to a fall in revenue of 4%.
Payments revenue from cross-sell to our existing customers grew, from a small base, by over 100% Simply Accounting Intergy Practice Portal in the year and we regard this as a education programmes Our Intergy Practice Portal has equipped substantial future opportunity for Sage.
physician practices with patient self-serve We are seeding our future through our education features to accommodate their patients over the programmes across North America, where over web, particularly around new patient registration, 4,000 educational institutions use a Sage product appointment scheduling and prescription refill Peachtree or Simply Accounting to teach the requests.
New functionality was introduced principles of accounting.
in FY09 to provide patients with additional connectivity including the ability to complete a medical health history questionnaire and create and maintain a personal health record.
These innovations drive efficiencies, increase Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September patient safety, and support the migration 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and toward electronic health record management.
1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 28 Regional reviews Sage Healthcare Division has improved Longer term opportunities Customers its EBITA margin in the year to 17% Preparing our business for growth Our North American support 2008: 8%.
We have improved organisation is being reshaped to The US Healthcare market represents customer service levels and so reduced ensure we resolve customer requests a significant opportunity for growth.
customer losses in our Medical Manager quickly and accurately while also Our market-leading, industry-accredited base.
Although Healthcare revenues continuing to increase the calls we products position us well to leverage declined overall by 5%, revenue from the make to our customers.
A Customer future demand for EHR solutions.
Intergy product line, including Electronic Service Council has been created to This is primarily being driven by funding Health Records EHR capability, focus on making it easier for customers for adoption of EHR in the American grew by 13% to 71.2m.
Intergy, with to do business with Sage.
Tangible Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
its accredited, market-leading EHR improvements include the introduction We are actively pursuing opportunities solution, is well positioned to benefit of a live answer for our main toll free presented by the Act, concentrating from incentives within the American 800 number which gets customers to on building brand awareness, sales Recovery and Reinvestment Act for the right place the first time.
A training effectiveness and the development of the adoption of EHR.
programme called Voice of Sage has strategic relationships with purchasing The EBITA margin of Sage North been rolled-out to our customer support organisations and government agencies.
America, including restructuring charges staff, emphasising the key attributes that Within our Payment Solutions Division, of 10.7m incurred in the year, was 18% create a more satisfying and consistent we are actively diversifying our current 2008: 18%.
customer base, shifting from a high charges, it was 20%.
Over the year significant investment was concentration of merchants in the retail made in online customer communities.
space by selling merchant services to Marketplace This included the launch of SageSpark existing North America customers in Supporting customers through and MyBizCounts online communities other sectors.
As the economy recovers the downturn which provide business owners and it is likely we will see an increase in those considering starting a business Our North American customers felt the processing volumes from our merchant with tools, education and community full impact of the downturn in mid to base as consumer confidence rebounds.
Sage North America also late calendar year 2008.
To help them Emphasis is being placed on enhancing launched online communities for Sage through this we introduced various our premium support offerings to provide MAS ERP and Sage FAS Fixed Assets payment and financing packages, additional value to our customers while customers, adding to more than a free and low cost options as well as also growing average revenue per dozen other customer communities solutions to help them better manage customer.
Initiatives are underway to the company hosts.
increase the penetration of support contracts into our customer base and These included Peachtree by Sage People which launched a six month instalment expand our offerings to include other premium components such as business The passion, expertise and ideas of plan in December 2008.
Approximately our people are one of our key strengths.
20% of Peachtree upgrades are now advice and extended hours support.
We actively seek to leverage this, sold with this option.
MAS 90 introduced We have enhanced our channel partner for example through employee surveys a monthly payment option for service compensation structure to drive and and round table sessions hosted contracts which has benefited over reward growth, are leveraging detailed with employees from all levels of the 1,000 customers.
Simply Accounting partner segmentation models to identify organisation.
One such idea resulted by Sage rolled out a free downloadable better individual partner performance in the development of Ask Me, version of its entry-level product, and are seeking to expand the channel a programme designed to share Simply Accounting First Step.
So far in key areas to ensure appropriate knowledge more effectively and answer approximately 3,000 businesses have geographical coverage and capacity customer questions about different parts downloaded this version.
Further, to serve future demand.
of the business, as well as improve a MAS 90 credit card processing module the cross-selling of our solutions.
was given away for free to customers that also sign up for our merchant We have created a top down coaching services.
This cash flow bundle is programme to provide leaders with positioned to help customers collect a common approach to developing cash and 300 MAS 90 customers have employees.
This has been delivered taken advantage of it this year.
to more than 60 senior leaders and will be rolled out to different levels of Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange management over the coming year.
rates for the year ended 30 September 2009 of $1.54 1 and 1.14 1 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 29 Our North American leadership team has also been strengthened through the recruitment of a Chief Technology Officer, Chief Information Officer and Presidents of SBS and our Payment Solutions Division.
All bring industry expertise and experience to the business and will help ensure we are well positioned for the future.
Innovation The most significant innovations this year were the introduction of two free online services focused on helping new entrepreneurs.
The first is a community site, www.
com, where small businesses can tap into advice from experts and fellow entrepreneurs.
The site provides free access to invaluable tools and services to help businesses save time and money.
While on the site, members can also take advantage of fee-based services such as payment processing, live computer support and web page creation and promotion.
The second is Billing Boss, a free online invoicing tool designed for small businesses and freelancers to create, send and track invoices helping them get paid faster and better manage their cash flow.
Corporate responsibility Sage North America continues to be focused on its local community.
The business hosted an annual event celebrating Sage Day, where we partnered with other Sage locations around the world in support of charitable giving.
Sage North America centred their activity on a theme of Change One Thing.
During this event a food drive was conducted for Hunger Task Forces across the US and Canada with food donations totalling more than 17,000 pounds or 7,700 kilograms.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 30 Regional reviews Performance Rest of World Total and organic revenue in Rest of World grew by 1% to 100.2m 2008: Asia region includes: China | Dubai | India | Malaysia 99.6m.
Organic subscription revenues Saudi Arabia | Singapore showed strong growth of 14%, while CEO Asia: organic software and software-related Guy Berruyer left services revenues contracted by 8% Southern Hemisphere region includes: after excellent growth in the prior year.
Australia | Botswana | Namibia | South Africa CEO Southern Hemisphere: South Africa showed organic revenue Ivan Epstein right growth of 9%, with both accounting and payroll solutions performing Revenue EBITA well.
However, the impact of the 1% 8% recession began to be experienced in 100.2m 23.8m the fourth quarter of the financial year.
24% margin Australia declined 3% organically, 2008 99.6m 2008 25.8m reflecting the slowing economy, and our Asian businesses, with relatively less 2009 100.2m 2009 23.8m mature service offerings declined 15%.
The EBITA margin was 24% 2008: Subscription revenue Software and software-related 26%, reflecting the difficult market services revenue 14% conditions in Asia.
44.7m 8% 55.5m Marketplace 2008 39.4m 2008 60.2m Supporting customers through 2009 44.7m 2009 55.5m the downturn Our businesses in Rest of World cover Customers Contracts a diverse geographic region with differing 44,000 12,000 market conditions.
For example, in South 545,000 166,000 Africa there was a lag effect relative to the world economic recession, with the 2008 501,000 2008 154,000 financial problems in the Western world being felt later in 2009 and particularly 2009 545,000 2009 166,000 affecting the manufacturing and export sectors.
As with many of our businesses Revenue by sector A this presented us with the challenge of D maintaining service excellence whilst at A Accounting 41% the same time managing our costs.
B Industry-specic 10% C HR and payroll 45% We achieved this by concentrating on D CRM4% providing software and service solutions that give clear benefits to our customers.
E Payment processing 0% B C These ranged from SaaS applications, to instalment payment options and web-based training on issues directly Innovation Sage in the community affecting businesses, such as retrenchment processes.
Ltd, a Sage Accpac Softline, Sages business in South Africa, ERP customer in Singapore, provides heavy continues to sponsor the Thuthuka programme, machines and parts to 20 distributors in Asia, which is a scheme to support the advancement Australia and New Zealand.
When a machine of previously disadvantaged students at school breaks down it is important for Dresstas partners level.
The focus is on accountancy, maths and to provide a quick quote and information on science and 60 state schools took part in the availability.
Sage developed web and SMS programme this year.
applications that integrate with Sage Accpac ERP enabling direct enquiries online or via mobile phones, saving time and money in the ordering Foreign currency results for the prior year ended 30 September 2008 have been retranslated based on the average exchange and replacement of parts.
Business review The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 We also successfully introduced new Our Indian business is developing Innovation software into these markets, such as Sage Pocket Payroll to make it a mass Softline Pastel launched its first online, Sage ERP X3 in South Africa which was proposition at the entry-level as well as or SaaS, accounting system this year.
well received by customers due to its setting up strategic alliances with key Pastel My Business Online is aimed at combination of excellent functionality partners, such as systems integrators the SME market and was designed from and low total cost of ownership.
and consulting firms, to accelerate scratch specifically for business owners market penetration.
We will also In Malaysia we launched a variety who are starting out with very little continue to invest in infrastructure, of tools to help customers face the bookkeeping knowledge and require such as our telephone system in challenging times including end-to-end a basic system.
Accessible online, Singapore, to improve the experience electronic payment solutions designed it is a multi user system that is also our customers receive.
to save time and improve cash integrated to the iPhone, giving our management, credit assessment tools, customers mobility as well as allowing Customers mobile solutions and integrated CRM their accountant to log on, enabling and accounting systems.
them to work seamlessly with their Our local approach is well suited to meeting the needs of our diverse range client.
Innovations such as this demonstrate our commitment to of customer in this region.
We deliver Longer term opportunities locally developed solutions as well as delivering software and services that Preparing our business for growth utilise the latest technology where leveraging existing global solutions such The support, guidance and training we as our CRM products, Sage Accpac it adds clear value to our customers.
give is especially important in developing ERP and Sage ERP X3.
Whichever economies, such as South Africa, where solution our customers choose, they Corporate responsibility there is a continually evolving legislative are supported locally, either through Each of our businesses throughout landscape particularly in respect to our business partner network or directly payroll.
There is also a significant shift Rest of World selects its own charities via Sage.
and community projects to support.
occurring in this market from manual to We continually look for ways to share electronic tax submissions as well as a In South Africa we have prioritised expertise and experience around the educational initiatives and where move to monthly tax submissions which region.
This was demonstrated by our is being phased in over the next three possible target the field of IT education Singapore business which has replaced and training for young people.
This will place a strain on our its basic support plan with a tiered customers, who will increasingly look In Malaysia we support a local offering of Basic, Standard and Premium Cheshire Home, and have restored to Sage to support them through these contracts, reflecting the model we use in changes and provides us with an their dragon fruit farm which is a key some of our more mature markets.
This source of income for them, whilst our opportunity to enhance further our has provided our customers with greater position as an invaluable and trusted Australian employees raised money choice and has improved our response and donated blood to help victims partner of their business.
rate from less than 30% to above 70%.
Our investment in products and services continues and we will expand People our online offerings, introducing new products in 2010.
We will also make The Sage Leadership Standard has been embraced in the region.
further progress with Sage ERP X3 as our flagship upper mid-market Initiatives designed to embed this within the business ranged from product suite in both South Africa and Australia.
In the latter, we plan to expand formal discussions to informal cross team activities.
The Sage Guiding our payroll and HR solutions to meet the needs of larger organisations with more Principles are fundamental to how we conduct our business and we have complex requirements and introduce employee services portals to provide developed an award programme for demonstrating these in the workplace.
a more cost effective offering for our smaller customers.
We have introduced an online employee reward system, which also enables employees to contribute to charitable causes at the click of a button, long service awards and management development programmes.
