The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 04 Preparing our business for growth We are well positioned to take advantage of new opportunities and to exploit emerging trends in our marketplace.
Helping customers get Acquisitions Technology and the most out of Sage market trends During this downturn we have not completed any significant acquisitions.
Whilst businesses will remain Sage understands technology and However, acquisitions remain part of cautious in the short term, SMEs are understands SMEs.
We continually still willing to purchase software and we judge technological innovations assess the marketplace and maintain services where they deliver value.
by how much easier they make it for dialogue with various potential targets.
With continued investment and customers to run their businesses.
Of particular interest are higher growth innovative thinking we have significant We generate new ways to apply segments of the SME market and opportunities to provide this value technologies but do not get seduced by emerging markets.
Our strong cash to both new and existing customers.
them unless they have a clear customer flow and balance sheet mean we are Whether it is through the integration benefit.
Similarly, we anticipate and take well positioned to move quickly when of desktop software with online advantage of market trends, balancing opportunities are identified.
services, such as payment processing, the need to innovate without disrupting product upgrades as customers existing customers.
Key developments expand internationally or the continued include the progression of web and expansion of our support services, mobile technologies which are driving Sage will help grow our customers demand for more flexible solutions.
as well as our own businesses.
We are responding to this in a number of ways cloud and software as a We judge technological service offerings, mobile applications, innovations by how online customer communities, much easier they make integration of social media tools into our software to ensure our customers it for customers to run have the tools they need to prosper.
About Sage The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 05 05 Substantial funding set aside for adoption of electronic health records in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
Sage Healthcare The US Healthcare market represents a significant opportunity for growth.
Our market-leading, industry-accredited products, position us well to leverage future demand for electronic health record EHR solutions.
This is primarily being driven by funding for adoption of EHR in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
We are actively pursuing opportunities presented by the Act, concentrating on building brand awareness, sales effectiveness and the development of strategic relationships with purchasing organisations and government agencies.
