A proven business model and diversified customer base Our performance has been driven by the continued growth in subscription revenues.
This recurring revenue 65% accounts for 65% of our business Contribution to Group revenue and underpins our strong cash flow.
from recurring subscription revenues We operate across diverse sectors and broad regions, meaning we are not overly exposed to one particular industry or geographic market.
Moreover this positions us well to exploit opportunities These initiatives have for growth wherever they exist.
helped our customers through the downturn, maintained loyalty and enhanced our position as one of their trusted partners.
About Sage The Sage Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 03 Supporting customers through the downturn Our business model has proved robust, allowing us to take appropriate action to continue to thrive, whilst at the same time giving us the agility to invest in the software and services most needed by our customers.
Anticipating customer needs Investment for the future Experienced and responsible management Access to credit and managing cash The Sage brand has been refreshed flow have been critical issues for SMEs and rolled out across the Group to We made difficult but necessary over the past year.
Our local presence bring greater consistency and meaning decisions in the long-term interests of all meant we were uniquely placed to to what we offer locally: to help us of our stakeholders our shareholders, identify this at an early stage and quickly stand out from our competitors: and our people, our partners and our introduced a range of options tailored to raise our profile.
Our brand has been customers.
We successfully reduced to help customers wherever they are.
re-energised to reflect the commitment cost to offset the decline in revenues These included flexible payment and we have to our customers and that we as a consequence of the changing financing options such as quarterly aspire to a level of performance that is economic conditions, whilst at the same and monthly payment plans and free truly exceptional.
time maintaining prudent investment offerings, for example free downloadable ensuring we are well positioned for Our people are fundamental to our accounts and invoicing software, the future.
Additionally, we used the success and investment in them remains credit card processing modules and opportunity to restructure some parts of a priority.
Learning and development online invoicing services.
On top of this the business to improve our processes initiatives are run at all levels of the our businesses conducted road shows and become more streamlined and agile.
business, including our senior leadership.
to advise customers on business We actively seek the involvement of our legislation and launched online business people, for example through employee health check services.
These initiatives forums and engagement surveys.
have helped our customers through the downturn, maintained loyalty and enhanced our position as one of their trusted partners.
