1 Charles Jamieson Board of directors and advisers N Chairman Charles Jamieson is Salamanders Chairman and a founder of Salamander.
He holds an MBA from INSEAD and is a chartered accountant.
Prior to joining Salamander, he spent over 25 years with Premier Oil plc where he held a number of posts, including Finance Director and Chief Executive Officer.
He is currently also Chairman of Vostok Energy Ltd. 1 5 2 James Menzies Chief executive officer James Menzies is a founder of Salamander and its Chief Executive Officer.
He holds a BSc Hons in Geology and an MSc in Geophysics and 2 6 Planetary Physics.
After a period as a geophysicist at Schlumberger and ERC, he spent eleven years at LASMO plc holding a variety of posts including senior geophysicist in Vietnam, chief geophysicist in Indonesia, head of corporate development and head of strategy and corporate affairs.
He spent four years as a senior partner 3 7 at Lambert Energy Advisory prior to the founding of Salamander.
3 Mike Buck Chief operating officer Mike Buck is Salamanders Chief Operating Officer.
4 8 He holds a BSc Hons in Geology with Geophysics and an MSc in Petroleum Geology dist..
He spent twenty years with LASMO plc as a geophysicist in Indonesia and the UK Continental Shelf, chief geophysicist in Colombia, exploration manager in Vietnam and Exploration and general manager in Libya.
He then spent four years with ENI as 9 managing director in Tehran and managing director in Pakistan.
Overall he has 30 years of international exploration and production experience.
4 Nick Cooper Chief financial officer Nick Cooper is a founder of Salamander and its Chief Financial Officer.
He holds a BSc Hons in Geophysical Sciences, a PhD in Exploration Geophysics and an MBA from INSEAD.
He spent five years as a geophysicist at BG and Amoco and then was an upstream consultant for two years at Booz-Allen & Hamilton.
Prior to the founding of Salamander, he spent five years at Goldman Sachs, of which two years was spent in Singapore as a vice-president in corporate finance oil and gas.
26 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 5 Struan Robetson 8 John Crowle R A Senior Independent Non-executive Director #N R A Non-executive Director John Crowle is an Independent Non-executive Struan Robertson is Salamanders Senior Director of the Company and was educated at Independent Non-executive Director and was Durham University and Stanford University educated at the University of Natal and the Business School.
He spent more than 18 years at University of Cape Town, followed by Wharton Enterprise Oil where he held a number of posts, Business School.
He spent over 23 years at BP plc including Group Exploration Manager.
Between where he held a number of posts, including CEO 2002 and 2004 he was at Royal Dutch Shell as of Oil Trading International, Executive Chairman General Manager of New Ventures Organisation of BP Asia Pacific based in Singapore and Cluster, based in The Hague.
He is currently a Downstream Senior Vice President for Technology non-executive director of Rockhopper Exploration and Marketing, based in London.
Between 2000 plc and a member of the Durham University and 2004 he was Group Chief Executive of Wates Earth Sciences Advisory Board.
He currently holds non-executive directorships with International Power plc, 9 Michael Pavia Tomkins plc, Henderson TR Pacific Investment #A Non-executive Director Trust plc and Forth Ports plc.
Michael Pavia is an Independent Non-executive Director of the Company and was appointed to 6 Robert Cathery the Board in July 2007.
A chartered accountant #R N Non-executive Director and Chairman of the ICAEWs Audit Committee, Robert Cathery is an Independent Non-executive he has had a distinguished career in the energy Director of the Company and was a founder of sector, being finance director of UK independent Salamander.
He was a director of Vickers da Costa LASMO plc and then SEEBOARD plc now a and Schroders Securities as well as Head of subsidiary of EDF Energy plc.
He is currently a Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd.
He non-executive director of Thames Water Utilities also spent four years as Head of Oil & Gas at Ltd, Telecom Plus plc and Elizabeth Finn Care.
He is currently a non-executive Memberships of board committees director of Vostok Energy Ltd, SOCO International # Committee chairman plc, Central Asia Metals Ltd and Indigovision N Nomination Committee member Group plc.
R Remuneration Committee member A Audit Committee member 7 James Coleman Corporate advisers Non-executive Director Joint corporate brokers James Coleman is an Independent Non-executive Goldman Sachs and Oriel Securities Ltd Director of the Company.
He is a Canadian citizen and a senior partner and former Chairman Registered auditor of the international law firm of Macleod Dixon Deloitte LLP based in Calgary and was a board member Bankers of GFI Oil & Gas Corporation until that company HSBC Bank plc was acquired by Salamander on 17 March 2008.
He is currently a Non-executive Director of Legal advisers Anterra Energy Inc, and a non-executive Chairman Clifford Chance LLP of Sulliden Exploration, Inc, Energold Drilling, Inc Financial PR and Gold Reserve, Inc all publicly quoted Brunswick companies in Canada.
27 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009
