Directors report The Directors submit their report together with the audited Consolidated and Parent Company Financial Statements of Salamander Energy PLC for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Salamander Energy PLC is the holding company of the Group and its issued ordinary shares were admitted to listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange on 5 December 2006.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group which are intended to continue into the future are as an independent oil and gas exploration, development and production company focused on building a portfolio of assets in Asia.
The Group operates through a number of subsidiary and other undertakings, including Joint Venture Entities, which are set out in note 16 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
The Groups head office is in London with regional offices in Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Lao PDR and Vietnam.
Business review The Company is required by the Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to include a review of its business in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirement is contained in the following sections of the annual report and should be treated as forming part of this report by reference: Chairmans and Chief Executives review Operational review Financial review Risk management CSR Directors report Directors The Directors who served in office during the financial year were as follows: Charles Jamieson Chairman James Menzies Chief Executive Mike Buck Nick Cooper Struan Robertson Senior Independent Non-executive Director Michael Pavia John Crowle Robert Cathery Mike Sibson resigned on 15 May 2009 James Coleman The articles of association of the Company require that one-third of the board members or the number nearest to one-third retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM, which this year will be Charles Jamieson, Michael Pavia and James Coleman.
Results and dividends The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year-ended 31 December 2009 are as set out in the Financial Statements section of this report.
The Groups loss after tax for the year was $13.5 million 2008: post-tax loss $66.5 million.
The Company has declared no dividend for the year-ended 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
It is not the Directors current intention that the Company will pay a dividend for the foreseeable future.
29 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors report continued Directors interests The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and Directors remuneration are as set out in the Remuneration report.
Capital structure and takeovers directive Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with details of movements in share capital during the year are included in note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares.
Details of employee share schemes are disclosed in the Remuneration Report and in note 27 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
Article 55 of the Companys Articles restricts the percentage of Salamander shares that may be held by Canadian residents to below 10 per cent so as to permit the Company to rely on exemptions from certain obligations which the Company may be subject to under Canadian Securities Law.
Article 55 of the Companys Articles confers upon the Board the power to require Canadian citizens beneficially owning Salamander shares to transfer their Salamander shares when the threshold of 10 per cent Canadian Salamander Shareholders is approached.
In the event that such Canadian Salamander shareholders are required to transfer their Salamander shares under Article 55, the relevant Salamander shares will be sold in the market at the best price reasonably obtainable in the market and the net proceeds if any will be remitted to the relevant Canadian Salamander Shareholder.
This compulsory transfer power is generally available to the Board to exercise from time to time, and the Board is free to exercise this power in its absolute discretion.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Companys Articles of Association give power to the Board to appoint Directors but require the Directors to submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their election and there after re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Powers relating to the issuing and buy back of shares are also included in the Articles and the authority to issue shares is renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
The powers of directors are described in the Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, and in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
In relation to agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company, details of the BNPP led loan facility are set out in note 21 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
There are, in addition, a number of other agreements so affected, such as commercial contracts, property lease arrangements and employee share plans, none of which are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
30 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Significant shareholders At 17 March 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the significant interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued ordinary shares as notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows: Voting rights attaching to Percentage of total issued ordinary shares voting rights Nature of holding FinVentures UK 19,994,897 13.0 Direct Phineus Partners LP 15,278,126 9.9 Direct Indirect Artemis Investment Management Ltd 13,274,068 8.6 Direct 1 Och Ziff Management 10,694,688 7.0 Direct Indirect Fidelity Investments 7,348,132 4.8 Indirect Floriline SA 6,830,544 4.4 Direct Indirect Legal & General 6,231,951 4.1 Direct Black Rock 4,689,146 3.0 Direct 1 Och Ziff Management issued a press release on 19 January 2010 stating that its holding had gone below the 5% threshold but did not provide details of their new shareholding amount.
Employees The Company has a policy of providing employees with information about the Company and regular meetings between management and employees are held to exchange information and ideas.
2009 saw an increase in employee levels in line with the growth in operated activity.
At year end Salamander employed 126 people compared with 64 employees at the end of 2008.
The Group has a diverse workforce comprising of a mixture of local employees and expatriates.
It is an equal opportunities employer and gives every consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons where the requirements of the job may be adequately filled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Companys policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under similar terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion wherever appropriate.
The Company requires all employees to conform to the policies outlined in the Business Code of Conduct that is available for viewing on the Company website.
Annual General Meeting The Companys fourth Annual General Meeting as a listed public company will be held at the Park Plaza Country Hall Hotel, 1 Addington Street, London SE1 7RY at 2pm on Tuesday, 11 May 2010.
The notice of meeting and an explanatory circular to shareholders setting out the AGM business accompanies this Annual Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the group faces which are set-out in the Risk Management section of this report.
Payment policy The Groups policy in respect of its vendors is to agree and establish terms of payment when contracting for the goods or services and to abide by those payment terms.
The Company is the holding Company of the Group and has no trade creditors.
Further details can be found in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
31 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors report continued Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made no political donations 2008: nil.
Charitable donations made by the Group amounted to $38,000 2008: $41,000.
Auditors As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware.
In addition, each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP were first appointed as Auditors to the Company in September 2005 and have expressed their willingness to continue as Auditors.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups Auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review and note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
In addition, note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups forecasts and projections, demonstrate that the Group is adequately financed and is able to operate within the level of its current facility.
As highlighted in note 21 to the Financial Statements, the Group meets its investments required to realise its development projects and committed exploration and appraisal programme through a $200 million reserves based lending facility which is due for renewal in 2015.
In addition, in December 2009 the Group signed a $30 million subordinated junior facility as an extension to its existing senior reserves based lending facility.
The subordinated facility is with existing lenders BNP, the IFC and Natixis.
To date this facility has not been drawn.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty, particularly over the oil price, which affects revenue from the Groups production and the availability under the reserves based lending facility, the basis of which is discussed in note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group undertook a 2009 hedging programme and has undertaken a 2010 hedging programme to manage this risk.
The Directors believe that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in economic assumptions such as the oil price, show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its current reserves based lending facility.
In addition to provide increased flexibility to the Group to advance a number of strategic options in addition to its current planned programmes, the Group will announce on 18 March 2010 a proposed issue of a convertible bond for up to $100 million.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Approved by the Board on 17 March 2010 Douglas Barrie Company Secretary 17 March 2010 32 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2009
