Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 12 12 Managing our To achieve our vision of becoming the business lifecycle leading service company in our chosen markets, we must manage our business as effectively as possible.
Summary of the Business Lifecycle Governance Process 1.
Selecting markets The Business Lifecycle Governance Process BLGP formalises our approach We select markets that are politically to maximising value creation and managing the associated risk.
It helps us to and economically stable, which offer determine the markets we want to do business in, to bid successfully for the multiple contract opportunities and good contracts that add the most value, to transition these contracts to deliver this growth potential, and where we can value, and then to retain and grow them.
differentiate Serco from the competition.
We also ensure these markets have the appropriate margin and cash flow characteristics to enable us to meet our financial aspirations.
Selecting markets other factors, including our understanding of the customers and the way they procure, the markets drivers and maturity, and whether we can create an attractive and rewarding working environment for our employees.
Identifying opportunities In new markets, we consider our marketentry strategy and whether we need a new business model to succeed, and we assess any ethical and human rights 3.
Bidding selectively factors which may influence our decision to go ahead.
Identifying opportunities Once we are satisfied that the market 4.
Transitioning effectively is attractive, we identify opportunities we can bid for.
At this step we test the quality of each opportunity, including our understanding of the customers business and vision, their 5.
Delivering operational excellence funding for the project and how likely they are to proceed to procurement.
We compare each opportunity against other opportunities elsewhere, to determine which would be the best use of our resources.
Rebidding Bidding can take many months and can Throughout the life of a contract, we If we decide to rebid, we approach the therefore involve considerable expense aim to deliver operational excellence bid as if it were a new one, looking for and use of our people resources, so we and continual improvement further innovations and ways to increase only bid for the best opportunities through innovation.
the scope of the services we perform those which meet all our financial, for the customer.
Devolving responsibility to the contract ethical and other criteria and where we director helps us do this, by enabling them This helps us deliver even greater have a strong chance of winning.
to be responsive to our customers needs productivity and service quality during the This stage has multiple steps, from our and allowing them to put new ideas into next contract term.
Often the customer initial submission to the customer, to being practice.
It also makes our business chooses to include more services and shortlisted, to our final bid.
During the scalable, allowing us to successfully lengthen the contract, so that the value of bidding process, we develop a detailed manage a growing number of contracts.
a rebid can be considerably larger than the solution for the customers requirements original contract.
The quality of our service Our contracts are run within the control and test it thoroughly.
We also review the delivery and our ability to innovate mean framework set out in the Serco Management opportunitys attractiveness, and the risks that we retain around 90% of our contracts System SMS and every decision must be associated with it, at every step and at rebid.
in accordance with our values, as defined by reconfirm that we want to proceed with it.
Sercos Governing Principles see page 5.
Once we have secured the rebid, we return Once selected by the customer, the final This ensures that we always operate safely to the transition phase, where we bed-in step is to negotiate and sign the contract.
and responsibly, safeguarding the needs of our changes and any new services we all our stakeholders.
Transitioning effectively Working in the right way and meeting or Effectively transitioning a new contract exceeding our customers expectations, 8.
This process commences at helps us to build a long-term relationship When we exit a contract, we always contract signing and carries through to with our customer and makes us part of ensure we do so in the right way.
This often leads to our customer expanding the scale or scope of Where appropriate, we work closely with We ensure that we have appropriate the contract during its lifetime, which is very the incoming contractor to protect the planning and control measures in place to important for our growth.
It also positions interests of the customer and of the people start work seamlessly on day one, as we us well to win the contract at rebid.
who will transfer from us as the contract begin to implement the solution which we passes on.
This is also important because have developed in detail during the bidding of the value we place on long-term phase.
We also transfer the knowledge we 6.
Deciding to rebid relationships, which mean that we may well created during the bid to the team who will As the contract nears the end of its life, work for that customer again in the future.
run the contract, and continue to build we decide whether or not to rebid it.
good working and strategic relationships with our customer and other stakeholders.
Although we usually rebid, we do occasionally determine that it would be better to exit the contract.
We might do this, for example, if the market has stopped growing or become too price competitive, making it difficult for us to operate by our strict criteria such as providing good working conditions for our people, and meaning that we can get a greater return by investing our resources elsewhere.
