Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:06 Page 65 Directors Report 65 Directors Report Annual Review and Accounts Substantial shareholdings The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Review As at 25 February 2010 the Company had been notified under and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the 2009.
Comparative figures used in this report are for the Financial Services Authority of the following holdings of voting year ended 31 December 2008.
The Corporate Governance rights in its shares: Report set out on pages 59 to 64 forms part of the Statutory Directors Report.
Number of shares millions % held Lloyds Banking Group plc 24.2 4.96 Activities Fidelity International Limited 23.9 4.93 Baillie Gifford & Co 24.0 4.92 Serco Group plc is a holding company which operates via its Newton Investment Management Limited 23.6 4.85 subsidiaries and its joint ventures to improve services by HBOS plc 20.5 4.22 managing people, processes, technology and assets more Legal & General Group plc 20.3 3.99 effectively.
Serco supports governments, agencies and Ignis Investment Services Limited 19.5 3.98 companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the aviation, defence, education, health, home affairs, local government, nuclear, science, technology, The Directors are unaware of any restrictions on transfer of transport and commercial sectors.
securities in the Company or on voting rights.
There are also no known agreements between holders of the Companys The Our performance section on pages 14 to 57 reports on the securities which may result in such restrictions.
activities during the year, post balance sheet events and likely future developments.
The information in this section, which is required to fulfil the requirements of the Business Review, is Directors incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
The current members of the Board together with biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Share capital In October 2009 Kevin Beeston announced his intention to The issued share capital of the Company, together with the retire from the Board of Serco Group plc at the conclusion of details of shares issued during the year is shown in note 28 the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back shares is Directors interests restricted to that approved at the Companys annual general With the exception of the Executive Directors service meeting.
contracts and the Non-Executive Directors letters of The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors appointment, there are no contracts in which any Director has are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by Certain change in control conditions are included in the service the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force contracts of Directors which provide compensation or from time to time.
reduction of notice periods in the event of a change in control of the Company.
Dividends Details of the Directors interests in the ordinary shares and An interim dividend of 1.85p 2008: 1.48p per ordinary share options over the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in was paid on 16 October 2009.
The Directors recommend a the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 80. final dividend of 4.40p 2008: 3.52p per ordinary share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will Annual general meeting be paid on 19 May 2010 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 March 2010.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London at 11.00am on 11 May 2010.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes is sent to shareholders with this Review.
Financial risk policies A summary of the Groups treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to associated risks, is on pages 110 to 116.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 66 66 Employment policies Creditor payment policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment The Group requires each of its business units to negotiate where staff are individually valued and recognised.
Group and agree terms and conditions for payment for the supply companies and divisions operate within a framework of human of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to prices and other commercial matters.
their own market sector and country of operation.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms and the way in which The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, disputes are to be settled.
Payment is then made in honouring the rights of the individual and fostering partnership accordance with those terms.
and trust in every working relationship.
Policies and procedures The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2009 were for recruitment, training and career development promote 32 days 2008: 28 days.
equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and Donations ethnic or national origin.
The Group continues to encourage all staff to participate The Group gives full consideration to applications for in their local communities and has a process to capture employment, career development and promotion, received investment on a worldwide basis.
This measure is based from the disabled and offers employment when suitable upon the Business in The Community BiTC reporting format.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group, wherever practicable, arrangements are The value of this investment in 2009 at 1,746,261 made to continue their employment and training.
2008: 1,767,168 represents 1.0% of the Groups pre-tax profit.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structure of During the year neither the Company nor the Group made individual and collective consultation and negotiation are best political donations and they intend to continue with this policy.
The US businesses which joined the Group in 2008 as part of the acquisition of SI International have a Political Action Over the years, the Group has demonstrated that working with Committee PAC which is funded entirely by employees and trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by Serco, nor improvements to be delivered in business performance as well will they be, and any administrative services provided to the as terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees PAC by the US business are fully charged to and paid for by choose not to belong to a trade union, employee the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely involvement of staff within the business.
voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear by the availability of Sharesave, a share option plan and long the name of the employing company.
term incentive plans for senior management, which effectively aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance conditions are achieved prior to exercise.
Financial statements At the date of this report, as far as each Director is aware, Corporate responsibility there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps The Group maintains a focus on corporate responsibility that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make through a structure model that is applied across the business.
himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Our corporate responsibility model focuses on our people, establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
safety, the environment and the communities we serve.
This model forms an integral part of our management system and is supported by defined policies in all of the areas it covers.
Auditors These are applied within the context of our policies on Ethics Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in and Business Conduct and Human Rights.
Activities are office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be reported quarterly as part of our internal assurance reporting proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its Further information on our approach to corporate responsibility behalf by: and how we have delivered our commitments is contained in the Corporate Responsibility Review which is available online at www.
This site also provides an overview of our approach to corporate responsibility, our management system and our policies.
Joanne Roberts Secretary 25 February 2010 As at 9 March 2010, the Company had not been notified of any changes or additions to these notifiable interests.
