Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 4 4 Our offering Serco delivers essential services in a wide range of markets around the world.
We are able to operate across this broad spectrum because our core capability is people-led service delivery and change management.
This means that we analyse a customers light rail skills from improving and running problems and produce a tailored solution the Docklands Light Railway in London which has the improved management of were instrumental in winning the contract people and service at its heart.
to operate the Dubai Metro.
We were also able to take our experience of operating Our solution is to redesign organisations to UK immigration centres to win similar work remove bureaucracy, enhance processes for Australias Department of Immigration and liberate people to deliver their best.
We introduce technology, continue to invest during the life of the contract and Second, we are able to create unique make the best use of available assets.
combinations of skills from around our The outcome is improved service quality organisation to provide differentiated and productivity, which in turn reduces proposals to customers.
Operating costs for our customers.
Londons Woolwich Ferry, for example, uses the marine services skills we have Crucially, we instil our values, which are developed in our defence operations and defined by our Governing Principles see joins them with our experience of running opposite, and are aligned with our ethos of mass transit operations.
Other examples delivering high-quality services.
These are include the use of our information central to everything we do, and focus us technology skills to support services that on delivering the best for our customers, help the long-term unemployed into work, our people and the wider community enable citizens to access local services what we call bringing service to life.
Third, we are able to benchmark our performance across contracts in different Transferable skills locations and ensure that we share best In addition to our core capability, we have practice, so that we can constantly developed a wide range of specialist skills improve our operational delivery for in the sectors in which we operate.
help us to grow in a number of ways.
First, we can transfer these skills around the world, winning new work and expanding our geographical reach.
For example, our We redesign organisations to remove bureaucracy, enhance processes and liberate people to deliver their best.
