Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 10 10 Our strategy Our strategy has four elements, each of which contributes to two or more desired outcomes.
This table explains our strategy and sets out what we achieved in 2009.
Strategy Build a balanced portfolio We aim to reduce risk and increase Description opportunity by building a balanced contract portfolio, spread across markets.
This reduces our exposure to market fluctuations, enables us to select the best opportunities whichever market they are in, and allows us to transfer expertise from one market to another.
Desired outcome Reduce our exposure to 4 market fluctuations Strengthen our position in 4 our chosen markets Develop new skills and capabilities for the future We strengthened and broadened our Key achievements portfolio.
We won 4.5bn of contracts, in 2009 both through new wins and expanding the scope and scale of existing contracts.
The Operating Review, starting on page 14, contains more details of our wins during the year.
We entered new growth markets, such as pathology and welfare to work, and broadened the scope of our business in existing geographical markets by leveraging capabilities developed in other regions, such as using our UK skills in immigration services to win contracts in Australia, and our light rail skills to ensure a successful start to our Dubai Metro contract.
Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 11 Our business 11 Deliver excellent Make strategic Develop new models service acquisitions Delivering excellent service means While we are primarily focused on We respond to emerging opportunities meeting and often exceeding organic growth, we make by finding new ways to deliver services.
We do this acquisitions to acquire skills which This may mean collaboration between by having the responsible behaviours will be important for future growth our divisions, bringing together skills enshrined in our values at the heart and to enter markets where we see and experience which few other of everything we do.
companies can replicate, or it may mean partnering with our customer This enables us to build long-term or the third sector.
Our ability to customer relationships, to expand lead change keeps us at the the scope and scale of contracts forefront of our markets.
during their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 We maintained our rebid win rate at 90% We have built a strong platform for growth We won three contracts in a new UK and continued to win one in two new bids, in the substantial US federal government market welfare to work by developing a reflecting the quality of our service and our services market through the successful unique and innovative model, partnering ability to select the most attractive integration of SI International, which we with third sector and other organisations.
We now Similarly, our partnership with third sector serve all branches of the US armed We successfully started a number of major organisations played a significant role in services, as well as intelligence and federal new contracts, including our contract to helping to secure our appointment as civil government agencies.
operate the Dubai Metro, three Flexible preferred bidder for two new prison New Deal contracts in the UK, and our We also successfully integrated two smaller contracts, at Belmarsh West and Maghull, immigration services contract in Australia.
acquisitions, InfoVision in India now Serco in the UK.
BPO, positioning us for opportunities in Our focus on service and corporate We created GSTS Pathology, a the Indian services market, and Grosvenor responsibility was reflected in numerous groundbreaking joint venture with Guys Health in the UK now Serco Occupational awards.
Our approach to corporate and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, to Health, adding to the services we offer our responsibility is described on page 50 improve its pathology services.
