Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 5 Our business 5 Our culture and values Serco could not succeed without the Our Governing Principles skill and dedication of all of our people around the world.
They embody our culture and are responsible for living our We foster an entrepreneurial values each day.
Our culture and values truly differentiate us from our culture competition and underpin the way we We are passionate about building innovative and run the company.
We succeed by We work with our customers in a encouraging and generating new ideas.
collaborative, flexible and imaginative way.
We trust our people to deliver.
We seek to understand what motivates them and to share their service ethos.
We We embrace change and, by taking measured risks, devolve responsibility to the contract level, encourage creative thinking.
empowering our people to deliver their best for our customer and instilling a stimulating culture so they feel they can personally make a difference.
Our values, which are encapsulated in our We enable our people to excel Governing Principles, are a fundamental part of this culture, and inform every Our success comes from our commitment and energy decision we make.
By living these values, to go the extra mile.
We are responsible to each other we ensure that we operate in a responsible and can expect support when we need it most.
way and that we deliver the excellent We expect our people to achieve more by recognising service on which our business success and harnessing the power of individuals.
people for their knowledge, and ideas and potential to Page 47 sets out how we develop our contribute.
people and enable them to excel.
We deliver our promises We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
We only promise what we can deliver.
If we make mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about what we need to achieve and we expect to make a fair profit.
We build trust and respect We build respect by operating in a safe, socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
We never compromise on safety and we always operate in an ethical and responsible manner.
In doing so, we treat others as we would wish to be treated ourselves and challenge when we see something is wrong.
We integrate with our communities.
