Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 68 68 Directors profiles Kevin Stanley Beeston FCMA 47 Christopher Rajendran Hyman CA SA 46 3 Chairman Chief Executive Kevin Beeston became Non-Executive Chairman of Serco Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief Executive of Serco Group plc in September 2007, having previously served as the Group plc in 2002.
He is responsible for the day to day Group's Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance management of the business as well as setting the vision and Director since joining the Group in 1985.
In addition, he is the strategy of the Group.
He is also Chairman of the Prince of non-executive Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas Wales' charity In Kind Direct, and a Trustee of the Africa Learning BV and Domestic and General Ltd, and is a nonFoundation.
Christopher is a Trustee Director of the Board for executive Director of IMI plc.
Business in the Community and is Chairman for The Princes Seeing is Believing Programme.
He is also a member of the UK Commission for Employment and Skills.
Christopher graduated from Natal University in Durban, South Africa and qualified as a chartered accountant, serving with Arthur Andersen and Ernst & Young before joining Serco in 1994 as the European Finance Director.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary in 1996, Corporate Finance Director in 1997 and Group Finance Director in April 1999.
Andrew Mark Jenner ACA 41 Finance Director Andrew was appointed Group Finance Director in May 2002.
He joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever and Deloitte & Touche LLP.
He became Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for treasury activities in 1999 before joining the Board in 2002.
Andrew shares responsibility with the Chief Executive for our relationship with shareholders and the City.
He is also responsible for the Group's risk management and assurance framework and its PFI investment business.
Andrew is a non-executive Director of Galliford Try plc, one of the UKs leading construction and housebuilding groups and is Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 15:14 Page 69 Directors profiles 69 From left to right: Leonard V. Broese van Groenou Non-Executive Director Joanne Roberts Company Secretary Kevin Beeston Chairman Christopher Hyman Chief Executive Margaret, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Senior Independent Director Tom Corcoran Non-Executive Director David Richardson Non-Executive Director Andrew Jenner Finance Director Tom Corcoran BA PhD 65 Baroness Ford of Cunninghame MA MPhil 52 1 2 3 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Tom joined Serco in December 2007 as a Non-Executive Margaret joined Serco in October 2003 as a Non-Executive Director.
He brings 40 years of global business experience, Director.
She spent her early career in a variety of roles either particularly in the US aerospace and defence contracting in the public sector or as an advisor to Government.
He is currently Senior Advisor to private equity firm 1997 to 2000 she was Chairman of Lothian Health Board and The Carlyle Group and President of Corcoran Enterprises, LLC, from 2000 to 2003 was a non-executive Director of Ofgem.
December 2007 Margaret retired from English Partnerships, the national regeneration agency, after six years as Chairman.
Tom has held senior positions in the aerospace, defence and From 2000 to 2005 Margaret was a Director of Good Practice electronics industries including Chairman and Chief Executive Limited, the publishing company that she founded.
She was, Officer of Allegheny Teledyne and President and Chief until May 2009, Managing Director, Social Infrastructure and Operating Officer of Lockheed Martin's Electronic and Space Development, Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets.
During his 26 years with General Electric, Tom held senior management positions including Vice President and Margaret is Chairman of Irvine Bay Urban Regeneration General Manager of GE's Aerospace operations.
She is also a non-executive Director of Grainger plc and a non-executive Director of Trade Risks Ltd.
In April 2009 He is also a non-executive Director of Aer Lingus Ltd, L3 she was appointed as Chair of the Olympic Park Legacy Communications Holdings Inc, Labarge Inc, ARINC Inc. and Company.
GenCorp Inc. David Richardson BSc FCA 58 Leonard V. Broese van Groenou MSc 63 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director 1 2 3 Non-Executive Director David joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in June 2003.
Leonard joined Serco as a Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
He has previously held the position of Finance Director of Leonard was previously Vice-President Human Resources and Whitbread, where his roles in a 20-year career have included member of the corporate executive committee of eight years as Strategy Director.
David was instrumental in Pennsylvania-based Air Products, a New York listed company transforming Whitbread from a brewing and pubs company serving customers in technology, energy, healthcare and into a market leader in hotels, restaurants and leisure clubs.
industrial markets worldwide where he served for nearly 30 David is currently a non-executive Director of Tomkins plc and years.
His career at Air Products spans numerous international Chairman of Forth Ports plc roles including financial control, business planning, operational management and human resources.
He is the Chairman of the Netherlands Benevolent Society.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee
