Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 46 46 Resources Suppliers Joint ventures Business relationships Our approach to procurement has four Serco has a number of joint ventures Customers main strands: to make the most of the around the world, particularly in the Our ability to develop long-term benefits of competitive supplier transport, defence and science sectors.
relationships with customers is a central selection: to optimise the efficiency and part of our business model.
Day-to-day Our joint ventures with Abellio formerly effectiveness of our processes and responsibility for meeting our customers known as NedRailways provide resources: to drive sustainability needs lies with our contract directors, outstanding services to the travelling throughout our supply chain: and to who we empower to do what is public.
Together, we run Northern Rail, develop positive relationships with our necessary to deliver excellent service.
which is the countrys largest train key suppliers.
Our approach to working with our franchise, and Merseyrail, the UKs most customers is set out in our Governing We have a dedicated procurement and punctual train operator.
Principles see page 5, which aim to supply chain team which is responsible AWE Management Limited AWE is our ensure that we deliver a consistently for putting this approach into practice.
highly successful joint venture with good service to all our customers, As part of this, they continue to enhance Lockheed Martin and Jacobs Engineering whatever we do for them.
our systems and processes for choosing Group Inc. and managing our suppliers.
This helps We also maintain relationships at all us to maximise the value of our supplier AWE manages the UKs Atomic Weapons levels with our customers, so that they relationships, makes it quicker and Establishment and has consistently are aware of how we can help them and cheaper for us to transact with them, delivered contract outputs on time and we can anticipate their changing needs and assists with understanding and on budget.
and identify opportunities at an early monitoring areas such as environmental stage.
These relationships lie with our In Australia, DMS Maritime, our joint impact before our people make a divisional and Group leaders, including venture with P&O Maritime Services, is a decision to buy.
business development teams and our key partner for the Australian Defence Our contracts have many common external affairs team.
Force ADF and other agencies.
For this reason, we partnership with Sodexo, we also deliver Our reputation with our existing aim to use carefully chosen preferred garrison support services to the ADF customers is also vital in winning new suppliers, enabling us to achieve better through Serco Sodexo Defence Services work.
Many factors influence our terms and conditions and make the most Pty Limited.
reputation, including the quality of our of our economies of scale.
service, our values and public-service We continue to develop new business ethos, our capacity to innovate, and our The remainder of our contracts models, which can include forming joint engagement with our employees and procurement needs are managed by our ventures with our customers.
For other stakeholders, such as local contracts, allowing them to use local example, in 2009, we created GSTS communities.
We believe that our high suppliers when appropriate.
In addition, Pathology, a groundbreaking joint rebid and new bid win rates demonstrate we are a member of Minority Supplier venture with Guys and St Thomas NHS the strength of our reputation with new Development UK, a not-for-profit Foundation Trust, to transform its and existing customers.
organisation which provides a direct link pathology services by combining the between companies and ethnic-minority clinical and scientific excellence of the businesses, to enable the building of Trust with our service and business mutually beneficial business expertise, and target the significant relationships.
Strong relationships, based on mutual trust and respect and clarity of roles, are essential ingredients if a joint venture is to deliver excellent customer service.
Our divisional management teams are responsible for relationships with our joint venture partners, supported by members of the Group Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
This includes holding regular strategy and review meetings with our partners.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 47 Our performance 47 Strategic partners Our people strategy has three main Head.
This relates to intellectual and We often run contracts as part of a components.
We want to develop personal capacity.
We want leaders who consortium, either as prime contractor or leaders who are fit for the future and who can solve complex problems, take a as a subcontractor.
This allows us to will thrive as Serco grows.
We want long-term view, inspire and influence bring together companies with the skills people who bring service to life, who are others, focus on outcomes, innovate, to meet the precise requirements of a fully integrated and engaged with Serco, be resilient and be adaptable to a bid.
For example, at AWE we work and who we can develop to achieve their situations needs.
together with Lockheed Martin and full potential.
And we want to make it Hands.
This covers skills, knowledge Jacobs Engineering Group to provide easier to manage our people, by and experience.
We want our leaders to and maintain the warheads for the UKs continually enhancing our systems be skilled at shaping and delivering the nuclear deterrent.
plans and capabilities that will drive our Our values and the open and honest way performance and growth.
Developing our leaders in which we work also make us an Behind each of these components is a As a devolved and fast-growing attractive partner for third-sector further set of criteria, which explain the organisation, Serco has a high demand organisations, who often lack the scale desired behaviours and the standards for capable and motivated leaders who and experience to be able to access against which we appraise our have the potential to grow with us.
are responsible for managing operations, In 2009 we won three Flexible New Deal securing our future growth and creating Developing our leaders is vital for contracts with the UK Department of the environment in which our workforce Sercos future.
During the year, we Work and Pensions.
We are delivering can do what they do best: serve profiled our top 100 leaders against the these services through a network of more customers with passion and skill.
The process ensured that our than 60 subcontractors, around a third way they lead is as important as what leaders fully understand how they align of which are from the third-sector.
to the model and have development arrangements allow us to integrate and plans to help them deliver higher levels We have created a leadership model co-ordinate the work of our third-sector of performance.
3 known as H - Heart, Head and Hands.
partners, allowing them to concentrate on These ingredients describe how great delivering the best service to end users.
In a separate exercise, we have also leaders in Serco behave, with an undertaken a comprehensive talent Responsibility for relationships with our emphasis on our Governing Principles review, led by our Chief Executive.
This strategic partners lies with the relevant and our customers.
The components of involved every business unit around the contract and divisional management.
the model are summarised below: world identifying its current and future leaders, enabling us to create Heart.
This covers our leaders motives Our people comprehensive succession plans and and demonstration of our Governing talent pipelines in each part of our Principles.
We want them to create our Our rapid growth means that the number business to support our growth.
culture through personal example and of our employees is continually have the courage to stand by their increasing.
we have a clear framework for managing and developing our people, so that we can continue to succeed.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 48 48 Resources continued Integrating, engaging and developing Integrating new people Viewpoint also highlighted areas where our people we can improve how we work at a local Sercos growth means that several We are dependent on the skill and level.
We have created an online tool to thousand people join us every year, as enthusiasm of our people.
They enable generate action plans to deliver these we win new contracts.
We typically find us to deliver great service to our improvements.
Around 1,500 plans are that they bring with them a service ethos customers and are ultimately responsible logged on the system, with many others that matches our own, given that a large for the strength of our reputation and our held offline.
These plans will help our proportion of our employees also began ability to grow.
We therefore need to leaders enhance the working their careers delivering services in the integrate new joiners, effectively engage environment for our people.
Our approach to managing with all our people and help them contracts liberates our people to put this achieve their potential.
We also ethos into action.
Developing our people recognise outstanding achievements Enabling our people to excel is one of The best method of spreading our values through our global Pulse Awards.
our Governing Principles, meaning their is for our people to see them in use.
That development leaders have a key role to play, by may consist of informal on-the-job making decisions in accordance with our training right through to highly specialist values.
We also prioritise communication and technical training.
Increasingly we with our people, particularly in the are moving to a blended learning transition phase after we have won a approach.
What this means is an contract, so that they understand Serco appropriate balance of face-to-face and the way we work.
We are Our approach and the outcome is the in the process of rolling out e-learning same around the world.
While there are programmes which are both cost always cultural differences between effective for us and flexible for our countries, our values are universal and people, who can access them at their own our people embrace them wherever they location and at a time that suits them.
We developed our Skills for You programme in partnership with UK Engaging with our people Government departments, trade unions In 2009, we once again undertook our and training providers.
It offers our global Viewpoint employee survey.
More people the chance to improve their than three-quarters of our people literacy, numeracy and language skills responded.
This is an excellent rate, while continuing with their workplace particularly as the nature of many of our learning.
Since its introduction, we have peoples roles meant they were unable to assessed 3,500 of our people with over complete the survey online.
The surveys results show that our values In 2010 we will be appointing a third are being put into action.
Our people party as our national Skills for Life believe that Serco has an open culture of partner, who will market our programme respect, and that we take into account across our UK businesses and offer an different opinions and perspectives, easy, standardised means of engaging making employees comfortable to speak with the programme but with local up.
The survey also confirmed that our flexible delivery tailored to the needs of people are motivated to go beyond what each contract.
is required of them, and do what is needed to get the job done.
Serco R A 2009 p36-144 Serco sample only 25 03 2010 16:20 Page 49 Our performance 49 Recognising achievement Key people-related objectives for 2010 Our Pulse Awards are designed to Objective Comment celebrate the very best qualities and Extend learning tools within We will make tools available company-wide based achievements of Serco people, our the online Serco Academy on need, including a bespoke online induction customers and partners.
The awards are programme due to be launched.
All new starters closely linked to our Governing will complete the programme within three months Principles.
They recognise people who of starting and there will be sufficient licences to excel at innovation, inspire through their also allow participation of existing employees.
leadership, demonstrate outstanding commitment and make an exceptional Standardise best practice in We will make it easier for line managers to deliver impact on communities, the environment people management across a common experience to employees to enable or in areas such as safety and ethics.
In the Group them to excel.
The employee lifecycle will be 2009, 158 individuals and teams were documented.
To connect business We will develop measures to analyse the link performance metrics and between engagement and business performance.
Managing our People levels of engagement We continually look to improve our efficiency, including the ways we manage our people.
Our aim is to have intuitive, easy to use tools, processes and systems which make it easier to manage our growing workforce and deliver even higher levels of productivity and service as a result.
We are creating a global template for all the processes involved in people management, which will both reduce cost and ensure a consistent experience for our people, wherever they work.
We have piloted this in our Dubai Metro contract.
