Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 6 6 A balanced portfolio Our business began in the UK and we have grown rapidly.
We have also diversified our portfolio by expanding internationally, notably into North America which now accounts for around a quarter of our revenues, into Australia, Europe, the Middle East and, most recently, India.
Civil Government We deliver a wide range 2009 Revenue of high-quality essential services for our customers.
1,556m Our broad capabilities Our work in Civil Government includes home affairs, IT and business process and market expertise outsourcing BPO, welfare to work, have enabled us to build integrated services, education and childrens services, healthcare, and a balanced portfolio of consulting.
In the US, we provide long-term contracts in a support to a number of civil government agencies through our records variety of sectors in Civil management and IT capabilities.
Government, Defence, In home affairs, we are the UKs leading Transport and Science.
private provider of custodial accommodation, and deliver immigration control, homeland security, electronic monitoring, court escorting, case management and technology services.
In Australia, we manage two prisons and provide immigration services, including operating seven immigration centres.
We also provide services to Hunfeld prison in Germany.
In welfare to work, we are delivering the first phase of The Flexible New Deal in We deliver transformational services in three UK regions.
The Flexible New Deal is the UK for local government using our the UK Governments new flagship initiative information and communications to assist long-term unemployed people in technology ICT and BPO skills, and are achieving and sustaining employment.
a leading provider of business support services.
In the US, we deliver information Our integrated services business provides technology and business process services innovative environmental, streetscene and to government agencies such as the other direct services to UK local councils, Department of Energy, the Department of and in Australia and Hong Kong.
We also Homeland Security, the Department of manage a range of services contracts in State and the Federal Communications the health, local government and Commission.
We provide ICT services in several We deliver education and childrens European countries, to both governments services across three local authorities in and European agencies, and state-of-theEngland, manage inspection services for art technology solutions and integrated schools, further education colleges and systems to government ministries and work-based learning organisations in the commercial customers in the Middle East.
central region of England, and support the We established a presence in India in 2008 delivery of national childrens services and now provide BPO services to major programmes locally.
In health, we provide a wide array of services including pathology through GSTS Pathology, our joint venture with Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, out-ofhours GP care, forensic medical services, occupational and custodial health services and community care.
In consulting, we raise awareness of Serco and enhance our reputation with new and existing customers by providing highimpact advisory services and developing new innovative delivery models.
Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 7 Our business 7 Defence Transport Science 2009 Revenue 2009 Revenue 2009 Revenue 1,020m 789m 605m Serco is a leader in the provision of We deliver innovative transport Serco is a leader in managing both support services to the armed forces solutions to road and public transport science-based organisations and the of the UK, US, Canada, Australia authorities, government agencies and process of developing, transferring and and Germany.
We are a key applying knowledge to deliver provider of infrastructure and maximum economic, social and In the UK, we provide training, engineering operational expertise across metro, environmental benefits to society.
and operational support to the Royal Air rail, road, air traffic control and Force, and the aviation arms of the British We manage the National Physical ferry services.
We also support the Laboratory NPL, which is one of the worlds Royal Navys three main UK bases and In the UK, with our partner, Abellio major scientific establishments.
It is our operate and maintain strategic assets such formerly known as NedRailways, we run responsibility to maximise the positive as secure satellite communications, the Northern Rail the UKs largest train impact of NPLs mission in measurement Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, franchise and Merseyrail the UKs most standards and science, for business and and the UKs ballistic missile early warning punctual train operator.
We also manage, with system at RAF Fylingdales.
We provide award-winning Docklands Light Railway Battelle and the University of Manchester, systems engineering, safety assurance and and Woolwich Ferry in London.
Key road the National Nuclear Laboratory, one of the risk management services, and support contracts include the design and UKs leading technology service providers the essential defence and force protection implementation of Transport for Londons and a centre of excellence in nuclear research carried out at the Defence Cycle Hire Scheme, the National Traffic non-proliferation.
Control Centre, national motorway traffic We have an integral role in the UK defence infrastructure services and the installation In North America, our skills encompass and civil nuclear industries.
Since 2000, and maintenance of road safety cameras information technology, professional Serco, as a joint venture partner in AWE throughout the UK.
services, cyber operations, personnel Management Limited, has been entrusted support services, systems engineering, We own and operate Great Southern Rail with the management of the UK Atomic logistics, national security analysis and in Australia, including the Ghan and Indian Weapons Establishment, which is intelligence, and we serve every branch Pacific trans-continental services.
In Hong responsible for providing the warheads for of the military.
Many of our employees are Kong, we provide parking services and the UKs nuclear deterrent.
In addition we embedded in military bases, working operate road tunnels and the road corridor have provided independent specialist side-by-side with servicemen and women to mainland China.
We run information and nuclear safety advice to the Royal Navy in to deliver military support.
In Canada, we integrated transport management systems support of its nuclear submarine fleet for provide base operations to the Canadian in Hong Kong, Queensland, Western nearly half a century.
Department of National Defence at Australia and New South Wales, and traffic We also offer specialist technical support Goose Bay.
to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing We deliver training, logistics and operational In North America, we operate more than safety, environmental, risk and asset support services to the Australian Defence 60 air traffic control towers for the Federal management advice and operational Force, with a presence on every defence Aviation Administration.
We support solutions across the UKs civil nuclear sites.
In Germany, we deliver Georgias traffic management center and training, logistics and operational support have a new contract to install and operate services to the Bundeswehr.
We offer parking services, including a smart parking system in San Francisco.
In Canada, we deliver driver examination services in Ontario.
In the Middle East, we run the new Dubai Metro system and provide air traffic control services, and airport and technical services, across the United Arab Emirates and in Bahrain.
We provide consultancy for Dubais Roads and Transport Authority, supporting operations, maintenance and IT processes.
Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 8 8 Markets National and local governments around the world face unrelenting demand from citizens for better public services.
Unemployment Growing population s Crime prevention Economic development Migration Congestion Ageing populations Security Climate change Governments must also address significant challenges, including unemployment and economic development, ageing and growing populations, migration, security, crime prevention, congestion and climate change.
Our business NEW Layout 1 25 03 2010 16:31 Page 9 Our business 9 Increasing demand for highSignificant potential for Our competitive environment quality services market growth National and local governments around Our markets are large and expanding, Competition is necessary for our the world face unrelenting demand from with the services we offer increasingly markets to operate effectively.
citizens for better public services.
helping our government customers to A fair, competitive environment encourages address some of the biggest areas of At the same time, their finances have customers to put services out to tender, as their spending.
deteriorated sharply and many face it provides a benchmark to ensure they are significant budget deficits which will take The UK, for example, is one of the worlds getting best value, and drives our public years to rectify.
Governments must also most developed markets for the services industry to innovate.
address significant challenges, including outsourcing of public services, but there Our competitors are mainly commercial unemployment and economic development, is still considerable scope for growth.
companies but in some markets they can ageing and growing populations, migration, Of the UKs total government spending include public sector bodies.
We have, for security, crime prevention, congestion and of 620bn, the public services industry example, competed against governmentclimate change.
Similarly, in owned railway companies in the transport the US, the federal government services The scale of these challenges, and the market and against UK National Health market accounts for around 10% of total requirement to improve productivity given Service Trusts in health.
the financial challenges they face, are The breadth of our business means that encouraging governments to make The scale of our markets and the increasing no organisation competes with us across transformational changes and address scope of our capabilities, which allows us all our markets, and only a few operate in some of the largest areas of their spend.
to enter new areas within these markets, more than one.
However, we see a good This is driving a greater acceptance of means that we can be selective about the number of effective competitors in all of innovative ways of achieving change and opportunities we bid for, only taking on our markets.
As we enter new markets, broadening our addressable markets.
those which meet our strict criteria.
It also we meet competitors who specialise in means that our share of any individual Governments are not alone in the need to those areas, but in our established market is not relevant to our ability to improve productivity.
Our private sector markets, competition has remained steady succeed there or to delivering our customers face similar imperatives and as our customers focus on the established growth ambitions.
are seeking our help to achieve their aims.
providers who they trust to deliver what they need.
Given our customers challenges, our ability to support them with high-quality Our long track record as a pure service services is increasingly attractive to them.
company, the breadth and depth of our We are well placed to help them maintain capabilities, our ability to tailor our offering and improve service standards whilst and to develop new models and better achieving greater productivity, given the ways of working, puts us in a strong breadth and depth of our capabilities position for the future.
across a wide range of markets, our track record of delivery and our proven ability to create innovative solutions targeted at their needs.
Given our customers challenges, our ability to support them with high-quality services is increasingly attractive to them.
