Governance Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited financial of the ordinary shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value statements of the group for the year ended 31 March 2009. of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor Principal activity on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general The principal activity of the group is the supply of water and the provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
treatment and disposal of sewage.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer Details of the principal joint venture, associated and subsidiary of securities or on voting rights.
undertakings of the group at 31 March 2009 appear in notes 20, 21 and 41 to the financial statements on pages 77 and 103.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 35 to the financial statements on page 97.
For shares held by the Severn Trent Business review Employee Share Ownership Trust, the trustee abstains from voting.
The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the report No person has any special rights of control over the companys and performance reviews for the groups main businesses and share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
the financial review on pages 4 to 23 provide detailed information relating to the group and its strategy, the operation of its businesses With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the and the results and financial position for the year ended 31 March company is governed by its articles of association, the Combined 2009.
Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers Details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group are of directors are described in the Board Governance document, the set out in the Governance report on pages 32 and 33. articles and the Governance report on page 24.
All of the above are incorporated by reference in and shall be Under its articles of association, the directors have authority to deemed to form part of this report.
issue up to 110,316,091 ordinary shares, subject to the aggregate nominal amount limit set at the 2008 AGM.
Research and development There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or Expenditure on research and development, including amounts terminate upon, a change of control of the company, such as capitalised as tangible fixed assets related to research and commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease development, amounted to 5.7 million 2008: 4.9 million.
arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the Treasury management business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are The disclosures required under the EU Fair Value Directive in not aware of any agreements between the company and its relation to the use of financial instruments by the company are set directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss out in note 22 to the accounts on pages 78 to 87. of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Post balance sheet events Directors and their interests Details of post balance sheet events are set out in note 39 to the Details of changes to the board during the year and of the directors group financial statements on page 102. offering themselves for reappointment at the AGM are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Dividends An interim dividend of 26.29p per ordinary share was paid Details of directors service agreements are set out in the Directors on 16 January 2009.
The directors recommend a final dividend remuneration report on page 48. of 41.05p per ordinary share to be paid on 31 July 2009 to The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are shareholders on the register on 19 June 2009.
This would bring shown on pages 51 to 53. the total dividend for 2008 09 to 67.34p per ordinary share 2008: 65.63p.
The payment of the final dividend is subject Biographies of the directors currently serving on the board are set to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Capital structure Directors indemnities Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with The companys articles of association provide that directors of the details of the movements in the companys issued share capital company shall be indemnified by the company against any costs during the year are shown in note 31 to the financial statements incurred by them in carrying out their duties including defending on page 95.
The company has one class of ordinary shares which any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one as directors in which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their vote at general meetings of the company.
The issued nominal value favour or relief from any liability is granted to them by the court.
36 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Supplier payment policy subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public duties and support for bodies representing the Individual operating companies within the group are responsible for business community in policy review or reform.
The company has establishing appropriate policies with regard to the payment of their therefore obtained limited authority from shareholders as a suppliers.
The companies agree terms and conditions under which precautionary measure to allow the company to continue supporting business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
It is group the community and such organisations without inadvertently policy that provided a supplier is complying with the relevant terms breaching the legislation.
and conditions, including the prompt and complete submission of all specified documentation, payment will be made in accordance At the 2006 AGM, shareholders gave the company authorities to with agreed terms.
It is also group policy to ensure that suppliers make political donations or to incur political expenditure in the EU know the terms on which payment will take place when business is which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations up agreed.
Details of supplier payment policies can be obtained from to an aggregate annual limit of 50,000 each for the company the individual companies at the addresses shown in note 41 to the and its subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
Pursuant to those financial statements on page 103.
Trade creditors for the group at authorities, during the year ended 31 March 2009 the group the year end are estimated as representing 39.3 days purchases incurred costs of nil 2008: nil.
Those authorities will expire at the 2008: 38.1 days purchases.
2009 AGM and accordingly the board has decided to put forward a resolution to this years AGM to renew the authorities to make Contributions for political and charitable purposes donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure Donations to charitable organisations during the year amounted to up to a maximum of 50,000 per annum.
Donations are given to charities Companies Act 2006, this resolution also covers any political whose projects align closely with our aim to promote the donations made, or political expenditure incurred, by any responsible use of water resources and waste water services which subsidiaries of the company.
provide the opportunity for longer term partnerships.
In addition we provide donations to employee nominated charities through a Substantial shareholdings matched funding scheme and health and safety reward schemes.
As at 26 May 2009 the company had been notified in accordance We are also committed to supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the charity dedicated to providing safe domestic water and sanitation to following major shareholdings: the worlds poorest people.
of of voting rights ordinary In response to the floods of July 2007 Severn Trent Water and issued shares of Nature of established a 3.5 million recovery fund for Gloucestershire.
17 Name of holder share capital 97 19p each holding During the 2007 08 financial year 1.6 million was paid to the fund.
During the year under review a further 1.9 million was Pictet Asset Management SA 7.601% 17,718,717 Indirect paid to the Flood Relief Fund.
Of the 1.9 million paid during the Legal & General Group Plc 5.991% 14,162,139 Direct financial year, approximately 40,000 2008: 1.1 million was Invesco Limited 5.078% 11,980,630 Indirect paid directly to charitable organisations in the Gloucestershire area.
Newton Investment The remainder of the donation to the Flood Relief Fund was paid Management Limited 5.049% 11,934,674 Indirect through Gloucestershire local authorities and Gloucestershire First Barclays Plc 3.608% 8,412,304 Indirect a partnership between public sector bodies and local businesses to support other recovery projects.
Authority to purchase shares During the year a provision of 5 million has been made for additional contributions to the Severn Trent Charitable Trust The company was given authority at its AGM in 2008 to make as agreed with Ofwat.
market purchases of ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 23,548,575 shares.
Similar authority will again be sought from Severn Trents policy is not to make any donations for political shareholders at this years AGM.
No market purchases were made purposes in the UK, or to donate to EU political parties or incur EU by the company during the year ended 31 March 2009.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc nor its subsidiaries made any political donations or incurred political Employees expenditure in the financial year under review.
The average number of employees within the group is shown Under the provisions of the Political Parties Elections and in note 9 to the financial statements on page 69.
Referendums Act 2000 the relevant provisions of which are now Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key contained in Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholder factor in being a successful business.
Apart from ensuring an authority is required for political donations to be made or political individual has the ability to do the job we do not discriminate in any expenditure to be incurred by the company or any of its subsidiaries way and make every effort to ensure that those with disabilities are in the EU and disclose any such payments in the annual report.
We ensure that training, career The legislation gives a wide definition of what constitutes political donations and political expenditure including sponsorship, Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Governance Directors report development and promotion opportunities are available for all our Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
The groups objectives, employees irrespective of their gender, race, age or disability.
policies and processes for managing its capital and its financial risk management objectives are described in the Financial Review The group actively encourages employee involvement and and in the Governance report on pages 24 to 33.
Details of the consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees groups financial instruments, hedging activities and exposure to informed of its activity and financial performance by way of credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 22 to the group briefings and publication to staff of all relevant information and financial statements.
To help develop employees interest in the companys performance, Severn Trent offers two employee The groups principal operating subsidiary, Severn Trent Water, is a share plans.
The Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme, an HM Revenue regulated long term business characterised by multi year investment and Customs approved SAYE plan, is offered to UK employees on programmes.
The groups strategic funding objectives reflect this.
The Severn Trent Share Incentive Plan, approved The group therefore seeks to attain a balance of long term funding by HM Revenue and Customs, makes an annual award of shares to or commitment of funds across a range of funding at the best Severn Trent Plc and Severn Trent Water Limited employees, based possible economic cost.
Average debt maturity is 19 years and the on performance against the KPIs.
effective average interest cost during the year was 5.6%.
The group is in a strong liquidity position with 648 million in cash and liquid Further details of arrangements relating to employee involvement are reserves and 500 million of undrawn committed bank facilities, provided on our website www.
com which are expected to be sufficient to fund its investment and cash flow needs at least until March 2010 in the normal course of Auditors business.
During the year the group raised 400 million via a In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the company sterling bond issue.
at the date when this report was approved: Severn Trent Water operates in an industry that is currently subject so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit to economic regulation rather than market competition.
Ofwat, the information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to set price limits that each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to it believes will enable the water companies to finance their have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any activities.
As a consequence the directors believe that the group is relevant audit information and to establish that the companys well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the auditors are aware of that information.
Relevant audit information means information needed by the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. preparing the annual report and accounts.
Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness to continue as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at this years AGM.
Annual General Meeting The reappointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the Audit The AGM of the company will be held at the International Committee, which will also be responsible for determining its audit Convention Centre, Broad Street, Birmingham B1 2EA at 2pm on fee on behalf of the directors.
The notice convening the meeting, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited also available on the companys website: www.
com Regulatory accounts for Severn Trent Water Limited are prepared and sent to the Water Services Regulatory Authority.
A copy of By order of the board these accounts will be available from the website of Severn Trent Water Limited www.
co. uk or on written request to the Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
There is no charge for this publication.
Going concern Fiona Smith The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to General Counsel and Company Secretary affect its future development, performance and position are set out 28 May 2009 in the Chief Executives review on page 5 and the business reviews of Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services on pages 7 to 16 and 17 to 19.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 38 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
