Severn Trent Water Final Business Plan 2010-15 CCWater like the way Severn Trents Natural England is pleased to have plan reflects customer priorities.
been involved with Severn Trent We value the transparent and open throughout the business planning consultations they have had with process and we very much value Sir James Perowne, Roger Owen, us and other stakeholders in our relationship with the company.
Consumer Council Natural England for Water developing the programme.
We have been encouraged by the commitment to maintaining and enhancing the environment, particularly for biodiversity and the development of more sustainable catchment management solutions.
Our Plan is aligned to our eight Key Strategic Intentions KSIs set We believe we have a high quality, out in our 25 year Strategic Direction Statement.
It has customers at the heart of it, in delivering the improvements they want for a holistic and balanced Final Business price they consider to be good value for money with the help of our Plan which has customers at its heart talented and committed workforce.
The plan has been put together in a holistic and balanced way and takes into account the interests of and has been produced directly from our business planning all our stakeholders.
It reflects the views of the wider stakeholder groups we consulted during its preparation.
We have engaged with the Consumer Council for Water, the Environment Agency, the Drinking We submitted our Final Business Plan Water Inspectorate and Natural England, sharing the results and outcomes of our plan and research.
We undertook extensive for 2010-15 to Ofwat on 7 April 2009. research into customer expectations and their willingness to pay for improvements as our plan developed.
The next steps in the business plan process will be for Ofwat to publish its draft determination of prices for consultation in July 2009 and final determination in November 2009.
Key improvements outlined in the Plan include: KSI Examples of key outputs planned for 2010-15 Providing a continuous Increased spending on our assets to supply of quality water Increase network resilience Ensure that the environmental and drinking water quality improvements achieved since privatisation are maintained Sustainable solutions through catchment management Dealing effectively Improving services by reducing sewer flooding with waste water Environmental improvements delivered through improving sewage treatment works Sustainable solutions for drainage Responding to Lowest possible bills rising by just 4% in real terms by the end of 2010-15 customers needs Improving the quality and speed of response when customers contact us Minimising our Taking into account carbon impacts when assessing quality and environmental improvements carbon footprint Having the lowest Delivery of continued improvements in efficiency, for both operating costs and capital expenditure, possible charges to keep bills down Having the right Maximising the benefits of our process, technology, workplace and structural changes, whilst skills to deliver retaining and upskilling the talent of our workforce Maintaining investor A plan financed to strike the right balance in keeping prices low for the long term and confidence maintaining investor confidence, including delivering a sustainable and progressive dividend policy Promoting an effective Continuing to work constructively with our regulators and government on ways in which the regulatory regulatory regime regime could be improved for customers and the environment Having a business plan that is realistic and robust 6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Water Our business is streamlined and organised around our three Our vision for Severn Trent Water is key processes: to be the best water and waste water water waste water company in the UK, achieving the customer relations highest standards, with the lowest Our strategic direction revolves around eight Key Strategic Intentions KSIs.
We focus on delivering continuously improving possible charges, through great people.
performance against 20 Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
With business aligned around driving up standards, driving down We provide water and sewerage costs and developing great people, we have been focusing on improving our operational performance on all fronts.
services to over 3.7 million We report on our performance against our KSIs and KPIs in the households and businesses across following pages.
the Midlands and mid Wales.
Turnover in Severn Trent Water was 1,324.9 million in 2008 09, up 4.7% on 2007 08.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional Thats over 8 million people.
Business highlights Profit 456.0m 2008: 456.4m before interest, tax and exceptional items Cash and facilities Severn Trent Water Cash and cash equivalents Committed facilities delivers 80% of group turnover 2009 648m 500m 1,148 million 1,154 million 2008 654m 500m Funded for at least the next two years Operating performance 2009 1,324.9m KPI performance in upper quartile 2009 14 2008 1,265.3m 2008 10 Turnover up 4.7% Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
