Governance Board of Directors Tony Ballance Bernard Bulkin Richard Davey BSc Hons MA Econ BS PhD FRSC FRSA FIE 67 BA 60 A C N R A N R PhD 44 E Tony joined the board on 2 October 2007.
Bernard joined the board on 1 January Richard joined the board as senior He joined Severn Trent Water as Director 2006.
He is Chairman of AEA Technology independent non-executive director on of Regulation and Competition in August Plc, Chairman of Swedish company 1 January 2006.
Prior to that he was an economic Chemrec AB and a non-executive director Chairman of London Capital Holdings Plc consultant in the utilities sector, working of Accelergy Corporation in California.
He and a non-executive director of Yorkshire as a Director for Stone and Webster is also a Venture Partner at Vantage Point, Building Society and Amlin Plc.
He also consultants and London Economics.
He an international venture capital firm and a served as a non-executive director of was formerly Chief Economist, Office of Commissioner on the UK Sustainable Freeserve Plc from 1999 to 2001 and of Water Services Ofwat.
In 2003 he Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance retired as Chief Scientist at BP Plc, where Society from 1996 to 2000.
The majority he had worked for 18 years.
of his executive career was spent in investment banking at N M Rothschild & Sons where he served in various roles including Head of Investment Banking.
Prior to that, he worked at various organisations including Merrill Lynch International Limited and Exco International Plc.
Martin Lamb Michael McKeon B aroness Noakes BSc MBA 49 MA CA 52 DBE LLB FCA 59 N E A N Martin joined the board on 29 February Michael joined the board on 13 December Sheila Noakes joined the board on 2008.
He has enjoyed a long career with 2005 as Finance Director.
She is the Senior IMI plc, an international engineering he was Group Finance Director of the Independent Director of Carpetright Plc business headquartered in Birmingham, buildings materials group Novar Plc.
He and a director of the Reuters Founder joining as a graduate engineer in 1985, worked for Rolls Royce Plc from 1997 to Share Company.
Sheila has also been appointed to its board in 1996, and 2000 in various senior roles including a non-executive director of ICI Plc and becoming Chief Executive in January 2001.
Finance Director of the Aerospace Group.
Hanson Plc, and a member of the Court He has extensive experience of managing He has extensive international business of the Bank of England.
She is a Fellow of and developing large engineering businesses experience, having worked overseas for the Institute of Chartered Accountants in in all parts of the world.
His strong CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and Price England and Wales and spent most of her commercial acumen, experience of Waterhouse.
Michael is a Chartered career in KPMG where she was a senior managing complex projects, and familiarity Accountant and a Member of the Institute partner until 2000. with current market pressures as a serving of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He Chief Executive leave him well placed to add was appointed a non-executive director of value to the Severn Trent business.
He holds The Merchants Trust Plc, with effect from a degree in Mechanical Engineering from 1 May 2008.
Imperial College London and an MBA from Cranfield Business School.
He is a former non-executive director of Spectris plc where he chaired the Remuneration Committee.
34 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board committees Management committee Audit Remuneration Executive R E A Committee Committee Committee Baroness Noakes C Richard Davey C Tony Wray C Alec Luhaste Dr Bernard Bulkin Dr Bernard Bulkin Tony Ballance Richard Martin Richard Davey Sir John Egan Nick Burraston Michael McKeon Kerry Porritt S Fiona Smith S Peter Gavan Alec Richmond Len Graziano Andy Smith Corporate Nominations C Myron Hrycyk Fiona Smith N Responsibility Committee Martin Kane Kerry Porritt S Committee Sir John Egan C Dr Bernard Bulkin C Dr Bernard Bulkin Senior independent General Counsel Sir John Egan Richard Davey non-executive and Company Gordon Fryett director Secretary Gordon Fryett Fiona Smith Tony Wray Richard Davey Martin Lamb Kerry Porritt S Baroness Noakes Tony Wray C Chairman S Secretary Non-executive director Fiona Smith S Sir John Egan Gordon Fryett Martin Kane MSc Econ BSc 69 55 BSc CEng CEnv MICE C N R C N MIWEM FIWO 56 E Sir John joined the board on 1 October Gordon has been appointed to the board Martin joined the board on 2 October 2007.
2004 and became Chairman on 1 January with effect from 1 July 2009.
Gordon has He has been Director of Customer Relations, 2005.
He is a director of Warwick Castle been Property Director at Tesco since March Severn Trent Water since May 2006.
He Park Trust Limited and Borwick Group 2006.
He has spent most of his career in joined Severn Trent Water in 1975, holding Limited and a non-executive director of Retail Operations as well as in a range of various posts including Head of Networks, Governance for Owners Group LLP.
Prior to his appointment Director of Engineering and roles in the previously Chairman of Inchcape plc and as Property Director, he was CEO of Tesco design, construction and operation of water Harrison Lovegrove & Co Limited.
Sir John Ireland from 2001 to 2006 and before that and waste water treatment plants, water worked in the motor industry until 1990 at he was Director of International Support distribution networks and sewerage systems.
General Motors, Massey Ferguson and from 1997 to 2001 where he co-ordinated He is also a board member of UK Water British Leyland, rising to become Chairman the development of Tesco businesses in Industry Research Limited and Utilities and and Chief Executive of Jaguar plc.
He was Central Europe and Asia.
He is an Alumnus Service Industries Training Limited.
Chief Executive of BAA plc from 1990 to of INSEAD.
1999 and Chairman of MEPC from 1998 to 2000.
He was also President of the Confederation of British Industry from 2002 to 2004.
Sir John was knighted in the Queens Birthday Honours List in 1986.
He is a deputy lieutenant of the County of Warwickshire and since September 2007, Chancellor of Coventry University.
Andy Smith Tony Wray BTech Hons 48 BSc Hons 47 E C E N Andy joined the board on 2 October 2007.
Tony joined the board on 7 March 2005.
He joined Severn Trent in January 2005 and He was appointed Chief Executive on was appointed Director of Water Services in 2 October 2007.
Prior to that, he was February 2007.
Prior to that he was a board Director of Networks at Eircom, the Republic member and Group HR Director with Boots.
He joined He has previously held senior management British Gas in 1983 and held various roles in engineering, HR and production with managerial positions.
With the establishment Pepsi-Cola International, Mars and BP.
of the gas transportation business, Transco, he became Director of Asset Management, then as National Operations Director, before being appointed to implement the merger integration of Lattice Transco and National Grid Group into National Grid Transco.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35
