Governance Risk assurance Risk management process cascading Company performance objectives risk map monitoring and reporting Board & filter Committees Business Executive risk maps Businesses & Committee Functions cut off filter Departments, Teams & Individuals Specific risk assessments e. g. safety asset project fraud process Risk Management Assurance Framework Severn Trent carried out a fundamental review of its approach to Severn Trent is building a robust governance framework based on risk management, which commenced around 18 months ago.
clear organisational structure and decision making, sound policies and standards, and assurance of the outcomes.
The board and The journey to implement the process started with our core other key stakeholders need a transparent methodology which business activities, and the company is now implementing the delivers and validates the outcome of activities.
approach throughout our substantial change programme in order to give a consistent approach to the management of risks across all The company expects roles to be performed in line with specific key programmes.
Employees performing their roles properly, preparing and reporting outcomes on time and to the required Our process includes both top down and bottom up elements and standard is a key component in our Assurance Framework.
The risk management process focuses on strategic risks managed by executive and senior The company is working to embed the compliance, verification and management, with a process for escalation of significant risks performance activities in Severn Trent.
These are within business identified at lower levels.
areas and sometimes within discrete functions.
These confirm that operational activities have been performed properly in the line.
The approach the company uses is objective driven, making this a useful tool for both business planning and performance management, Lastly, the company maintains an independent perspective on the and the company aims to increase the use of risk management overall framework by obtaining confirmation that the governance information within these processes.
In Severn Trent, this is obtained primarily from the internal audit function and the external auditor.
The use of graphical reporting presents the risk information in a simple and understandable format.
The reports include an In order to provide an appropriate understanding of how these assessment of the effectiveness of controls which allows responsibilities come together for Severn Trent, the company has management to focus its attention on those areas requiring the developed a description of the key elements over which assurance most improvement.
This is maintained by the Director of Internal Audit on behalf of the Executive.
On a six monthly basis, the Executive and Audit Committees receive a risk map highlighting the key risks faced by the group, together with A map details the areas over which Severn Trent has decided to a change in risk profile report illustrating how the risks have moved gain specific assurance.
These may vary from year to year.
The over the last six months including new risks identified, risks closed, criteria by which each area for assurance is selected are: changes in the assessment of financial impact or likelihood of the potentially damaging to reputation: risks, changes in the overall assessment of control effectiveness, material financial impact: and information on completed improvement actions and an overview linked to the corporate KPIs.
of key actions still in progress.
In addition, the board and other committees receive detailed information on specific risks identified Internal audit will confirm the details of the assurance provision throughout the year.
to cover: who is responsible: Principal Risks and Uncertainties what is the activity: and During the year, the board and the Executive and Audit Committees how is this recorded.
have received relevant reports to allow them to consider and Internal audit deliver an audit plan to confirm that key business monitor our key risks and uncertainties.
The key risk themes which risks are being mitigated.
It also delivers specific, tested opinions we are currently facing, and a high level summary of some of our on those areas for which it, as a function, is responsible.
responses to those risks, are described in the table on page 33.
More detailed information on specific financial risk factors can be found on pages 84 and 85.
Key to impacts F Financial E Environmental B Brand reputation H Health & Safety R Regulatory O Operational 32 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Achieve funding for the Group to meet business needs.
We have a diversified source of funds and have recently successfully raised 400m Financial through a sterling bond issue.
F, B, R, O Effectively manage counterparty exposure and risk for We have policies in place which limit the available counterparties and ensure a spread investments.
There is also regular monitoring of counterparties and investment performance.
Deliver robust, reliable and timely information to We have a defined process in place with clear ownership for activities and an Legal regulators and other relevant bodies.
established quality assurance process requiring business sign off on all information Regulatory submitted, together with independent audits by both internal and external auditors.
F, B, R Effectively manage compliance with existing and future We monitor actual and proposed changes in law and regulation and seek to ensure laws and regulations affecting our business operations.
that we change our processes to reflect any relevant requirements.
Achieve an acceptable final determination from Ofwat We have submitted our final business plan and will continue to work closely with Strategy for Severn Trent Water Limited.
As part of our business plan, we have formulated responses to a number and Growth of different aspects of this risk including deflation, reduced consumption and increased F, B, R bad debt.
Achieve sustainable benefits through the Severn Trent We are implementing a programme governance framework including risk and issue Water Limited change programme which includes management, dependency management and benefits tracking.
There is regular and elements such as managerial upskilling, office close monitoring of performance.
rationalisation and substantial technology changes.
Achieve the growth plans for our unregulated business.
We have strong, market leading products and good market knowledge, and we are establishing a local presence in our target markets.
We have reviewed our organisation design and implemented changes where appropriate.
In addition, there is a regular and close monitoring of performance.
Operational Achieve a zero by choice approach in relation to Health We have Health and Safety policies which are communicated across the and Safety issues.
organisation, including to our contractors.
We have defined systems and processes F, B, R, for the reporting, investigation and management of accidents and near misses.
There H, O, E is regular and close monitoring of performance, including audits.
Effectively maintain and improve our asset base to We have a programme of capital investment to maintain and improve our asset base, improve performance and operational resilience and together with a programme of asset inspection to identify and resolve potential meet customer demands.
We are investing to ensure that no community with a population greater than 30,000 is reliant on a single source of supply by the end of AMP5.
We plan to extend this programme to communities with populations between 20,000 and 30,000 during AMP6.
Effectively manage the supply chain particularly in view We are monitoring critical suppliers and developing contingency plans where risk of of the changing economic environment.
We have plans to reduce reliance on single sources of supply.
Provide robust, resilient and secure IT services to ensure We continuously review our policies, standards and processes in order to improve current day to day business operations can be carried performance.
We also have disaster recovery arrangements, a service continuity team out to an agreed level of service.
and third party disaster recovery capability.
Operate the business in a responsible way, including We have a corporate responsibility programme in place which is aligned to our Corporate changing customer and stakeholder behaviours towards business priorities.
We undertake a variety of awareness raising activities designed Responsibility water and waste water services to reduce water use and to further educate customers and the wider public on responsible water use, including F, B, R, O, E pollution events.
a leakage reduction and water efficiency awareness campaign and a campaign to reduce disposal of fats, oils and greases into the sewerage network.
Effectively manage our processes to achieve or exceed We have resilience built into our treatment plants and networks, together with relevant environmental standards.
monitoring and alarms in place on our key processes.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Risk area impacts Risk theme Response
