Business review Severn Trent Services Len Graziano President and Chief Executive Officer For example we have developed and patented TETRAFlex.
In 2008 09 we pursued our growth An enhancement to our TETRA brand of filtration products, TETRAFlex allows more flow to go through filters during peak strategy, reorganised our structure periods.
We have also developed TETRAFlumeFlow, a new low to support our strategy and performed pressure underdrain block which reduces the cost of installation and enhances the existing technology.
well across all three of our principal Developing new technologies at the forefront of water and business groups.
waste water solutions The global market for water and waste water is substantial and We have, for example, taken BALPURE, our patented system of growing at around 4% per year.
Although growth has slowed since ballast water treatment within ocean going vessels, from new design last year in the face of the global economic downturn, the to shipboard piloting and independent laboratory testing.
With the fundamental drivers: water scarcity, higher regulatory requirements, International Maritime Organisation IMO regulation driving ballast population growth and climate change remain strong.
water treatment coming into effect in January 2010, we believe that BALPURE has an exciting future.
Within this global growth business, we focus on the higher growth and higher margin market segments and geographies where our We also introduced VEGA, a new gas chlorinator vent exhaust particular products and services meet a significant need.
Launched in October 2008, this disposable non-hazardous way of keeping chlorine out of contained buildings has been well Focusing on our four key strategic initiatives received by the market.
Continuing the geographic expansion of our products and services Reorganising our structure to support our strategy We have been increasing our local presence in key areas around In order to support our growth strategy as effectively as possible, the world in order to reduce costs, improve service and maintain we reviewed and reorganised our structure around four major quality for our customers.
In China, for example, we converted our regions: the Americas, Europe, Middle East and North Africa and sales office into a registered foreign invested commercial enterprise Asia Pacific.
This will allow us to get closer to our customers and able to handle sales, purchasing, marketing and product assembly.
develop better solutions for them more quickly and cost effectively.
The new branch has already bid for and won its first filtration order In line with last years centralisation of product development, this year and we have also been sourcing some of our components in China we also consolidated our products group into one in order to better via this branch.
serve our customers and our markets, streamline our procedures and Established in 2007 08, our branch in Abu Dhabi has exceeded decision making and in turn be more efficient and effective.
our expected turnover this year and has also been organising local sourcing and assembly.
We have, for example, built a number Performing well across our three principal businesses of reverse osmosis units in Abu Dhabi for the Middle East market.
Water Purification Our Water Purification business had a strong year, with turnover Expanding the scope of our operating services around the world up 15%.
We have focused on expanding into new geographic territories, through a dedicated International Operating Services team which We continued to focus on advanced water and waste water is currently involved in a number of project proposals.
treatment technologies, building on our strong market positions in areas such as denitrification, arsenic removal and alternative We have also focused on expanding the scope of our work into disinfection technologies.
design, build and operate contracts and have won awards in both Italy and the UK this year.
In our seawater electrochlorination business, we won our first order for marine waste treatment technology, from South Korea.
We improved the technology this year, ahead of new regulatory Enhancing products and operations to improve our effectiveness requirements due in 2010 and have received third party certification.
and efficiency We continue to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of our We also received a multi-million dollar order for onsite hypochlorite products.
This year our product development group carried out generation at multiple sites in Abu Dhabi.
This is the first application extensive technology roadmapping for all our disinfection and of the technology to disinfect waste water effluent in the region.
This has allowed us to focus where we In our filtration business, we won a US$12 million order for have technology gaps and how best to fill them and also which of the Miami Dade Water and Sewer Department in Florida, US, our existing technologies need enhancing to meet future needs.
to provide deep bed filtration technology as part of a high level disinfection project designed to enable the Department to meet the rising demand for sustainable water resources in the face of an increasing population.
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Historic water treatment facility opens membrane filtration system which serves in Ho Chi Minh City the drinking water needs of 66,000 district residents, the facility supplies more Facing chronic water shortages, residents in than 1.3 million gallons 5 megalitres Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, had been using of potable water per day.
Its capacity is water transported in barges from a nearby scheduled to nearly double within about district until the opening of its first water one year.
The historic project increases treatment facility for processing salt water the availability and affordability of drinking into clean drinking water on 8 August 2008. water in a region where potable water Using Severn Trent Services UAT Series is scarce.
BW brackish water reverse osmosis For more detail the full case study can be viewed at: www.
com Building on our success in arsenic removal, we are expanding our commercial sector.
In the financial year, we restructured the technology into inorganic treatment.
In Florida for example, we won business to reduce costs and improve efficiency.
an order to remove iron and manganese.
During the year we won a 10 year contract with Yorkshire Water MicroDynamics, our patented microwave ultraviolet UV technology, and a three year contract with South Staffordshire Water for was piloted and then selected for the Kent County regional water analytical services.
We also won a prestigious award from the treatment facility in Delaware, US.
The UV system will replace Institution of Water Officers IWO for a new analytical method chlorine at the site, thereby reducing chemical use and simplifying of investigating pesticides in drinking water.
The systems flexibility was another attraction, In November 2008, we acquired a small technology company called it can be turned on and off in line with the sites peaks and troughs Cybersense.
As a result we can now offer our clients an enhanced in demand.
MicroDynamics has also been selected for a pilot in a service combining the speed of onsite sophisticated analysis tools Chicago facility and other proposals are in the pipeline.
Our product with the quality and reliability of our laboratory testing.
development team has been working on enhancing the system and we plan to introduce a new version of the technology in 2009 10.
Living up to our corporate responsibilities In Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, their first water treatment facility for We are committed to doing business in a responsible manner processing salt water into clean drinking water is using our reverse throughout Severn Trent Services.
osmosis membrane filtration system ROMFS.
It will help reduce We have maintained our focus on improving health and safety in all water shortages in the citys Tan Gio district.
In 2008 09, we succeeded in reducing the number of lost time incidents per 100,000 hours worked by 28%.
Operating Services Turnover at our Operating Services business increased 6%.
Severn Trent Services also achieved an 11% reduction in RIDDOR incidents.
We performed very well in the US, where we are one of the top tier suppliers with nearly 400 service contracts and a renewal rate of Our laboratories business is in the final phase of achieving 96%.
We won a three year contract to operate and manage a waste Occupational Health And Safety OHSAS 18001 certification.
All our water treatment plant in the city of Danville, Virginia building on last other UK and Italian operating services businesses now have this years contract win in Virginia, which was at the time a new territory accreditation.
Our UK meter installation unit Integra won a silver for us.
We were also successful in renewing a contract for Jackson award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Mississippi, valued at US$7 million per year for five years.
In Operating Services, our C2C joint venture started an apprenticeship In the UK, we continued the excellent performance of our Coast programme and achieved Investors in People accreditation.
to Coast Water C2C joint venture.
C2C serves some 1,500 UK In 2007 08, we commissioned an independent business wide Ministry of Defence sites in a 25 year 1 billion Private Finance employee engagement survey.
During 2008 09, we focused on Initiative contract that began in 2005. sharing the results of this survey with all employees and developing In addition, a large UK dairy has given board approval to Severn actions for improvement.
In 2009 10, we will carry out another Trent Services for two design, build and operate opportunities survey to measure the results of our actions.
We maintained our focus on reducing energy consumption.
In We were one of the first businesses to be awarded a water supply the US for example, we are producing Site Energy Management licence by Ofwat.
This year we have been working with a number Plans for the larger plants we operate.
To date, we have produced of large commercial customers and will be signing the first water five plans and they have all led to reductions in energy use and, supply contract in 2009 10.
This will ensure we are positioned in turn, costs.
at the forefront of competition as the market evolves.
Looking ahead We also had a very good year in Italy, where we are one of the We will continue to focus on implementing our growth strategy.
We won a number of new contracts, Building on the successes of this first year of implementation, we including a 20 year 55 million design, build and operate contract will maintain our focus on our four key strategic initiatives, continue for a waste treatment plant.
to improve cost control and efficiency in all our businesses and look Building on our strengths in the US, UK and Italy, we are also to make the most of opportunities to improve and extend our focusing on expanding Operating Services in other countries.
technologies and solutions for our customers around the world.
This year we bid and are in the final positions for a number of contracts in Ireland and the Middle East.
Len Graziano President and Chief Executive Officer Analytical Services Severn Trent Services Turnover in Analytical Services was 32.4 million, with good performance in the utility sector despite less demand in the Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
