Business review Severn Trent Water Saving water in schools water use.
Following the audit we devise Our water efficiency plans include working a programme of work that repairs faulty with our customers to reduce water usage equipment in the school and fits new water by using water more effectively and efficient devices wherever it is possible and eliminating waste.
This enables them to economic to do so.
Typical water usage save money and reduce impact on the reduction is around 15% and any environment.
In 2008 09 we have been investment in equipment is generally paid working with schools to audit their water back in 19 months.
To date we have use, identify opportunities to save water completed 169 audits of our 600 school and provide educational resources to help programme, which will end in March 2010. change attitudes and behaviours towards For further information on this aspect of our business, visit www.
com  25,000 properties experienced unplanned interruptions to supply As we progress into the final year of on this measure, compared to around 195,000 properties in 2007 08 due to exceptional weather that year.
This represents AMP4, the results and performance less than 1% of the properties connected to our network, compared we have delivered over the past 12 to 5.7% in 2007 08.
By analysing the problems we had in 2007, we have been able months positions us well for the future.
to focus on improving our operational procedures and response We have performed well in our KPIs times and aim to continue to look for ways to drive up our performance in this area.
and we continue to improve in line with Low pressure our commitment to highest standards, We have installed 4,000 permanent pressure loggers throughout lowest possible charges and great people.
our distribution network to identify more points of low pressure and their root causes.
Focus on Corporate responsibility In the short term, as expected, this has resulted in us identifying Corporate responsibility CR must be at the heart of the way more properties at risk, putting pressure on our KPI performance.
we develop, manage and operate for long term sustainable benefit This year we have identified and rectified over 9,000 properties and the way we strive for highest standards, lowest possible at risk.
We have 4,142 properties on the register and we intend charges and great people.
In 2008 09, we focused on aligning to address these in the coming year.
This compares to 1,546 our CR activities even more closely to the fundamental objectives properties in 2007 08 and represents around 0.12% of the of our business, our eight Key Strategic Intentions KSIs.
all areas of our business are linked closely to our CR agenda we have not included a separate section in this review.
We do, Maintaining security of supply however, recognise that a number of our stakeholders are We replaced our raw water storage measure with a new security particularly interested in understanding more about some of the of supply KPI.
This is a more complete measure of our ability to key CR issues we are addressing.
We have therefore produced supply treated water to customers as opposed to the amount of a separate CR summary report which is available from our raw water storage we have and is based on the Ofwat security website, alongside additional online data and information.
We remain on track to deliver in line with our written undertaking to Focus on highest standards Ofwat on Security of Supply Index and recorded a performance this This first section looks at how we have been improving and year of 98. performing in water, waste and customer service.
We are making good progress on our major scheme at Frankley Water Treatment Works, due to be commissioned in autumn 2009.
KSI: providing a continuous supply of quality water The scheme will enable us to pump up to 120 megalitres a day We have a number of projects and also KPIs that contribute to Ml d from the river Severn into the works.
ensuring we have the highest standards in our water services.
Meeting our leakage target Water quality Our leakage was 492 Ml d in 2008 09.
For the second year This year we continued to achieve one of the best records in the running and despite the coldest winter for eight years, we have met industry at 99.98% compliance with the regulatory standards set our leakage target of 500 Ml d set by Ofwat.
In 2008 09, we found by the Drinking Water Inspectorate.
and fixed 39,000 leaks, a similar number to 2007 08.
Our KPI now measures compliance with regulatory samples taken With increased focus on water efficiency, being able to reduce along the whole process from reservoir to tap.
This is a more leakage becomes ever more important for our customers, for the challenging measure which enables us to gain a broader and deeper environment and for our business.
We have succeeded as a result understanding and allow us to drive water quality even higher of better network maintenance, better response times to finding and through more effective long term solutions.
fixing leaks and a better understanding of where water is used.
Each year we invest in maintaining, repairing and modernising our Unplanned interruptions extensive water network, some of which is over 100 years old.
In We significantly improved our KPI performance from last year by AMP4 we set a target of 1,100 km of mains to be renewed over five reducing the number of unplanned interruptions by 67% after years.
We have already achieved this target and are planning to excluding the effect of flooding at The Mythe Water Treatment deliver 1,230 km at a cost of 3% more than the amount assumed Works in July 2007.
Our KPI for unplanned interruptions to supply in the Ofwat determination.
is based on Ofwats DG3 level of service.
In 2008 09, around 10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Putting fats, oils and grease to good use that may usually put these blockage At the heart of our vision for corporate causing substances down the drain.
The responsibility are projects that benefit our FOG collected is used for biofuel and the communities, environment, customers and money generated reinvested by CSV.
A great example is our project goal is a reduction in the number of sewer with the charity Community Service blockages in this area.
This will reduce Volunteers CSV Grease Lightening.
This community impact, our costs and help trial project involves doorstep collections us to keep our bills as low as possible for of fats, oils and grease FOG from homes all customers.
Improving flood protection at our sites Reduced sewer flooding Following the floods in 2007, we have provided additional flood We performed better than last year against our KPI measure for protection at four water treatment sites.
At The Mythe Water sewer flooding other causes per 1,000 properties.
There is still Treatment Works, the temporary flood barriers remain in place more to do and we have a specific improvement plan for this area, while we seek planning permission for permanent flood defences.
including encouraging our customers not to put fats, oils and grease We are also seeking planning permission for an additional pipeline down the drain as well as carrying out targeted cleansing of our to bring extra supply into the Gloucester area.
We continue to liaise network.
Sewer flooding can also be caused by overloaded sewers.
closely with the Gloucestershire scrutiny committee.
Properties flooded in this way are put onto flooding registers and solutions are investigated.
In agreement with Ofwat, we have now Promoting the responsible use of water bought our methodology in line with the rest of the water industry and as a result the number of properties on the register in our region Water efficiency plays a key part in our water resources planning.
has come down significantly in 2008 09.
In addition to saving water in our own business, we have worked on helping our customers reduce the water they use.
For example, To tackle the many complexities surrounding flooding in the most we have run workshops with our major use customers to help them effective way, we work closely with all concerned, including local identify ways to save water and reduce their bills.
We also have a authorities, the community and the Environment Agency.
range of programmes to provide schools and households with water saving devices and water saving advice, such as our Be Smart Investing in waste water improvements education programme.
Through this scheme, employees work as We invest heavily in every aspect of our waste water process and mentors with 50 schools each year using an education pack network.
In 2008 09, we invested 300 million in this part of focused on water efficiency.
our business and currently have around 600 schemes underway.
Minworth Sewage Treatment Works is our biggest ongoing scheme KSI: Dealing effectively with waste water and one of the largest in the industry.
The work has progressed well Waste water standards have been improving over the last year and is nearing completion and is intended to enable us to achieve and the KPIs and investments shown below are key examples of higher standards more efficiently ahead of the new effluent standards our progress.
which come into force in March 2010.
Other examples include improvements at Leicester, Stoke-on-Trent and Derby Sewage Looking after the environment Treatment Works as well as the completion of our 18 million We place great emphasis on our environmental responsibilities.
investment to build a 21st century sewer network for Kenilworth.
How we abstract water, manage waste water discharges, operate We are working closely with government and agencies on the over 1,000 sewage treatment sites, 54,000 km of sewers, over requirement for us to take ownership of private sewers in our region.
3,600 sewage pumping stations and how we manage resources This will grow our sewer network by around 50%.
all have a huge potential impact on the local environment.
We have a responsibility to make the best use of our resources.
KSI: Minimising our carbon footprint Responsible use of energy 100% compliance at our sewage treatment works Our net energy use KPI measures how much energy net of In 2008, all our sewage treatment works again complied with the renewable energy generated by us we consume per megalitre of discharge consents issued to them by the Environment Agency.
This water supplied or waste water treated.
Our net energy use remained consistently high level of compliance is amongst the best in the broadly in line with last year, at 622 kWh Ml during this year.
industry and demonstrates our continuously improving performance Although we have succeeded in continuing to decrease our energy in line with compliance standards that get higher year after year.
use, our generation of renewable energy was held back, notably at Minworth Sewage Treatment Works, where our investment in Fewer pollution incidents improving effluent quality at the site has reduced the amount of For pollution incidents, we achieved 0.08 per 1,000 properties in biogas we have been able to produce there this year.
Pollution incidents in this calendar year were significantly down 25% to 313, from 417 in 2007.
Of the total recorded, eight were in the more serious categories 1 and 2 categorised by the Environment Agency, compared with 13 in 2007.
In line with the 13 point plan we agreed with the Environment Agency and Ofwat to improve our environmental performance in relation to pollution, we have heightened awareness and improved our processes in order to be able to prevent, identify and tackle pollution incidents more quickly and effectively.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Business review Severn Trent Water Renewable energy We have invested substantial time and resource into both these methods and We have ambitious plans to expand our are confident of their potential to help us approach to renewable energy and have significantly increase our generation of a target to generate 30% of our energy from renewable energy.
We intend to have renewable sources by 2013.
The measures our first energy crop digester operational to achieve this include increasing use of our by April 2010. two established methods: hydro power and combined heat and power CHP using biogas from our sewage treatment works.
We are also developing new methods: wind energy and biomass energy crops.
In 2008 09, we undertook a major piece of work to calculate our This year we fitted 44,331 meters through our free meter option carbon emissions for the AMP4 period and on into AMP5.
Despite scheme which we continue to promote to our customers.
the continued upward pressures of providing water to more people In addition, we have invested in our website to improve it further to and meeting higher water quality standards which requires more become a genuine customer service centre.
The facility to manage energy, when we take into account both our investment in your account online is now live, enabling customers to quickly and renewable technologies and energy efficiency, we have been easily view and pay bills, update details, submit meter readings and successful in avoiding significant growth in energy consumption much more at a time thats convenient for them.
This is part of our over the last five years.
ambition to enable our customers to interact with us whenever they Looking ahead to the next AMP where we face continued upward need to and in whichever way best suits them email, website, pressures, our net greenhouse gas emissions are forecast to remain phone, letter or text message.
virtually unchanged between 2009 10 and 2014 15, as a result Looking ahead, our focus will be to keep improving.
We want to of our energy strategy.
continue getting more out of our systems and we want our people to continue getting better and better at what they do.
KSI: Responding to customers needs Customer service standards have also seen very positive Addressing the needs of vulnerable customers improvements in the last 12 months.
While we actively pursue those who are able but unwilling to pay their bills, we offer flexibility to those who genuinely struggle to pay.
Resolving jobs first time As a result of the downturn in the economy, we are finding more Our aim is to resolve jobs on the customers first call to us.
We have created a dedicated team to actively 2008 09 we achieved 96% first time job resolution, compared seek out customers who might need help, working together with with 85% in 2007 08. organisations such as the Citizens Advice Bureau and Age Concern.
This performance improvement was delivered through our 24 7 The Severn Trent Trust Fund is an independent trust set up to help Customer Operations Service Centre at Coventry and was based customers in serious financial hardship.
The amount of money upon improved customer service and operational processes.
in the Trust Fund has increased this year by 1 million to 5.5 million.
We also continue to promote our WaterSure tariff to Building on last years progress, we continued to improve our cap charges for vulnerable customers who have a water meter.
performance in customer service and refine our processes to find and fix operational problems as quickly and effectively as possible Along with the rest of the water industry we have teamed up with and we are now achieving upper quartile performance.
the Home Office and local police constabularies in supporting their distraction burglary initiative.
We know that bogus callers use water Reducing customer complaints companies as a reason to gain entry to peoples homes and we We succeeded in reducing written complaints by 41%, from continue to promote our password protection scheme to all of our 45,710 in 2007 08 to 27,066 in 2008 09.
This is based on customers to reassure them they can check the genuine identity written customer complaints per 1,000 properties, and improves of doorstep callers at anytime.
on last years reduction of 34%.
New connections Better call handling Our new connections team manages, from application to delivery, In 2008 09 we have achieved 88% for our first time call resolution the connections of customers to water and waste water services.
for billing, improving on last years results of 85%.
We are developing In 2008 09 the economic climate has resulted in a decline in the the capability of all our teams through a comprehensive upskilling level of activity undertaken.
This has been most significant in the programme, coupled with our continuous improvement programme.
provision of services to developers.
In response to these external pressures we have rationalised our department to a single operating Improving all customer service standards base at our offices in Leicester Water Centre.
These changes Alongside our KPI performance measures we have also improved continue to build upon improvements in our performance, with our performance across Ofwats DG measures, achieving better connections completed within 21 working days increasing from results in DG6 response to written billing queries, DG7 response 86% in 2007 08 to 90% in 2008 09. to written complaints, DG8 meter readings and DG9 customer satisfaction with telephone calls.
12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Developing a sustainable service for customers Our capex gross vs final determination KPI measures our performance on managing the financial aspects of the delivery of Serving customers also means looking after their long term interests our investment programme.
This measures the percentage variance as well as their immediate concerns.
We continue to maintain the between our capital expenditure to meet our obligations for AMP4 serviceability of our assets.
This means carrying out the work and Ofwats final determination.
necessary to make sure our water and sewerage systems deliver reliable service in the future for customers and the environment.
This is a continuation of our work in 2007 08 to smooth the so called It takes into consideration above ground and below ground water investment rollercoaster, where investment rises steeply in years two, and sewerage assets.
Our most recent assessment shows that we three and four of the AMP cycle before falling off sharply in year five.
have made progress, and we aim to continue to do so.
Smoothing this out so that there is a steady amount of investment throughout the five years is beneficial for our contractors, because it Focus on lowest charges allows them to plan their resources more easily and cost effectively, We are committed to keep bills as low as possible for our and for us, because we can gain from efficiencies.
Managing our operational and capital costs is a Whilst we continue to be on track to meet our regulatory obligations key contributor to this.
and capital expenditure targets in monetary terms, the recent rapid reduction in COPI is likely to lead to a lower than anticipated KSI: Having the lowest possible charges regulatory capital value cap as we proceed into the final year of Financial performance AMP4.
We remain focused on the successful delivery of the The past year has seen an unprecedented period of disruption to absolute levels of expenditure previously announced, although this financial markets, leading to the so called credit crunch and wider may result in an overall efficiency of less than the previously economic recession.
The first half of the year saw increased RPI announced 6%.
inflation, peaking at 5% in September, with a rapid fall in the second As we move into the final year of AMP4, we continue to progress a half.
Annual RPI inflation at March 2009 was negative 0.4%.
number of return enhancing investments that will provide value over This volatility has presented a number of challenges.
The economics the longer term.
These include further renewable energy generation, of the Ofwat regulatory framework are explicitly linked to RPI, with the early development of capital plans for AMP5 and the new Ofwats final determination for both total opex and capex set in Severn Trent Centre in Coventry.
In all cases, our focus is on 2002 03 prices and adjusted by the relevant inflation index each delivering sustainable efficiencies, lowering the cost of our year RPI for opex, COPI, a construction price index, for capex.
operations and therefore providing value for our customers.
We faced rising costs in the first half of the year which we worked Managing our operating costs hard to contain, while seeking to obtain value from falling rates in the latter half.
In a business such as Severn Trent Water where Despite the economic pressures, we remain on track with our opex there are long lead times on procured items, particularly on the vs final determination KPI, which measures the variance between capital investment programme, this challenge has been difficult.
our latest formal forecast of operating costs and Ofwats final Over the short term, therefore, our cost base does not quickly follow determination for AMP4.
The recent rapid reduction in RPI has the headline RPI or COPI index.
led to a lower than anticipated baseline final determination for 2008 09, but we have delivered an outcome this year that is in line with the absolute levels of expenditure previously targeted.
Investing in our network Year after year, we invest in improving the quality, resilience As we proceed into the final year of AMP4, the recent rapid and maintenance of our network.
During 2008 09, we invested reduction in RPI is likely to have a significant negative impact on 130 million net of grants and contributions received in the anticipated baseline final determination.
We have however maintaining our infrastructure network.
Capital expenditure, accelerated some of our improvement plans and expect to incur excluding spending on infrastructure maintenance and net of around 20 million of restructuring costs in 2009 10 which will grants and contributions received, was 476 million.
Gross capital deliver around 5 million of additional operating cost savings in expenditure including infrastructure maintenance expenditure 2009 10 beyond our previous plans and further cost efficiencies in increased to 635 million.
We remain focused on the successful delivery of our plans and we continue our efforts to identify and pursue additional We are meeting our obligations on investments and making them opportunities in this lower inflation environment.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13 Business review Severn Trent Water Capital Process Quality This is one of the recommendations of the Cave Review.
Cave also recommends the separation of retail activity and retail competition Our capital process quality KPI is now in place and is working well.
We believe that retail competition is only likely We achieved zero defects on handover per 100,000 spend, a to bring substantial benefits if it is coupled with competition for reduction on last years 0.03. resources and should not therefore be pursued as an end in itself.
The capital process quality measure assesses our delivery of high We have also spoken at events and responded to consultation quality services.
documents on a wide range of regulatory and competition issues with the aim of encouraging the development of the framework to Cost to serve a property meet the new challenges facing the industry.
Our KPI, cost to serve per property, measures the total cost including operating costs, depreciation, infrastructure renewals and We continue to engage with the Environment Agency to explore third party costs associated with serving a single property.
During the trade-offs between the environmental benefits of improving 2008 09, we continued to maintain a cost base that supports our river water quality and the increased energy use this improvement position of having some of the lowest bills in the industry.
Our aim is to safeguard the needs of the environment and address climate change while keeping our bills as low as possible Managing trade debt for our customers.
We continue to manage our trade debt as efficiently as possible.
Despite the downturn in the economy, our debtor days performance KSI: Maintaining investor confidence improved from 37.4 days in 2007 08 to 33.1 days.
This The interests of our customers and our investors are inextricably improvement is a result of enhancements made to our debt linked, we need access to finance to maintain and improve our management process, including more customers signing up to our services to customers, and lower financing costs mean lower bills.
water direct scheme to make payments directly from their benefits In the current economic environment, both customers and investors and an increase in the range and volume of outbound message are placing increasing value on stability.
campaigns encouraging customers in debt to contact us and agree payment plans.
As we look forward, the continuing large capital investment programme will drive further borrowing requirements, with our Despite our improved debtor days performance overall, the Final Business Plan anticipating a borrowing requirement of around challenging economic conditions have seen an increase in customer 200 million a year on average over AMP5.
The future visibility insolvencies and greater difficulty in collecting debt over one year old.
of returns and cash flow are important in sustaining investor As a result, we increased our bad debt charge and it now represents confidence in Severn Trent Water and the wider water sector.
A key around 2.3% of turnover, up from around 1.9% last year.
element in this is the setting of an appropriate cost of capital which ensures that water remains sufficiently attractive over the long term KSI: Promoting an effective regulatory regime to both debt and equity investors to secure financing for our Performance against our regulatory obligations planned investment programme.
Our Final Business Plan assumes In 2008 09, we improved our performance against our regulatory a cost of capital of 5.0% real, post tax, consistent with maintaining obligations KPI, reducing the number of areas with significant an appropriate credit rating to allow the company to raise the funds issues to 10%.
This was a significant improvement on the 15% it requires to finance future investment at a reasonable rate and we achieved in 2007 08. deliver an appropriate return to equity investors.
The component parts of the assumed cost of capital are real post tax cost of Promoting effective regulation equity of 7.7% AMP4 7.7%, real post tax cost of debt of 3.3% We have played an active part in developments in the regulatory AMP4 3.0% and 60% gearing AMP4 55%.
framework and been active in supporting and exploring the The successful execution of our plans in the current AMP4 period, development of competition in the industry.
We have engaged with and the basis of our PR09 Final Business Plan submission to Ofwat the Cave Review on Competition and Innovation and the Walker underpin our ability to: Review of Charges.
In particular, we believe a competition model based on water trading could work and we are currently looking at deliver a sustainable and progressive dividend to our equity how this might be developed in order to help address the balance investors, and of water supply and demand on a national basis.
This may help to maintain an appropriate financial structure, including sustaining reduce the need for additional infrastructure in some parts of the a strong investment grade credit rating, which can absorb the country where water supplies are low and therefore keep costs as impact of business cycle changes and enable the funding of our low as possible for all customers.
14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Coventry is undergoing a 9.4 billion transformation and Severn Trent is a key part of our exciting future.
Councillor Gary Ridley, cabinet member for city development Focus on great people Simple processes that work KSI: Having the right skills to deliver We have introduced lean management practices across our water, waste water and other business areas.
As a result, our people, in We are committed to improving continuously the engagement, water treatment works, sewage depots, call centres, have been skills and working environment of our people.
Below are examples able to connect what they do on a day by day basis to our overall of how our work programmes and KPIs contribute to improvements strategic direction and KPIs.
And critically, they have been given in this area.
the encouragement, training and tools to start making their own improvements with the support of their managers.
This in turn has Increasing employee motivation resulted in cost reductions, improvements in customer service and In 2008 09, we achieved our stretching KPI employee motivation higher engagement levels among our workforce.
target of 83% improving on last years 77%.
We measure this KPI through an annual employee survey and three mini surveys to gain We are identifying and fixing issues faster, more efficiently and a clear ongoing measure of staff morale and motivation.
more fundamentally, getting more things right first time, eliminating waste from our processes.
As a result, our performance is This excellent performance has been achieved in a year of improving, on interruptions to supply, on leakages, on reducing continued emphasis on the key enablers that drive our commitment energy use and more.
To date, around 1,500 of our 5,624 people to highest standards, lowest possible charges and great people.
have been introduced to the tools and techniques and are now These enablers are upskilling, simple processes that work, an using them in their day to day work.
Building on our successes this improved workplace, improved technology that works, and being year, we will continue to invest in our safer, better, faster way of paid for doing the right things for our customers.
We are developing lean change champions and an academy of experts to help ensure this way of Developing the skills of our people working continues to be our way of working.
Alongside our training We have focused on establishing one way of working for all in process improvement we continue to invest in developing the our people and giving everyone the encouragement, tools and technical and professional qualifications of our people through techniques to work that way.
To this end, we have been increasing apprenticeships and continuous learning.
the skills of our managers and of the workforce.
We have formal succession and talent management reviews through An improved workplace the year.
This process reaches across the organisation so that we can We are investing in our workplace to reflect the quality of the way identify and develop talent to help people achieve their potential.
we work, creating great environments for great people.
2 Our property portfolio includes 7,000 sites across the 21,000 km Improving our management skills Severn Trent Water region.
As reported last year, we have been In 2008, we launched the Line Manager Journey to clarify roles working to a strategy of creating a portfolio of workspace for the and equip managers with the right skills, tools and techniques to be business at the right cost, the right quality, of the right amount in able to get the best out of their teams.
From the Chief Executive to the right location and held for the right period of time.
the most junior manager, all our managers now have one common process of managing performance.
This includes the development of the new Severn Trent Centre in Coventry, which is progressing well, with a number of key We have launched a leadership model and rolled out a behavioural milestones being achieved in 2008 09.
Severn Trent Centre is part model for all employees.
It is part of our commitment to develop a of the programme of workplace improvements to set new standards modern workplace, where people treat each other in a supportive, for our working environments and with plans to implement them adult to adult way and share and develop improvement plans to across all of our remaining sites.
achieve both business and personal goals.
Improved technology that works Creating a diverse workforce In 2008 09, we aligned our IT investment to our eight KSIs and We are committed to improving the diversity of our workforce.
focused it on helping us provide our day to day business services Building on the work we have already done, in 2008 we set up a more efficiently and effectively.
We also reorganised the IT team Diversity Working Group and developed an action plan in line with around service delivery, development and strategy on the supply our stated belief that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor side and around our core business groups on the demand side.
During the year we commissioned some benchmarking work to better understand our diversity performance The key objective is to ensure that IT supports our business as and identify areas for improvement.
Our key diversity statistics are effectively as possible.
To this end, we are investing in technology available on our website and in our Corporate Responsibility to improve key processes that enable us to work better together and Summary report.
improve our performance in water, waste water, customer relations and our finance, HR and procurement functions.
A key element of Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15 Business review Severn Trent Water Above all, we intend to make sure we are constantly looking at the long term stewardship of the business to ensure we continuously improve standards, keep on lowering costs and further develop our great people in the years ahead.
this investment is our SAP programme and the process Safety for suppliers improvement it will deliver.
We have completed the detailed design During the year, we held five supply chain forums for health and for this programme and have begun the implementation phase.
We ran three for contractor health We are also looking at how to implement new technology to support and safety, one at the quality working day for suppliers and one for a far more flexible and mobile workforce and set of working excavation contractors on the risks of high voltage cable strikes.
practices, so that our people can work as effectively as possible Over 100 supplier companies have attended one or more of these from wherever they need to be.
Improving health and safety Working as one team with our suppliers Creating a safe place to work is at the heart of our commitment to We are investing in ever stronger relationships with our contractors creating a great place to work.
We continually focus on improving and suppliers.
We aim to manage the whole supply chain safety, quality and standards across the organisation.
responsibly, from suppliers through to customers.
We make sure we are working with responsible suppliers, based on Reducing lost time incidents their health and safety, environment, ethics and human rights track In 2008 09, we improved our performance on our health and record.
We are also looking at identifying areas where our suppliers safety KPI of lost time incidents per 100,000 hours by 30% will be able to help us achieve some of our strategic objectives, down to 0.43, compared with 0.61 in 2007 08.
In achieving such as reducing our carbon footprint.
this significant improvement, we beat our measure of 0.51.
Our award winning two year supply chain management programme Our RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous with Nottingham Trent University, draws participants from throughout Occurrences Regulations rate is 0.33, a 39% improvement our business and our contractors and suppliers.
The programme allows on our 2007 08 rate of 0.54. our employees, contractors and suppliers to work together on areas of joint interest, in a positive environment to deliver business benefits.
Demonstrating safety improvement plans Key outputs from this programme have already been implemented in Last year, we set out a 10 point strategy plan on safety, quality the company this year or are part of our strategy around AMP5.
and standards that are important to us.
This year, we have been cascading the plan through the organisation, working closely with Looking ahead line managers and teams to produce their own safety improvement We intend to continue to deliver on our promises and to build on action plans reflecting the 10 points.
the wide ranging performance improvements we have achieved in Our Safe and Unsafe Acts behaviour management system is very 2008 09 against our 20 KPIs and in line with our eight KSIs.
much an active part of the way we build behavioural safety into our We believe we have submitted a high quality Final Business Plan everyday business.
Work in this area is active and continuing well for PR09 that balances the interests of all stakeholders: customers, with more safety discussions taking place.
employees, suppliers, economic and environmental regulators, and In 2008 09, we had four British Safety Council audits at a variety investors.
In the coming months, we look forward to continuing of facilities.
One site received five stars, the highest grade, and our preparations for AMP5, including working towards final three received four stars.
We also entered 19 of our business areas determination of our Plan.
for Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents safety awards.
We intend to continue working closely with everyone concerned on 17 business areas received a range of awards, with an overall regulatory reforms, notably competition and the adoption of private company Gold Award for safety improvements.
We welcome these changes and will make sure we are in the best position to address these reforms for our customers and Comprehensive site safety review our shareholders.
We completed a comprehensive health and safety process review of the engineering and operational assets at all our water and waste In these challenging economic times where quality, prudence and water sites in 2007 08.
In total we surveyed 6,646 sites.
During long term thinking are at a premium, we aim to apply our robust 2008 09, we carried out a wide range of improvements prioritising funding strategy in order to continue securing the finance we need work based on the level of risk.
to fund investment over the next year and beyond.
Our engineering standards organisation continues to look at asset Above all, we intend to make sure we are constantly looking at the safety.
We have been working on more unified standards for the long term stewardship of the business to ensure we continuously engineering, safety and design of our future assets.
A substantial improve standards, keep on lowering costs and further develop proportion of the new design templates for AMP5 contracts are our great people in the years ahead.
Tony Wray Chief Executive Severn Trent Water 16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Severn Trent Services Severn Trent Services We have a clear strategy for growth Our Severn Trent Services business is We are implementing a strategy for growth, building on our brand one of the worlds leading suppliers of recognition and reputation, our strong market presence, our global scale and financial position and our advanced technologies.
water and waste water treatment To achieve our growth objectives we are focusing on four key solutions.
We operate at the forefront strategic initiatives.
First, to continue the geographic expansion of our products and services.
Second, to expand the scope of of new water technology, are known our operating services in both our home countries and other international markets.
Third, to enhance products and operations around the world for our quality, to improve our effectiveness and efficiency.
And fourth, we aim reliability and stability and enjoy a to continue to develop new technologies that are at the forefront of water and waste water treatment solutions.
strong position in our chosen markets.
Turnover in Severn Trent Services was 339.3m in 2008 09, up 8.4% on 2007 08.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional We have three principal business groups items was 30.5 million, up 14.7%.
Profit before interest Our three principal business groups are Water Purification, and tax for our three principal business groups was up 17.4%.
Operating Services and Analytical Services.
Water Purification is a Turnover for these businesses was up 0.5% to 319.0 million.
leader in developing advanced technologies and products focused on water and waste water disinfection, filtration, arsenic removal On 13 May 2009, consistent with our strategic aim of and marine offshore waste water treatment.
Operating Services geographic expansion of our products and services into selected is a leader in managing and maintaining water and waste water markets, we completed the acquisition of PS Apliclor S. A. treatment plants and networks around the world.
Analytical a small assembly and distribution business in Spain.
Services is a leader in UK environmental water testing services.
Business highlights Profit 30.5m 2008: 26.6m before interest, tax and exceptional items Severn Trent Services Profit for our three principal delivers 20% of business groups group turnover 17.4% before interest, tax and exceptional items and at constant exchange rates 2009 339.3m 2008 313.0m Turnover up 8.4% Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
