Quick read Our business at a glance At Severn Trent, we are focused on water.
We are a FTSE 100 company, with two complementary businesses: Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
Severn Trent Water Severn Trent Water provides high quality Our prices Our vision for the future water and sewerage services to over Every five years, Ofwat, our economic In 2007, each water company produced 3.7 million households and businesses regulator, sets annual price limits for each a 25 year Strategic Direction Statement for across the Midlands and mid Wales.
Our current price limits the years 2010-35.
This forms the key were set in 2004 for the period 2005-10 foundation for the long term direction and Key strengths: the AMP4 period.
Our new price limits for development of the companies.
The full we have among the lowest bills for the period 2010-15 the AMP5 period will report can be found on our website customers in the UK industry be set in late 2009 see our final business www.
co. uk sds we provide drinking water and waste plan on page 6.
Competition water quality above UK industry average Competition currently only exists for streamlined business delivering against Our performance business customers who use 50 megalitres 20 Key Performance Indicators Each water company submits an annual or more of water, per annum.
Ways commitment to long term responsible return the June return to Ofwat covering to increase competition in the water stewardship of the business, to the its activities.
This is the primary source of industry are being discussed.
To see how environment, customers and the regulatory information and enables Ofwat were involved, please turn to page 14 communities in which we live and work to monitor and compare the performance of this report.
Our industry Water quality in England and Wales is The water industry in England and Wales regulated by the Drinking Water invests more than 3 billion a year and Inspectorate.
Water abstraction, river employs over 27,000 people.
There are 10 pollution and flooding are regulated by water and sewerage companies in England the Environment Agency.
Severn Trent Services Severn Trent Services is one of the worlds continually innovating to develop Its growth strategy is focused on four key leading suppliers of water and waste water advanced technologies strategic initiatives: continue the geographic treatment solutions to an increasing a track record of growth and cost control expansion of products and services, number of utilities, municipalities and expand the scope of operating services Severn Trent Services has three principal commercial customers.
around the world, enhance products and business groups: Water Purification, operations to improve effectiveness and Key strengths: Operating Services and Analytical Services.
efficiency and continue to develop new Water Purification is a leader in developing focused growth strategy technologies that are at the forefront of advanced technologies and products recognised around the world for quality, water and waste water solutions.
focused on disinfection, filtration and reliability and stability adsorption.
Operating Services is a leader in For a review of Severn Trent Services, go a leader in high growth, high margin managing and maintaining water and waste to page 17.
You can also find out more at markets such as disinfection, filtration, water treatment plants and networks around www.
com arsenic removal and marine offshore the world.
Analytical Services is a leader in waste water treatment UK environmental water testing services.
2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Turnover 1,324.9m before elimination of intra group sales % of group turnover 80% Employees 5,624 Severn Trent Waters region stretches from For a review of Severn mid Wales to Rutland and from the Bristol Channel to the Humber.
We deliver nearly Trent Water, go to page 7.
2 billion litres of water a day to homes and You can also find out more businesses through 46,000 km of pipes.
A further 54,000 km of sewers take waste at www.
co. uk water away to over 1,000 sewage works.
Turnover 339.3m before elimination of intra group sales % of group turnover 20% Employees 3,120 Headquartered in the US, Severn Trent Services has a growing presence in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
