34 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Principal activity Shire plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as the Group or Shire is a leading specialty biopharmaceutical company that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Shire focuses its business on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, human genetic therapies and gastrointestinal therapeutic areas.
The subsidiaries and equity-method investees principally affecting the profits and or net assets of Shire in the year are listed in Note 34 to the consolidated financial statements, including their country of incorporation.
Business review Shire is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year to December 31, 2009, the position of the Group at the end of that financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Chairmans review on pages 2 and 3, the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 4 to 7, the Financial review on pages 8 to 31 and the corporate governance statement on pages 39 to 44 which are incorporated in this report by reference.
The Financial review and Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements also provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group as well as risk management objectives and policies.
There were no significant events subsequent to the balance sheet date.
There are no material differences between market and balance sheet values of land, the accounting policy of which is set out in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends The income from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity in losses earnings of equity-method investees for the year to December 31, 2009 was $643.0 million 2008: $265.6 million.
The net assets of Shire at December 31, 2009 were $1,912.5 million December 31, 2008: $1,327.5 million.
In respect of the six months to December 31, 2009 the Board resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 9.250 US cents 2008: 7.761 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Together with the first interim payment of 2.147 US cents 2008: 2.147 US cents per Ordinary Share, this represents total dividends for 2009 of 11.397 US cents 2008: 9.908 US cents per Ordinary Share.
ExcellerateHRO Guernsey Limited, trustee of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, has waived its entitlement to any dividends, which become due and payable in respect of shares or other securities, which are registered in the name of the trustee or its nominee s, from time to time, except the right to receive 0.0001 pence per share.
Liquidity, cash flow and going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans review, Chief Executive Officers review and Financial review on pages 2 to 31.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Financial review.
The Financial review also includes information in respect of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shires balance sheet includes $498.9 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2009.
Shire has no debt maturing in the next two years and substantially all of Shires debt relates to its $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bond which matures in 2014, although these bonds include a put option which could require repayment of the bonds in 2012.
In addition, Shire has a committed facility until 2012 of $1,200 million, which is currently undrawn.
The current financial situation affecting the banking system and financial markets, together with the current uncertainty in global economic conditions, has resulted in tighter credit markets and a lower level of liquidity in many financial markets.
As a result, the Group may not be able to access new equity or debt finance at the same level or cost as it has done previously.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Corporate governance The Directors are committed to business integrity and professionalism and as an essential part of this commitment the Board supports high standards of corporate governance.
Details relating to corporate governance and Shires compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 for the 2009 financial year are given on pages 39 to 44 and in the remuneration policy contained in the Directors remuneration report which is detailed on pages 48 to 61.
The Directors remuneration report contains details of Directors service contracts, whilst the Corporate governance statement includes further details on the appointment of Directors and the responsibilities of the Board.
Share capital At December 31, 2009 the Companys issued share capital comprised 561,477,011 Ordinary Shares and 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Further details of the authorized and called up share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2009 and the changes during the year are set out in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back its own shares The Directors were granted authority at the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM to: i allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 9,337,043: and ii allot equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 18,674,086 after deducting from such limit any shares or rights allotted or granted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2010 AGM.
The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to make market purchases of up to 56,022,258 of its own Ordinary Shares.
Details of the new authorities being requested are contained in the Notice of the 2010 AGM, which accompanies this Annual Report and is also available on Shires website at www.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Companies Act and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
It is the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at annual and extraordinary general meetings.
The Trust holds 3.2% of the issued share capital as at December 31, 2009 on trust for the benefit of participants of the Companys executive share plans.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting in any way it thinks fit and in doing so may take into account both financial and non financial interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust or their dependants.
Historically the Trust has not exercised this right.
Restriction on voting No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled to attend or vote at any general or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum payable by him remains unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled to attend or vote if served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares have no right to receive notice of or attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company, unless a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company or to vary the rights attaching to those Subscriber Ordinary Shares.
The Company maintains an American Depositary Receipt ADR program in the US.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
An ADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A. as depositary, and is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial rights attaching to such shares although the ADR depositary is the registered holder of the shares.
Dividends and other distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to the holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for loss arising from the payment of an interim or fixed dividend on other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Articles.
Shire has put in place income access share arrangements which enable shareholders to elect to receive their dividends from a Shire group company resident for tax purposes in the UK.
A shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer shares at the first dividend record date after he first becomes a shareholder will be deemed to have made an IAS Election as defined in the Articles such that he will receive his dividends under these arrangements, unless he notifies the Company in writing to the contrary.
Pursuant to the Articles, where any dividend is paid on the income access share to the IAS Trustee as defined in the Articles such amount is paid by the IAS Trustee to shareholders who have made or are deemed to have made an IAS Election.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire to such shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to such shareholders by the IAS Trustee.
If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the IAS Trustee to shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire on the its Ordinary Shares, Shire will be obliged to pay a dividend on the its Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
The income access share arrangements may be suspended or terminated at any time and for any reason by the Company, without financial recompense.
Holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are not entitled to receive dividends or distributions in respect of such shares.
On a winding up, the holders of the 2 Subscriber Ordinary Shares are entitled only to the nominal value of each Subscriber Ordinary Share after the holders of all other classes of share have received the nominal value of those shares.
36 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with written consent of the holders of not less than two-thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of those shares.
At each such separate general meeting, except an adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury stock.
Restrictions on transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, except: i that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the members of the Company.
Directors The following persons served as Directors of the Company during the year and up to the date of this report: Matthew Emmens Angus Russell Graham Hetherington David Kappler Patrick Langlois Dr Jeffrey Leiden Kate Nealon David Stout appointed on October 31, 2009 David Mott stepped down on October 30, 2009 Dr Michael Rosenblatt stepped down on December 23, 2009 Dr Barry Price retired on January 24, 2010 Biographical details of Directors who have served on the Board during the year appear on pages 32 and 33.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles and directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and, subject to the Companies Act, to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, for a debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of a third-party.
Directors interests in shares Details of the current Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, together with details of the share options granted to Executive Directors, are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 48 to 61.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold any executive office for such period and on such terms as it may determine and may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
At every AGM of the Company any director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other than executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment by the members.
The Company may by ordinary resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health or becomes a patient for the purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: iv he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited or disqualified by law from being a Director: or vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Directors service contracts and interest in material contracts In the event of termination of employment within 12 months of a change in control, the amount payable to Mr Russell and Mr Hetherington is one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car allowance and other contractual benefits.
Any annual bonus payable is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum level.
Other than the insurance indemnity provisions disclosed below, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the period under review.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Related party transactions There were no related party transactions in the year to December 31, 2009.
Directors liability insurance and indemnification In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third-parties in the course of their duties.
Research and development Shire continues an active research and development program and as a result has incurred research and development costs of $638.3 million in the financial year to December 31, 2009 2008: $494.3 million.
These costs have been charged to the consolidated statements of operations in accordance with Shires accounting policy.
Substantial shareholdings As at February 25, 2010 the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company: BlackRock Inc. has a holding of 5.94%: Capital Group International Inc. has a holding of 5.01%: Fidelity International Limited has a holding of 4.99%: Legal and General Group plc has a holding of 3.96%: and 1 ExcellerateHRO Share Plan Services Guernsey Limited has a holding of 3.02%.
1 Shares held on behalf of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust Political donations Shire did not make any donations to EU political parties during the year ended December 31, 2009 2008: $nil.
In 2006, Shire set up a Political Action Committee PAC in the United States.
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The PAC is run by a committee of employees which determines the political campaigns or political candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute financially to this fund.
Charitable contributions During the year, charitable contributions amounting to $2.2 million 2008: $1.5 million were made.
The contributions were made to a range of charities in line with the Shire charity and community policy and included matching of funds raised by employees.
For further information, please refer to the Shires Corporate Responsibility website at www.
Employee engagement At December 31, 2009 Shire employed 3,875 personnel, of which 73% are based in the United States, 12% in the UK and 15% in the rest of the world.
Shire places considerable value on the engagement of its employees and constantly seeks to develop employee engagement throughout the Group.
To further this aim, pursuant to Shires Employee Internal Communication Charter, employees are kept informed of strategy, current business performance, product developments, changes in Group policy and processes, employee benefits including pensions and health and safety arrangements.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer established a Leadership Team Advisory Group in 2008, which acts as a conduit between all employees and the Leadership Team.
Shire communicates with employees via regular internal publications Shire Dynamics and Shire Xpress, email, the Group intranet, regular all-employee meetings, functional and departmental meetings, focus and consultation groups on specific topics, regular employee surveys and notice boards.
During 2009, Mr Angus Russell used a quarterly blog to communicate with Shire employees, via the Shire intranet and on each occasion some 100 questions were answered and published.
Shire also encourages engagement of employees in the Groups performance through an annual individual objective setting process linked to Shires corporate objectives, and through the operation of various employee share schemes, details of which are set out in the Directors remuneration report and in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Shires employment polices are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and employment requirements and to maintain high standards wherever Shire operates.
Employees at all levels within the Group are encouraged to make the best possible contribution to Shires overall success.
Equal opportunities Shire operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other prohibited basis.
Applications for employment are fully considered on their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned relative to the requirements of the position being applied for.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with Shire continues and that appropriate training or accommodation is arranged.
It is Shires policy that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees and that reasonable accommodation is made wherever possible.
38 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Health, safety and welfare The Directors are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of Shires employees at work.
Accordingly, it is Shires policy to manage its activities so as to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risk to employees and those who may be affected by the Groups business.
In addition, Shire takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, and maintains an active Corporate Responsibility Committee as well as a global environmental health and safety team devoted to promoting employee safety at and outside work.
Payment of creditors It is Shires policy to agree payment terms with its suppliers, making sure the supplier is aware of those terms, and to abide by them.
As at December 31, 2009 the trade creditors days outstanding were: 2009 2008 Days Days Group 20 22 The Company has no trade creditors.
Financial instruments Details of Shires use of financial instruments can be found in the Financial review on pages 8 to 31 and in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Capitalized interest During the year the Group capitalized $2.7 million of interest 2008: $1.5 million primarily in connection with the expansion and modification of its offices at its HGT campus in Lexington, Massachusetts.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise the following rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under the $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 issued by the Company pursuant to a trust deed dated May 9, 2007 and a supplemental trust deed dated April 15, 2008, upon a change of control bondholders will, for 60 days thereafter, be able to exercise their right to convert their bonds into Ordinary Shares in the Company at a more advantageous price than normal, as specified in the terms and conditions of the bonds, unless the change of control is effected by a Scheme of Arrangement which results in the interposition of a new holding company between the Companys shareholders and the Company, and certain other conditions are met an Exempt Scheme.
With respect to an offer or a scheme to acquire all or most of the Ordinary Shares in the Company, further requirements are also imposed on the Company, including a requirement to notify bondholders of the offer or scheme and to use reasonable endeavors to procure the making of an equivalent offer to bondholders, unless the scheme is an Exempt Scheme.
For these purposes, a change of control is defined as the acquisition, pursuant to an offer or a scheme, by a party of the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company: and under the $1,200 million credit facility agreement dated February 20, 2007 as amended and restated on July 19, 2007 and April 15, 2008 between, amongst others, the Company and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders, upon a change of control any lender may, following not less than 30 days notice, cancel its commitments and require prepayment of its participation in any outstanding loans.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains the ability to control more than half the votes at a general meeting of the Company or holds more than half the equity share capital of the Company.
A waiver of the mandatory prepayment provision would require the consent of each lender under the agreement.
As at February 26, 2010, no loans are outstanding under the credit facility agreement.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information: and so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Group will be put to the AGM.
The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews both the level of the audit fee and the level and nature of non-audit fees as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
By order of the Board Tatjana May Company Secretary February 26, 2010
