32 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board of Directors 1234 1 2 4 Matthew Emmens 58 Angus Russell 54 David Kappler 62 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Mr Emmens was appointed Non-Executive Mr Russell was appointed Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Chairman on June 18, 2008 and has been on June 18, 2008 and has been a member of Mr Kappler has been a member of the Companys a member of the Board since March 12, 2003. the Board since December 13, 1999.
He was the Board since April 5, 2004.
He was appointed He is also a member of the Companys Companys Chief Financial Officer from December Deputy Chairman in June 2008 and Senior Nomination Committee.
He was the Companys 1999 to June 2008.
He is also the Chairman of the Independent Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Chief Executive Officer from March 2003 to June Companys Leadership Team.
Mr Russell brings He is Chairman of the Companys Nomination 2008.
Mr Emmens brings to the Board, among to his position, among other things, his operational Committee and Audit, Compliance & Risk other things, his operational knowledge of Shire knowledge of Shire and his extensive finance, Committee.
Mr Kappler brings to the Board, and his wealth of international sales, marketing, risk management, strategic and operational among other things, his extensive knowledge and integration and operational experience in the experience in the pharmaceutical sector.
experience in financial reporting, risk management pharmaceutical sector.
Mr Emmens also serves Mr Russell is a former Non-Executive Director of and internal financial controls.
Mr Kappler also as Chairman, President and Chief Executive the City of London Investment Trust plc.
Between serves as the Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Officer of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He is a 1980 and 1999, he held a number of positions Foods plc and as a Non-Executive Director former board member of Incyte Corporation.
of increasing responsibility at ICI, Zeneca and of Intercontinental Hotels Group plc.
Mr Kappler Mr Emmens began his career in international AstraZeneca PLC, including Vice President, was a Director of Camelot Group plc from 1996 to pharmaceuticals with Merck & Co, Inc. in 1974, Corporate Finance at AstraZeneca and Group 2002 and of HMV Group plc from 2002 to 2006. where he held a wide range of sales, marketing Treasurer at Zeneca.
Mr Russell is a Chartered Mr Kappler retired from Cadbury Schweppes plc and administrative positions.
In 1992, he helped Accountant, having qualified with Coopers & in April 2004 after serving as Chief Financial to establish Astra Merck, a joint venture between Lybrand, and is a Fellow of the Association of Officer since 1995.
He worked for the Cadbury Merck and Astra AB of Sweden, becoming Corporate Treasurers.
Schweppes group between 1965 and 1984 President and Chief Executive Officer.
In 1999, and rejoined the company in 1989 following its he joined Merck KGaA and established EMD 3 acquisition of the Trebor Group, where he was Pharmaceuticals, the companys global Graham Hetherington 51 Financial Director.
Mr Kappler is a Fellow of the prescription pharmaceutical business.
He was Chief Financial Officer Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
later based in Darmstadt, Germany as President Mr Hetherington has been the Companys Chief of Merck KGaAs US prescription pharmaceutical Financial Officer and a member of the Board 5 business and was a board member.
He is also a member of the Patrick Langlois 64 holds a degree in Business Management from Companys Leadership Team.
Mr Hetherington Non-Executive Director Fairleigh Dickinson University.
brings to his position, among other things, Mr Langlois has been a member of the Companys a broad range of international finance management Board since November 11, 2005.
He is also a and planning, audit, risk management and M&A member of the Companys Audit, Compliance & experience.
Mr Hetherington most recently held Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee.
positions as the Chief Financial Officer of Bacardi Mr Langlois brings to the Board, among other in 2007 and Chief Financial Officer of Allied things, his extensive experience in financial Domecq plc from 1999 to 2005.
Mr Hetherington reporting, audit and risk management.
Mr Langlois is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of is a Non-Executive Director of Scynexis Inc. Management Accountants.
Nanobiotix S. A. Exonhit S. A. and Newron Spa.
Mr Langlois previously served as Vice Chairman of the Management Board of Aventis S. A. Strasbourg, having been Group Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for several years.
He also spent many years in senior financial roles with the Rhne-Poulenc Group, including three years as a member of the Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Langlois holds a PhD in Economics and a diploma in banking studies.
Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 5678 6 7 Former Non-Executive Directors Dr Jeffrey Leiden 54 Kate Nealon 56 Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Dr Barry Price 66 Non-Executive Director Dr Leiden has been a member of the Companys Ms Nealon has been a member of the Companys Dr Price was a member of the Companys Board from Board since January 1, 2007, and Vice Chairman Board since July 27, 2006.
She is Chairman January 16, 1996 until his retirement from the Board on since April 2009.
He is a member of the of the Companys Remuneration Committee and January 24, 2010.
He was a member of the Companys Companys Remuneration Committee and also a member of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Nomination Committee and Science & Technology Committee Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Committee.
Ms Nealon brings to the Board, until October 2009 and January 2010 respectively.
Dr Price brought to the Board, among other things, his wealth of Companys Science & Technology Committee.
among other things, her extensive global legal, experience in the operational and scientific aspects of clinical Dr Leiden brings to the Board, among other compliance and risk management experience research and development.
He serves as Chairman of things, his extensive operational experience in gained through roles held in multinational Antisoma plc and Summit Corporation plc.
In recent years pharmaceutical companies and his operational companies.
Ms Nealon is a Non-Executive he has held directorships at Chiroscience plc, Celltech and scientific experience in clinical research, Director of Cable & Wireless plc and a former Group plc, Pharmagene plc and BioWisdom Limited.
Dr Price development and registration.
Dr Leiden is also Non-Executive Director of HBOS plc.
She is also worked for GSK for 28 years, where he held positions of increasing responsibility with that companys research group.
a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures LLC, a Senior Associate at the Judge Business Chairman of the Board of Directors of TyRx School at Cambridge University.
Ms Nealon was David Mott 44 Pharma, Inc. Lycera Corporation and Variation previously Group Head of Legal & Compliance Non-Executive Director Biotechnologies Inc. and a member of the Board at Standard Chartered plc until 2004.
She is Mr Mott was a member of the Companys Board from of Directors of Biolex Therapeutics Inc. and a US qualified lawyer and spent several years October 31, 2007 to October 30, 2009.
He was a member Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. Dr Leiden served in her early career practising law in New York.
of the Companys Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee until October 2009.
Mr Mott joined venture capital firm New as President and Chief Operating Officer, Enterprise Associates NEA in September 2008 as a General Pharmaceutical Products Group and Chief 8 Partner focused on biopharmaceutical investments.
Prior Scientific Officer at Abbott Laboratories from David Stout 55 to joining NEA, Mr Mott was President and Chief Executive 2001 to 2006: during this time he was also a Non-Executive Director Officer of MedImmune Inc. a subsidiary of AstraZeneca PLC, member of the Boards of Directors of Abbott and Mr David Stout joined the Board as a Nonand Executive Vice President of AstraZeneca.
Formerly, he was a Vice President in the Health Care Investment Banking TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.
Prior to joining Executive Director with effect from October 31, Group at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Inc.
He is a Abbott, Dr Leiden served as the Elkan R. Blout 2009 and is a member of the Audit, Compliance member of the board of Rib-x Pharmaceuticals Inc. and also Professor of Biological Sciences, Harvard School & Risk Committee.
Mr Stout brings to the Board, a former board member of Ambit Biosciences and Conceptis of Public Health and Professor of Medicine, among other things, extensive international Technologies.
Mr Mott holds a bachelors degree in Harvard Medical School.
Previously, he was the sales, marketing, operational and supply chain economics and government from Dartmouth College.
Frederick H. Rawson Professor of Medicine and experience gained in the pharmaceutical sector.
Pathology and Chief of the Section of Cardiology Mr Stout also holds directorships at Allos Dr Michael Rosenblatt 62 Non-Executive Director at the University of Chicago.
Dr Leiden was a Therapeutics, Inc, Jabil Circuit, Inc. and Airgas Inc. Dr Rosenblatt was a member of the Companys Board from founder of Cardiogene, Inc. a biotechnology Most recently he was President, Pharmaceutical April 24, 2008 to December 23, 2009.
He was a member company specializing in cardiovascular gene Operations at GSK.
In this position he had of the Companys Nomination Committee, Remuneration therapy.
Dr Leiden earned a bachelors degree in responsibility for pharmaceutical operations Committee and Science & Technology Committee until biological sciences, a doctorate in virology and a in the United States, Europe, Japan and all other December 23, 2009.
Dr Rosenblatt is the Dean of Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.
medical degree, all from the University of Chicago.
Mr Stout was also He was previously Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts responsible for global manufacturing and global School and has served in senior research positions at the and Sciences and an elected member of the Biologics vaccines at GSK.
Prior to that, he was Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
He was the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy President of GSKs US Pharmaceuticals Business founding director of the Carl J. Shapiro Institute for Education of Sciences.
Dr Leiden is currently a Managing and before that SmithKline Beechams North and Research at Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Director at Clarus Ventures LLC.
In addition, Dr Rosenblatt has served as Director of the Harvard-MIT Division of Health joining SmithKline Beecham, Mr Stout worked Sciences and Technology and as Senior Vice President for for many years at Schering-Plough.
Research at Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories where he headed a worldwide development team as well as directing drug discovery efforts in the United States, Japan and Italy.
He also headed Merck Researchs worldwide University and Industry Relations Department.
He is a graduate of Columbia University and gained his medical qualification at Harvard Medical School.
