30 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 exteRioRs growth drivers: essential Rmi requirement growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route new products 1 SHI ar09 front.
indd 30 06 04 2010 14:10:57 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Focus, Specialisation and Service the emergency nature of some repairs The roof is one of the most critical equipment, safety products and insulation requires materials to be readily available parts of any building.
many of these accessories are from local stock and these demands dictate integrity of the buildings structure core product areas for other group businesses the nature of the market, which is for a large and the buildings contents from the and the exteriors business is able to draw on number of depots holding a broad range elements.
repair and maintenance the experience and technical knowledge of its of stock.
for new-build applications, where is often an urgent requirement and sister businesses as well as taking advantage consumers or designers require certain styles requires suitable products to be of group procurement.
or finishes, SIG also provides Roof Libraries readily available on demand.
which offer a very wide selection of materials sig is also a leading supplier in the uk of and facilitate the specification process.
During the 341 trading sites in this division offer reclaimed and pre-used roof tiles and slates the last few years, sig has also broadened its materials from the leading manufacturers which have two key advantages over newly product offering to include roofline products of roofing materials and supply products manufactured products.
firstly, they remove such as rainwater and guttering, soffit, fascia for pitched, flat, industrial and agricultural the need for energy consuming manufacture and barge boards.
As the largest specialist supplier and secondly, their aged and worn character of roofing materials in Europe, the Group is provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance sig has also expanded its range of photovoltaic able to keep at the forefront of innovations and that matches that of the local environment, products which are supplied through the provide its customers with a level of technical something that is increasingly important to groups trading sites in france, germany know-how unrivalled in the market.
in addition, local communities and planning agencies.
government initiatives are for certain bespoke product solutions, the group expected to support and drive demand also has in-house manufacturing capability in the the on-going need for repair or replacement for these products going forward.
As well as specialist roofing of existing roofs, whether as the result of materials, each location offers a range of accessories natural wear and tear or of storm damage, such as tools and fixings, ventilation, access creates a resilient market for roofing materials.
Read more about our divisions www.
htm revenue 749.0m 27.3% of total revenue 1 SHI ar09 front.
