32 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 inteRioRs growth drivers: government investment e. g. schools and hospitals Rising standards of internal fit out thermal, acoustic and safety standards 1 SHI ar09 front.
indd 32 06 04 2010 14:11:03 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Focus, Specialisation and Service siG interiors businesses are the group has a combination of The Group has 222 trading sites 80 of leading designers, manufacturers businesses within the interiors market which also supply insulation products in and specialist distributors of all sector, incorporating both distribution mainland europe which blend the requirements products required for interior fit out and manufacturing-based businesses.
The interiors market place which require ready access to materials with is demanding, sophisticated and fast the core product areas for the group are those of larger, specification-based contracts moving with product innovation being ceilings, partitioning, dry lining, floor coverings, where specialist advice, service and support essential to respond to changing glass and specialist door systems used in are required to secure orders.
customer and legislation and standards.
Emphasis is non-residential buildings, together with a wide client support may include technical design and on achieving a balance between efficient range of ancillary products supplied to support development of visual appearance, together utilisation of space and the quality and individual contracts.
All types of non-residential with logistics and delivery scheduling in order to comfort of the working environment.
buildings such as schools, hospitals, hotels, meet the requirements of the fit out programme.
There is also an added requirement of offices and shops are supplied with products delivery service is an important element of project planning as city locations can often have flexibility to meet the changing business for either new build or refurbishment projects.
difficult access and minimal space for holding requirements of todays world.
the group supplies leading-brand ceiling and stock.
if materials are not available on time dry lining products and manufactures its own then contractors face lost downtime and door and partitioning systems.
Read more about our divisions www.
htm revenue 685.9m 25.0% of total revenue 1 SHI ar09 front.
