34 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 sPECiaLisT COnsTrUCTiOn PrODUCTs growth drivers: investment in infrastructure and non-discretionary spending by utilities demand for high performance solutions and innovative products Supply chain efficiency and specific technical just in time project management 1 SHI ar09 front.
indd 34 06 04 2010 14:11:11 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Focus, Specialisation and Service siGs specialist Construction Products the products supplied by sig are often division distributes specialist, leading of critical importance to the whole building brand construction materials to a wide programme and must perform to tight range of markets which are essential specifications and be available for use at the to the construction process.
Detailed right time and right location.
consequently, product knowledge and a keen relationships throughout the supply chain with Read more about our divisions understanding of specific technical manufacturers, major contractors and specialist www.
htm applications are vital elements of sub-contractors are vital.
the capability to customer support.
a large part of provide solutions with expert technical advice siGs sales in this market sector are and the ability to offer rapid delivery times to into new construction projects.
maintain workflows on large projects is a big point of differentiation on time critical projects.
sig supplies a wide portfolio of specialist construction products such as concrete public sector investment in large accessories, waterproofing systems, construction scale infrastructure projects together with chemicals and admixtures, brickwork support non-discretionary spending by utility companies systems, specialist fixings, safety products generates high levels of continuing opportunity and tools from 46 trading sites.
typically, for sigs products in this sector.
products are supplied to large commercial or civil engineering projects.
examples include major construction contractors are increasingly tunnels and bridges, schools and hospitals, looking to shrink their supplier base and to retail developments, hotels and office buildings.
outsource more work to less suppliers.
sigs extensive range of products and service make it ideally positioned to take advantage of this opportunity.
revenue 222.2m 8.1% of total revenue 1 SHI ar09 front.
