28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 insULaTiOn anD BUiLDinG EnvirOnmEnTs growth drivers: the need to reduce energy consumption more stringent government regulation public sector and private finance initiatives 1 SHI ar09 front.
indd 28 06 04 2010 14:10:51 Review of the yeaR SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Focus, Specialisation and Service sustainable products to progress innovative siG is the largest specialist supplier are developing apace and the group has building methods.
of insulation and related products positioned itself as a leader within this area in Europe.
insulation products have as well as the wider insulation market.
The Group has 224 trading sites 80 of which three main applications, being thermal also supply interiors products in mainland europe management, fire protection and high energy costs and environmental focused on the requirements of the insulation sound control.
in the longer term, concerns drive the use of insulation products and building environment market and is able to demand for insulation products, driven across a wide range of construction and provide expert advice, wide stock holding and by continued and more stringent industrial applications.
in general, insulation is rapid service and delivery.
in the uk, the group Government legislation and environmental used to control the transfer of heat and sound is also engaged in domestic insulation contracting, issues, is expected to outperform and provide resistance to fire, all of which are being predominantly the retrofitting of thermal overall construction demand.
subject to the specific Building Regulations in insulation in the walls and lofts of houses, thus each country.
in addition, the goal of reducing improving the efficiency of existing residential the most widespread application for insulation carbon emissions driven by government policy properties.
Demand for domestic retrofitting is that of thermal management where insulation and regulation is placing increasing importance of insulation is driven through a number of is most commonly used to retain heat within on the use of appropriate insulation materials government supported schemes such as the a building or industrial process.
As building Regulations, environmental carbon emissions Reduction target ceRt in there are also applications, such as cold stores, issues and modern methods of construction the uk.
sig has built upon its extensive experience where the requirement is to keep heat out.
become ever more complex, customers increasingly rely upon the knowledge, support in the industrial and heating, ventilation and fire protection is another important application and impartial advice only a specialist distributor Air conditioning hvAc insulation market to for insulation where good design, material can provide.
sigs sales and technical staff develop into the adjacent and complementary specification and installation are vital in protecting receive continuous training in the latest area of air handling and air conditioning materials buildings from the ravages of fire and ultimately legislation, building methods, products with activities spread across eight countries and help save lives.
the third application of insulation and applications.
twelve trading sites around europe.
this market is that of sound control.
cities and towns are offers excellent growth prospects driven by becoming increasingly dense and the ability to building methods and products are rapidly increasing regulation on thermal efficiencies minimise the transmission of noise between changing.
sig works closely with manufacturers in the non-residential environment.
dwellings is now an integral part of building to introduce wide ranges of new, specialist, design.
the technical capabilities for this application revenue 1,086.4m 39.6% of total revenue Read more about our divisions www.
