Directors report Governance Other disclosures Other disclosures continued Significant agreements Disclosure of information to auditors The group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various banking groups.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report These facility agreements generally include change of control provisions which, confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information in the event of a change in ownership of the Company, could result in their of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all renegotiation or withdrawal.
The most significant agreements are the US$1.2bn the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of syndicated loan facility which was signed on 12 October 2006 and under which any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are 211m was drawn down at the year end, the 320m syndicated loan facility aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means which was signed on 14 October 2008 and under which no funds were drawn down information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation at the year end and the 120m Finance Contract from the European Investment of their report on page 53.
Bank which was signed on 5 December 2007 and under which 120m was drawn Auditors down at the year end.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the In addition to these bank facilities, in March 2009 the Company issued US$610m reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed of private placement notes to institutional investors.
In accordance with the at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
scheduled maturities, no repayment of these notes had taken place by the Directors year end.
In the event of a change in ownership of the Company, the Company The names of the persons who were directors of the Company during the is obliged to make an offer of immediate repayment to the note holders.
financial year and as at 3 November 2009 appear on pages 28 and 29, other than There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon Martin Adamson who retired from the board and as Chairman on 21 April 2009. a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial Charles Sinclair was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 October 2008 contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered to be significant and as Chairman on 21 April 2009. in terms of its potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Also in accordance with the Articles and the Combined Code on Corporate Essential contracts or arrangements Governance, Galen Weston, who has served for more than nine years, Lord Jay, Individual companies in the group have contractual and other arrangements with Javier Ferrn and Tim Clarke retire from the board.
These directors, being eligible, many third parties in support of the groups businesses activities.
Such contracts offer themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
and arrangements may be deemed essential to one or more operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the group Directors indemnities as a whole.
Through the British Sugar IPA Agreement via the National Farmers Three directors of operating subsidiaries benefited from qualifying third-party Union, approximately 1,000 individual contracts with sugar beet growers are created.
indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, ABF Investments plc, during the financial year and at the date of this report.
Further information Further information that fulfils the requirements of Part 6 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares set out on page 85: and details of the employee share scheme set out on pages 88 and 89.
50 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Other disclosures Directors responsibility statement The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Chapter 4, the following sections of the Companys annual report contain a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: 1.
The Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: 2.
Operating review on pages 6 to 23, which includes a review of the external environment, key strategic aims, future development and performance measures: 3.
Financial review on pages 24 and 25: 4.
Other disclosures: Research and development: 5.
Other disclosures: Property, plant & equipment: 7.
Other disclosures: Power of the directors: and 8.
Other disclosures: Principal risks and uncertainties.
On behalf of the board Charles Sinclair George Weston John Bason Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director 3 November 2009 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 Directors report Governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with and regulations.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent company financial 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU other irregularities.
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report and Corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may required to: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
52 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the group and parent company financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the financial statements of Associated British Foods plc for the year ended In our opinion: 12 September 2009 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, the parent company reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Matters on which we are required to report by exception Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited with sections 495, 496 and 497 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has by us: or been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility returns: or to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we require for As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect our audit.
of the annual report and the financial statements set out on page 52, the directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the the directors statement, set out on page 52, in relation to going concern: and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope UKP Opinion on financial statements Stephen Oxley In our opinion: for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups Statutory Auditor and of the parent companys affairs as at 12 September 2009 and of the 8 Salisbury Square groups profit for the year then ended: London the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance EC4Y 8BB with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: 3 November 2009 the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated income statement for the year ended 12 September 2009 2009 2008 continuing operations Note m m revenue 1 9,255 8,235 Operating costs before exceptional items 2 8,639 7,660 1 Exceptional items 2 46 616 529 Share of profit after tax from joint ventures and associates 11 10 15 Profits less losses on sale of property, plant & equipment 1 10 operating profit 625 554 Adjusted operating profit 1 720 664 Profits less losses on sale of property, plant & equipment 1 10 Amortisation of non-operating intangibles 8 82 74 Inventory fair value adjustment 22 12 Exceptional items 46 Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 22 65 5 profit before interest 560 559 Finance income 4 17 21 Finance expense 4 95 74 Other financial income 4 13 21 profit before taxation 495 527 Adjusted profit before taxation 655 632 Profits less losses on sale of property, plant & equipment 1 10 Amortisation of non-operating intangibles 82 74 Inventory fair value adjustment 12 Exceptional items 46 Profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses 65 5 Taxation UK excluding tax on exceptional items 71 50 UK on exceptional items 14 Overseas excluding tax on exceptional items 41 92 Overseas on exceptional items 20 5 112 136 profit for the period 383 391 attributable to Equity shareholders 359 357 Minority interests 24 34 profit for the period 383 391 Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 7 45.5 45.2 Dividends per share paid and proposed for the year pence 6 21.0 20.25 1 Refer to accounting policy on page 59.
54 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009
