Directors report Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance The board remains committed to the principles of good corporate governance and of the Company.
The board will also continue to keep developments in the to maintaining high standards of business ethics and professionalism across the Combined Code, including the current consultation being conducted by the group, which it believes are vital to the Companys business integrity and successful Financial Reporting Council, under review and will in due course consider how long-term performance.
The board recognises that corporate governance is not best to address any such developments.
an end in itself but an important means to an end.
The board believes that any system which is adopted must also reflect necessary The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require UK listed companies standards of governance for the Company and its corporate social responsibilities to report on the manner in which they apply the Combined Code on Corporate and believes that the systems in place meet those requirements.
Governance the Combined Code which is publicly available at www.
uk Statement of compliance The board recognises that the Combined Code represents best practice and The board considers that the Company has complied fully with the provisions this report, together with the Remuneration report, sets out how the Company set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year, with the applies the principles of this Combined Code which deal with directors, directors following exceptions: remuneration, relations with, and accountability to, shareholders, and the audit Combined Code Provisions Status Explanation A.
The terms and conditions of appointment Galen Weston has not entered into a formal This is due to his relationship with the Companys of non-executive directors should be made available letter of appointment.
ultimate holding company, Wittington Investments for inspection Limited of which he is a director and shareholder.
Galen Weston receives no fees for performing his role as a non-executive director and Associated British Foods plc does not reimburse him for any expenses incurred by him in that role.
In accordance with the Combined Code, he is subject to annual re-election.
2.1 The Chairman should not chair Charles Sinclair is both Chairman and The board of Associated British Foods plc does not the Remuneration committee chairman of the Remuneration committee.
accept this recommendation as it considers that Charles Sinclair, due to his experience, is best suited to chair this committee.
The Combined Code now recognises that the Chairman can be a member of the Remuneration committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
30 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Governance Corporate governance The board of directors Chairman and Chief Executive Role and responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and the All members of the board take collective responsibility for the overall management division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed and performance of the Company.
The board met formally nine times during by the board.
The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is responsible for the running and the year.
The individual attendance by directors is detailed on page 32. leadership of the board.
The Chief Executive, George Weston, is responsible for leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the board.
Whilst the board has delegated day-to-day management of the Company to the Chief Executive, there is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board Senior independent director for decision, through which the board oversees control of the Companys affairs.
Tim Clarke is the recognised senior independent director.
This schedule of matters reserved includes the approval of: Re-election annual and interim results and interim management statements: Under the Articles, both now and as they are proposed to be amended at the forthcoming annual general meeting, all directors seek election at their first annual the Companys strategic and operating plans: general meeting following appointment.
The Articles also require all directors who the annual budget: held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and in any event not less than one third of the directors, to submit themselves for re-election.
appointments to the board and as Company Secretary: In accordance with the Combined Code, all non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years must also submit themselves for re-election on treasury policies: an annual basis.
Accordingly, Galen Weston, Lord Jay, Javier Ferrn and Tim Clarke dividend recommendation: will be required to seek re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
the issue of new shares: Induction and continuing professional development On joining the board, directors are given background documents describing amendments to the Companys pension scheme: the Company and its activities and are provided with an appropriate induction larger capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investment proposals: and programme.
The Company offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors.
Site visits were arranged during the year for Charles Sinclair the overall system of internal control and risk management.
to meet the senior management teams at major business units.
Ongoing training Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board committees, notably is provided as necessary.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, which operate within Information flow clearly defined terms of reference, reporting regularly to the board.
Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance of the Composition meetings.
The Company Secretary manages the provision of information to The board currently comprises the Chairman Charles Sinclair, the Chief Executive the board at other appropriate times, in consultation with the Chairman and George Weston, the Finance Director John Bason and four non-executive directors Chief Executive.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive who are independent of management and have no relationships which would maintain regular contact with all directors.
The Chairman also holds informal materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board meetings with non-executive directors, without any of the executives being present, also includes Galen Weston, a non-executive director, who is not regarded as to discuss any issues affecting the group.
independent in view of his relationship with Wittington Investments Limited.
In order to keep the non-executive directors informed of events throughout the Following the retirement of Martin Adamson in April 2009, Charles Sinclair group between board meetings, regular management updates are sent to each was appointed Chairman.
On his appointment as Chairman, Charles Sinclair director.
This seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors are always kept met the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code.
fully informed of the latest issues affecting the group.
The board considers that the non-executive directors provide a solid foundation for good corporate governance for the group and ensure that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making.
Collectively, the non-executive directors bring a wide range of international experience and expertise to the board.
They each occupy or have occupied senior positions in industry or public life and consequently contribute significantly to board decision-making.
Details of the full board are set out on pages 28 and 29.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
