OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains statements that express managements expectations about future events or results rather than historical facts.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Smith & Nephew cannot give assurance that such statements will prove correct.
These risks and uncertainties include factors related to: the medical devices industry in general: product liability claims and related insurance coverage: the geographical markets in which the Group operates: the nature and efficiency of the Groups products: the Groups ability to research, develop, manufacture and distribute its products: and the translation of currencies and the values of international securities markets.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these , canbe .
Information regarding the recent and longer term market growth trends is given for each of the Groups global business unitsintherelevant  5to10.
In the second half of 2009 there were signs that conditions in the Groups markets were stabilising, although management remains cautious about the pace of the recovery.
Management believes that the pricing environment will remain a challenge, but that mix benefits will continue to be available for products which demonstrate clinical and cost benefits.
The long-term demand fundamentals underpinning the Groups sector, , remainfavourable andsubstantial.
During 2010, management expects the Orthopaedics Reconstruction business to grow at aroundthe market rate, with the European business continuing to improve.
In Orthopaedic Trauma, management is committed to achieving a sustainable market growth rate, but expects this to take some time to achieve.
In Endoscopy, management expects the business to achieve strong revenue growth in the repair segment.
It is difficult to predict when capital equipment sales will recover.
In the Advanced Wound Management business, management believes the business willcontinuetogrowat above themarketrate.
The Group made strong trading margin progress during 2009.
Management continues to be focused on longer term improvementsaimedat  .
The Group had a strong finish to the year and management is pleased with the Groups achievements in these challenging conditions.
Many areas of Smith & Nephews business have been improved and the Group is working hard in the remaining areas, as well as identifying further opportunities.
Management is confident that the Grouphasthestrategy, andpeople,   shareholders.
