In January 2009, the Group reached an agreement with the vendors of Plus Orthopedics Holdings AG Plus to reduce the total original purchase price that the Group paid in 2007 for Plus by CHF159m.
The original purchase price for the acquisition was CHF1,086 $889m in cash, including assumed debt.
The acquisition was financed by bank borrowings and was integrated into the Groups Orthopaedics business.
As part of the amended agreement the parties resolved their disputes on the contractual purchase price adjustments.
In addition, the Group released the vendors from substantially all of their warranties, including those relating to taxation, under the  anddropped .
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew reports and is organised into three Global Business Units GBUs of Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Included within the Orthopaedic segment are our biologics activities which  projects  GBUs.
 Groupoperates, the GBUs take direct responsibility for business operations.
These are referred to as direct markets.
The remaining markets in which the Group has operations are managed by country managers, who are responsible for sales and  unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas ofbusiness development, legal, companysecretarial, finance, .
The Orthopaedics business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, the site of its main development and manufacturing facility, with a European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland.
Products are also manufactured at smaller facilities in Switzerland, Germany, and the UK as well as by third-party manufacturers.
Products Orthopaedic reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement and mixing systems used in cemented reconstruction joint surgery.
Orthopaedic trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and other products, including shoulder fixation and  used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correctionprocedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinical setting and include bone growth stimulation, jointfluidtherapies andoutpatient .
Knee Implant Systems The Orthopaedics business offers a range of products for specialised knee procedures.
The LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee Systems is a comprehensive system designed to allow surgeons to address a wide range of knee procedures from primary to revision.
The JOURNEY Active Knee Solutions, a family of advanced, customised products designed to treat early to mid-stage osteoarthritis patients, provides more normal feeling and motion through bone ligament preservation and anatomic replication.
Other knee systems includethePLUS  Knee.
Hip Implant Systems The Orthopaedics business offers a broad range of hip replacement systems.
The recently introduced R3 Acetabular System includes a modular acetabular cup that provides the widest variety of advanced bearings available with a single system.
The BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System is the market leading system for hip resurfacing, a less-invasive, bone conserving approach, which utilises proven low wear metal-on-metal bearing surface technology.
Other hip systems include the SYNERGY Hip System, ANTHOLOGY HipSystem .
Bearing surfaces The Orthopaedics business utilises a range of bearing surfaces in its implant systems, including its proprietary OXINIUM Technology.
Oxidised zirconium, branded OXINIUM, combines the enhanced wear resistance of a ceramic bearing with the superior durability of a metallic bearing.
When combined with  XLPE itresults  Technology.
5 Group Description Trauma and ShoulderImplant Systems The principal internal fixation products are the TRIGEN Intramedullary Nailing system, the TRIGEN INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Antegrade nails for hip fractures and the PERI-LOC Periarticular Locked Plating system which offers a comprehensive family of upper and lower extremity plate and screwproducts.
For external fixation and limb restoration, Orthopaedics offers the leading TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular FixationSystem andJET-XUnilateral Fixator.
The PROMOS Modular Shoulder System offers a range of solutions for shoulder arthritis and upper extremity fractures.
Clinical therapies The principal clinical therapies products offered include the EXOGEN Ultrasound Bone Healing System which utilises low-intensity ultrasound to accelerate the healing of fresh fractures.
DUROLANE Joint Fluid Therapy and SUPARTZ Joint Fluid Therapy are non-surgical, non-pharmacological pain-relieving therapy  acts  inhealthyjoints.
Strategy The overall vision of the Orthopaedics business is to improve peoples lives by repairing and healing the human body.
Orthopaedics is committed to being customer-led by focusing on product innovation, sales support and surgeon education.
The aim of the Orthopaedics business is to continue to develop innovative, world class products and technologies to meet the growing demands of patients and hospitals for tougher, longer-lasting orthopaedic implants, and trauma products that improve quality and time to heal, as well as enhancing economic value for its customers.
Smith & Nephews leading innovations make its products suitable for younger, more active patients, a market believed to be growing at twice the overall market rate.
It will provide surgeons and healthcare providers global sales excellence and  trainingsupport.
The KLEOS medical education platform, which includes the worlds top orthopaedic surgeons and thought leaders, offers a wide range of .
The Orthopaedics business efficiency programmes, encompass efforts to leverage infrastructure through better sharing of ,  andmarketingteams, developing lower-cost instrumentation, reducing the costs of sourcing and manufacturing and utilising assets, suchas , moreefficiently.
The Emerging Markets, such as China, have been identified as an important area for further investment to drive long-term growth.
In these Emerging Markets, the Orthopaedics business expects to continue to develop and introduce products tailored to local needs, as well as to expand its infrastructure, including manufacturing facilities, distribution hubs and training and service centres.
The Orthopaedics business is also expanding into fast-growing adjacent markets, including alternative therapies and biologics for pain management and fracture healing.
 these markets byexpandingits sales forceinternationally.
The Orthopaedics business aligns its organisation and develops its talent for consistent execution on the Groups plans.
New Products In 2009, the Orthopaedics business continued its global commercialisation of the industry leading R3 acetabular system, which provides the surgeon with four bearing systems: OXINIUM, XLPE, metal, and ceramic in a single cup system.
The BIRMINGHAM Mid-Head Resection resurfacing system was launched in international markets extending the provenadvantages oftheBHRsystem topatients withagreater degree ofavascular necrosis.
The Orthopaedics business also introduced its VISIONAIRE Patient-Matched Instrumentation, a key new technology platform of patient-matched cutting blocks for total knee procedures.
With VISIONAIRE, the patients MRI and X-rays are used to create customised cutting blocks that allow the surgeon to achieve optimal mechanicalaxis alignmentas wellas tosave .
Trauma completed development of the TRIGEN SURESHOT Distal Targeting System for Intramedullary Nailing, designed to simplify intramedullary nailing.
Targeting time is reduced by over 50%, reducing surgery time and .
6 Regulatory Approvals In 2009, several significant regulatory approvals were obtained around the globe.
In Japan, the TRIGEN METANAIL system and the INTERTAN Nail system were approved providing significant enhancements to our trauma portfolio.
In Europe, approval was obtained for the MIS Hip stem, and the MDF revision hip stem.
In the US, the Orthopaedics business received 510 k clearance from the FDA for kinematics claims for the JOURNEY BCS Knee System comparing its kinematic patterns to those of a normal knee.
Additionally, 20 additional approvals and clearances were obtained around the globe, including amongst others: BHR instrument upgrades, R3 Acitabular system additions, VLP FOOT Plating Screw System and Accessories, the JOURNEY Select Knee System andLEGION .
Market and Competition Smith & Nephew estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic market, excluding clinical therapies, served by the Group grew by approximately 5% in 2009 and is currently worth approximately $16.8 billion per annum worldwide.
Management believes that the Smith & Nephew Orthopaedics business holds an 11% share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in orthopaedics are Zimmer, Stryker, DePuy Johnson & Johnson, Synthes andBiomet.
In 2009, weaker economic conditions worldwide created several challenges for the overall orthopaedic market, including increased deferrals of joint replacement procedures, heightened pricing pressures and significant declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals.
These factors reduced the overall growth of the worldwide orthopaedic market and may continue to impact growth in the future.
Additionally, proposed healthcare reform legislation may adversely impact the US orthopaedic market, which comprises a significant portion of our sales.
However, over the longer-term, several catalysts are expected to continue to drive sustainable growth in orthopaedic device sales, including the growing, ageing population, rising rates of co-morbidities such as obesity and diabetes, and technology improvements allowing surgeons to treat younger, moreactive patients,  .
Management estimates that the worldwide market for clinical therapies increased by 7% in 2009 and is currently worth more than $1.5 billion per annum.
Smith & Nephews primary market for clinical therapies is in the US.
In the US long bone stimulation market management estimates Smith & Nephews share to be 40%.
Principal competitors are Biomet, DJ Ortho and Orthofix.
In the US joint fluid therapies market, management estimates that Smith & Nephew maintains a share of 17%.
The principal competitors are Genzyme, Sanofi Aventis, DePuy Johnson& .
Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews Endoscopy business develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the , inparticulartheknee, shoulderandhip.
Endoscopy is headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts and manufacturing facilities are currently located in Mansfield, Massachusetts, and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
Major service centres are located in the US, the UK, Germany, Japan andAustralia.
Products The Endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery of the joints and ligaments repair, including: specialised devices and fixation systems to repair damaged tissue: fluid management equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, scopes, light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation: and radiofrequency wands, electromechanical and mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resectingdamaged tissue.
Key products in repair are FAST-FIX for meniscal repair, ENDOBUTTON for cruciate fixation, and the FOOTPRINT Suture Anchor for rotator cuff repair.
Key products in resection are the large range of DYONICS shaver blades, ACUFEX handheld instruments, and a range of Radiofrequency probes.
The key product in Visualisation is the DYONICS560HDcamera.
7 Group Description Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to grow the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologies for joint and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises on the growing  apreferred , patients andpayers.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the Endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associations and surgeon advisory boards.
The Emerging Markets, especially China, are expected to be a major driver of growth in future, andthe business  thisgrowth.
New Products In 2009, Smith & Nephew continued to expand its arthroscopic sports medicine portfolio with the launch of several .
The BICEPTOR Tenodesis System offers versatility for biceps tenodesis repairs with the option of either a fully arthroscopic or mini-open repair.
OSTEORAPTOR Suture Anchors for the shoulder are the only bioabsorbable suture anchors to incorporate a bone mineral that is naturally occurring in the body Hydroxyapatite HA.
Its differing sizes give surgeons more repair options and allow them to position repairs precisely where required.
BIOSURE PK combines the advantages of the material PolyEtherEtherKetone PEEK, which is strong, radiolucent, and revisable, with the novel screw shape of BIOSURE, which has a unique taper for ease of insertion into the knee.
The DYONICS RF System incorporates a compact generator with a family of probes for removing defects and smoothing soft tissue during arthroscopic surgery, and the DYONICS Power II Control System offers soft tissue resection and efficient bone resection with a powerful, high-torque handpiece that can increase procedure efficiency.
The DYONICS BONECUTTER ELECTROBLADE Resector is an all-in-one device for subacromial decompression procedures.
The BONECUTTER ELECTROBLADE Resector combines the functions of a shaver blade, burr and radiofrequency probe into one device.
It simultaneously resects and coagulates soft tissue as wellas cuttingbone.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2009, the Endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: PEEK Interference Screw, BioSure PK Interference Screw, TwinFix Ultra PK FT Suture Anchor and Knotless Instability Anchor, all designed for the reattachment of ligaments, tendons or soft tissues to bone in knees, shoulders or other articulating joints, and all made ofPEEK: , devices .
Market and Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth more than $2.7 billion a year and has been growing between 8% and 12% annually.
In 2009, growth was reduced due to due to broader economic conditions.
In particular, these weaker economic conditions led to hospitals deferring or reducing capital equipment purchases which significantly impacted revenues from visualisation equipment such as cameras and light sources.
Arthroscopy growth rates are driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures,   procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 24% share of the global arthroscopy market as at 31 December 2009.
Smith & Nephews main competitors in the global arthroscopy in 2009 were Arthrex, Mitek Johnson& Johnson, Stryker,  Conmed.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews Advanced Wound Management business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds associated with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers.
There are also products for the treatment of woundssuchas  .
8 Advanced WoundManagement has its globalheadquarters inHull, Englandandits  in St Petersburg, Florida.
The products are manufactured at facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England, Suzhou in China, and also by third party manufacturers around the world.
In 2009, Advanced Wound Management completed the closure of manufacturing in Largo, Florida and transferred it to the new manufacturing facility in Suzhou.
Products The main products within the Advanced Wound Management business are for exudate management, predominantly the ALLEVYN brand, infection management, including the ACTICOAT brand and negative pressure woundtherapy NPWT.
The ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range has been considerably enhanced by new versions, introduced in recent years, that management believe provide efficient fluid management and an optimal moist wound environmentthat promotesfaster healingofthewound, .
The ACTICOAT range incorporatesthe smallest crystallised silverused inthetreatment ofwoundsandburns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can cause infection and prevent or delay healing.
A range of dressings combining ALLEVYN with the infection management capabilities of silver, ALLEVYNAg, .
NPWT delivers vacuum-assisted pressure to help promote healing.
NPWT consists of a wound dressing, a drainage tube, and a transparent film that is connected to a suction device.
Smith & Nephew offers the RENASYS EZ andRENASYS GO pumpsystems  kits.
Advanced Wound Managements also has a range of other advanced products including films, such as OPSITE andIV3000, skincaretreatments andgels.
Strategy Advanced Wound Managements strategy for the business is to be customer-led and invest for growth by focusing on high growth, high value segments, in particular those of exudate and infection management through improvedwoundbed preparation,  NPWTmarket.
Further efficiency improvement is expected to be delivered through continued focus on operational excellence.
Since 2007, efficiency improvements have been delivered through various projects including support function consolidation, outsourcing of manufacturing to low cost suppliers, distribution rationalisation projects and the , China.
An aligned approach across the GBU ensures our talent is developed and working on common objectives to deliver .
In December 2009, the Advanced Wound Management business acquired the manufacturing assets of Nucryst Pharmaceuticals which exclusively licenses and manufactures our range of ACTICOAT products, using its nanocrystalline silver technology, SILCRYST.
Under this agreement, the Group acquired the manufacturing assets from Nucrysts current operations in Canada and intellectual property rights relating to the nanocrystalline silver technology used in the manufacture of the ACTICOAT product range.
Nucryst has manufactured ACTICOAT products for Smith & Nephew since the Group acquired certain product rights in 2001.
We expect this acquisition todeliver .
New Products Management estimates that the NPWT market is worth $1.5 billion in annual revenue.
We have launched a range  pressure.
During 2009, the ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range was extended further with the development of antimicrobial variants that include soft gel adhesives.
This new range of dressings has the efficient fluid management of the existing ALLEVYN dressings and rapid, sustained antimicrobial action, whilst improving .
The ACTICOAT range was enhanced during 2009 with the launch of additional ACTICOAT Flex dressings, a conformable range of dressings designed to treat wounds in awkward anatomical areas with improved patient comfort during use.
A range of dressings specifically designed for use in Orthopaedic External Fixation procedureswas alsolaunched.
9 Group Description Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2009, Advanced Wound Management secured approvals for ACTICOAT Flex 7 and ACTICOAT Flex 3, in the EU and the USA.
New versions of ALLEVYN Gentle and ALLEVYN Gentle Border were also approved in the EU and the USA, with the addition of silver to these variants and a new heel variant was also added to the ALLEVYN Gentle Borderrange.
In Japan, there were eight approvals including new product approvals for CADEX Dressing, ALLEVYN Gentle Border and the latest product variants for ALLEVYN Adhesive and Non-Adhesive.
ALLEVYN products are sold underthe HYDROSITE trade nameinJapan.
Market and Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide was $5.0 billionin 2009, %from2008.
During2009, themarketgrowthrate slowed slightly due to the weaker economic conditions.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that the market will continuethe trend towards advanced wound products with its ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of clinician and nursing time as well as aftercare inthe home.
Management estimates that Smith & Nephew had a 16% share of the advanced wound management market as at 31 December 2009.
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management in 2009 include Kinetic Concepts, , Convatec, .
