The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining the individual remuneration packages for the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer the executive directors and for the remaining executive officers of the Company, as detailed on page 49 of this Annual Report.
In determining these remuneration packages, the Remuneration Committee has regard to the levels of pay and the structure of remuneration packages across the entire Group.
The shape of the remuneration packages for the executive directors and executive officers is broadly similar to the remuneration packages for other executives in the Group.
The salary levels and multiples used in the various incentive plans differ according to level of seniority.
This is explained in greater detail within the .
Across the Group, base pay and benefits are referenced to median competitive levels for acceptable performance whilst incentive plans, both short and long-term, are designed to motivate and reward out-performance.
Total remuneration packages are benchmarked by reference to appropriate UK and US companies and where relevant other local markets.
Individual remuneration levels are based on measurable performance against fair and open objectives and there are  unless requiredbylaw orlocalprotocol.
The policies described in this Report have been applied throughout 2009 and it is intended that they will continue to apply throughout 2010.
The Remuneration Committee will however continue to monitor its policies against   inthe .
The Remuneration Committee has a policy to consult with the Companys major shareholders and relevant stakeholders prior to implementing any significant change to the Remuneration Policy and places great value in developing a transparent relationship on such matters.
During 2009, the Company and members of the Remuneration Committee consulted with shareholders representing approximately 24% of the issued share capital, as well as representatives of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, .
Principal Components of Remuneration The remuneration package for the Companys senior executive population, which includes the executive directors andexecutive officers, : Basicsalary andbenefits:  element undertheDeferred BonusPlan: Long-termincentives,  andshare options:and Pensionentitlements.
During 2009, the Remuneration Committee again undertook a thorough review of the structuring of the remuneration arrangements.
During the review, the Committee were mindful of the latest developments in the economic and corporate governance environment, and also took on board specific feedback received from certain shareholders.
The purpose of the review was to ensure that the incentive arrangements continue to be firmly linked to the long-term success of the business and are based on balanced measures of corporate performance.
The Committee believed that the principal focus of the review should be on the metrics used to drive the performance of the business, and in particular, the weighting given to growth in EPSA basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional items across the package.
Whilst EPSA growth is an important measure, as it underscores many of the financial objectives the Company is trying to achieve, the Remuneration Committee felt that incentives should be subject to a broader range of performance measures more closely linked to the specific Strategic Imperatives of the Group as set out on page 4 of this Annual Report.
During 2009 therefore, the following changes were made to the overall remunerationpackage: As disclosed in last years Report, the 2009 bonus target reduced the reliance placed on EPSA growth, moving from EPSA growth representing 75% of the total bonus to 50% and introducing an Earnings Improvementtarget  targets.
In 2010, further changes will be made and the targets for the Bonus Plan will be linked specifically to the GroupsStrategic Imperatives.
62 The Company moved from an absolute EPSA growth performance measure for the 2004 Performance Share Plantoa relative EPSA measurecomparingEPSA .
The Company switched from an EPSA growth to a Total Shareholder Return TSR target for the 2004 Executive  directors.
a Base Salary and Benefits Across the Group, base salary is determined both by the scope and the responsibility of the position and performance potential of the individual.
Salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 April each year.
Base salary is benchmarked by reference to the median for the relevant geographic market and employees are paid in a currency related to their home market.
The Group also provides certain benefits such as private healthcare and a company car or allowance in line with competitive practice for the applicable geographic market.
The Remuneration Committee also considers any pension consequences and costs to the Company when determiningbase salary   officers.
With effect from 1 April 2009, the Remuneration Committee agreed the following base salaries for the executive directors: DavidIllingworth $1,407,000 AdrianHennah 515,000 Following the annual review conducted in February 2010, the Remuneration Committee has determined that with effect from 1 April 2010, David Illingworths base salary would remain unchanged and that Adrian Hennahs base salary would increase by 3%.
The base salaries for the executive directors with effect from 1 April 2010 will be therefore: DavidIllingworth $1,407,000 AdrianHennah 530,000 , theexecutive directorsareeachpaid intheirhomecurrency.
b Annual Bonus with Deferredelement under the DeferredBonus Plan An Annual Bonus Plan is operated across the Group.
The plan is designed to encourage outstanding   bonusopportunity.
Senior executives also participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan under which a proportion of their annual bonus dependent upon their seniority in the organisation is compulsorily deferred into shares which vest in equal annual tranches over three years, subject to the participants continued employment.
No further performance conditions apply to these deferred shares.
The Deferred Bonus Plan is designed to encourage executives to build up and maintain a significant shareholding in the Company to encourage them to behave and act like shareholders.
The Deferred Bonus Plan replaced the 2004 Co-Investment Plan, which was last operated in respect ofthe .
Executive directors and officers participate in the same Annual Bonus Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan although the targets andmaximumlevels aredifferent  ofresponsibility.
During 2009, the maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors was 150% of annual base salary with a bonus of 100% for on target performance.
One third of the annual bonus earned at and above target will be compulsorily deferred into shares as explained above.
The maximum cash bonus opportunity is therefore 100% of salary.
There is no deferral of bonus for below target level performance.
The maximum and target bonus awards forexecutive .
 directorswas subject : AnnualgrowthinEPSA 50% EarningsImprovements targets special programmedesigned toimprovelong-term earnings 25% PersonalObjectives 25% 63 Directors Remuneration Report In respect of 2009, the annual bonus earned by David Illingworth was $1,235,346 cash and $617,673, which will be deferred into shares and by Adrian Hennah was 442,900 cash and 221,450, which will be deferred into shares.
These amounts represented 88% and 86% of the maximum bonus opportunity for 2009.
Over the same period EPSA grew by 18% triggering 50% of the maximum bonus, earnings improvements triggered 21% of the maximum bonus and achievement of personal objectives triggered 17% of the maximum bonus for David Illingworthand15%.
In 2009, the Remuneration Committee continued to review the performance measures set for the Annual Bonus Plan to ensure that they were encouraging behaviour which would support the business and strategic objectives ofthe Group.
As explained onpage 4oftheAnnualReport,  pillars forsuccess: Customer led: outperforming our served markets by focusing on our customers: anticipating and innovating .
Efficient: delivering operating margin improvement and freeing up resources to invest in the business,  re-engineering.
Investing for growth: driving additional sales from new opportunities such as biologics, emerging markets andadjacent technologies.
Aligned: aligning objectives across the business and developing our talent and organisation for consistent execution,  practices.
From these four strategic pillars, a scorecard has been developed for each GBU and function, which identifies the strategic imperatives for each part of the business.
Every employee across the Group has performance objectives which link into the business scorecard and ultimately into these four strategic pillars.
The bonus to be earned in 2010 will depend upon performance against the financial measures underpinning these strategic pillars, namelyrevenue, profit, marginandcash.
 directorswillbe subject : Performanceagainst theFinancialMeasures  pillars revenue40%, tradingprofit margin40%andtradingcash20% 75% Personalobjectives 25% For executive officers, one quarter of the annual bonus earned at target level or above in 2010 will be compulsorily deferred into shares as explained above.
The performance measures will be the same as for the executive directors, except that, where relevant, the element attributable to the strategic pillars, will link into the individual executive officers specific functional strategic objectives, which are derived from the Group strategic pillars.
c Long-Term Incentives The Group operates two main Long-Term Incentive Plans for executive directors: the 2004 Performance Share Plan and the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan.
Annual awards of 150% of salary are made under the 2004 Performance Share Plan and annual grants of options at 100% of salary are made under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan.
In addition, there are some outstanding awards that were made under legacy plans no longer inoperation.
i 2004 Performance Share Plan PSP Under the 2004 Performance Share Plan, awards over shares are currently made to executive directors, executive officers and other senior executives in the second half of the year.
The vesting conditions and performance measures for these shares are common to all participants, although the number of the shares awarded depends .
The initial market value of awards made to executive directors in 2009 was equivalent to 150% of their base salary and the initial market value of the awards made to executive officers was 75% of their base salary.
The  that for2010thelevel ofthese awards willremainthe same.
Share awards under the 2004 Performance Share Plan will only vest if pre-determined levels of EPSA growth are achieved.
In addition, in order to drive enhanced shareholder value and maintain close alignment to executive and shareholder interests, the number of shares delivered to executives may be increased subject to the 64 achievement of superior Total Shareholder Return TSR measured against the major companies in the medical devices industry.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the combination of EPSA and TSR measures encourages executives to achieve outstanding performance both in absolute terms looking at the EPSA measurement andalsoinrelative terms comparedtoourpeers lookingat the TSR measurement.
The economic situation in the early part of 2009 made it increasingly difficult to establish realistic absolute EPSA targets to apply to the 2004 Performance Share Plan.
The Remuneration Committee therefore decided to adopt relative EPSA measures instead of absolute measures.
The targets for growth in EPSA will be related to growth of relevant markets, taking into account both volume and price changes in each of our major markets, and weighted according to our relative turnover in each of those markets to provide an estimate of global market growth calculated on an annual basis for each year of the Plan.
The actual EPSA growth over the three years will then be compared to the compounded EPSA growth targets to calculate the level of vesting.
Global market growth is derived from a range of publicly available sources including individual competitor company press releases, quarterlyresults andanalyst reports, as wellas data .
AnnualGrowthinEPSA overthethreeyears ending31December2011 Percentage ofaward vesting Market Growth 2% perannum 25% Threshold Market Growth 5% perannum 50% Target Market Growth 8% perannum 100% Maximum None of the award will vest if the growth in EPSA over three years is less than Threshold and the award will vest pro rata on a straight line basis between the points given in the table above if growth in EPSA is between these levels.
If the Companys TSR is positioned above median when compared with the TSR of medical devices companies, then the number of vested shares delivered to participants following the achievement of the EPSA targets will be increasedbya multiplieras follows: TSR  Multiplier Beloworat Median 1.0x Upper quartile 1.3x Upper decileorabove 1.5x  linebasis between theabove points.
TSR will be measured relative to a tailored sector peer group of medical devices companies.
The companies in the  made in2009are: Arthrocare KCI Bard Medtronic Baxter NobelBiocare BectonDickinson Nuvasive BostonScientific Orthofix Coloplast Group Stryker Conmed St Jude Medical Covidien Synthes-Stratec Edwards LifeSciencesCorp WrightMedical Johnson& Johnson Zimmer The Groups TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is independently monitored andreported .
For awards made in 2007, which vested after the 2009 year end, performance was measured against the FTSE 100 and the group of medical device companies.
These awards vested at 70% as the Company was ranked 22ndinthe FTSE100  group.
The performance measures to be used for the awards to be made in 2010 to executive directors under the 2004  onthesame basis as in2009.
In 2009, awards were made to executive officers and other senior executives below Board level under the 2004 Performance Share Plan.
From 2010 onwards, whilst awards will continue to be awarded to executive directors 65 Directors Remuneration Report under the 2004 Performance Share Plan, awards for executives below Board level will be awarded under the Global Share Plan 2010, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
The 2010 Global Share Plan is explained in greater detail below.
ii ExecutiveShare Options Under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, share options are granted to executive directors in the second half of the year at the same time as awards are made under the 2004 Performance Share Plan.
For participants in the UK, the first 30,000 of the options is granted under the terms of the 2001 UK Approved Plan or the Global Share Plan 2010, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in order to take advantage of the UK taxation provisions.
Under the rules of the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, the maximum market value of options which may be granted  tothebase salary oftheparticipant.
Share options are exercisable up to ten years from the date of grant and are only exercisable if the performance conditions over a three year performance period are achieved, beginning with the year in which the share option is granted.
Option granted to executive directors under the 2001 UK Approved Plan or the Global Share Plan 2010 are subject tothesame .
During2009, the   applicable togrants made under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan.
Option grants made to executive directors prior to 2009 were based on EPSA growth.
The Remuneration Committee has concluded that overall there should be a re-weighting of how EPSA is used across the range of short and long term incentive plans operated for executive directors.
Consequently,  forgrants made in2009was based onTSR.
If the Companys TSR is positioned above median when compared with the TSR of certain medical devices companies over a three year period commencing 1 January 2009, then the options shall become exercisable as follows: TSR  Percentage ofoptionvesting Beloworat Median Nil Median 35% Upper Quartile 100% Options shall vest on a straight line basis between these points.
If the Companys TSR performance is below median, no options shall vest.
The same comparator group as used for the 2004 Performance Share Plan, outlinedabove, hasbeenused.
The Companys TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is independently monitoredandreported .
The same performance conditions will apply to grants to be made in 2010 under the 2004 Executive Share OptionPlanexcept that only33%oftheoptionswillvest iftheCompanysTSR performanceisat median.
For options granted in 2007, 61% of the options granted under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan will vest in 2010.
Thisisas aconsequenceofEPSA % iii 2004 Co-Investment Plan The 2004 Co-Investment Plan was replaced by the Deferred Bonus Plan described above in 2009.
No awards weretherefore made in2009orwillbe made infuture.
The 2004 Co-Investment Plan enabled executive directors, executive officers and certain senior executives to take part of the annual bonus in the form of shares.
Under this plan, the participant elected the level of bonus to be used for this purpose up to a maximum of one half of the annual gross bonus capped at 20% of base salary.
The net amount of the gross amount elected was then used to purchase shares.
The shares were matched by the Company depending on growth in EPSA performance over a three year period, provided the shares are held for three years and the participant remains employed.
For awards made in 2007 which vested on 15 March 2010, the Remuneration Committee determined that one matching share will vest for each share acquired with bonusas EPSA growthamountedto45%.
66 iv Restricted Stock Awards Noissues ofrestricted stockawards weremade in2009toexecutive  officers.
The award of restricted shares made to David Illingworth in 2007 vested as to 100% on 11 February 2011 as the tradingmargintargets  infull.
v Other Long-Term Incentive Plans Across the Group, there are other long-term incentive plans in which certain executives below executive director level are eligible to participate.
The Remuneration Committee determines the value of awards granted to these executives.
Eligible UK participants, including executive officers may be granted options under the 2001 UK Approved Share Option Plan and the 2001 UK Unapproved Share Option Plan.
The exercise of the options is subject to EPSA growth of not less than RPI plus 3% per annum on average over a three year performance period.
There is no retesting of the performance conditions.
The awards made in 2007 will vest in their entirety in 2010 as EPSA  theRPI plus3%target.
Eligible US participants may be granted options under the 2001 US Share Plan.
In line with market practice, options granted under the 2001 US Share Plan are not subject to performance targets.
Awards made prior to 2008 are exercisable cumulatively up to a maximum of 10% after one year, 30% after two years, 60% after 3 years and the remaining balance after four years.
For awards made in 2008 and thereafter, options vest in equal tranches over three years.
Any awards of restricted stock under the 2001 US Share Plan are not subject to performance targets but are subject to the executive remaining with the Group for a specified period, normally twoyears.
Executive share options under all plans are offered at no less than the market value at the date of grant.
The 2001 UK Approved Share Option Plan, the 2001 UK Unapproved Share Option Plan and the 2001 US Share Plan all expire in 2011.
Authority will therefore be sought from shareholders at the AGM to be held on 6 May 2010 for the approval of a new Global Share Plan 2010 in which certain executives and key employees below executive directors will be eligible to participate on the same basis.
The Plan is explained fully in the notice of AGM anda copyofthePlanRules isavailable onrequest.
Keyfeatures ofthisproposed planare: All participants will participate in the Plan on the same basis, regardless of where they are located within the Group.
There will be separate schedules to cater for tax efficient variations within the UK and US, with the provision toadopt , ifrequiredat alater date.
The Plan will cater for the grant of share options and the award of performance shares andrestricted shares.
It is intended that options will be granted and performance shares awarded on an annual basis to certain participants, whilst restricted shares will be awarded on a one-off basis in particular circumstances to attract, retainandmotivate keyemployees.
The majority of eligible participants are US based and or at a relatively junior level in the Group where they are less likely to be in a position to influence key financial measures directly.
In common therefore with US practice, there will no performance conditions applying to options granted or restricted shares awarded under the Global Share Plan 2010.
There will however be performance conditions attaching to the performance share awards awarded under the Global Share Plan 2010.
Executive directors will not generally participate in the Global Share Plan 2010, as they receive options under the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, which are subject to performance conditions, as detailed above.
However, UK executive directors may receive options up to the value of 30,000 under the UK tax approved section of the Global Share Plan 2010 in the event that they do not currently hold the maximum value of UK tax approved options.
These options will be subject to the same performance conditions applying to UK unapproved share options awarded to them at the same time under the 2004 Executive Share OptionPlan.
