LEGALPROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but except as detailed below, management believes none of them will result in a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group accrues for outcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed accruals or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results .
Product LiabilityClaims In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
A number of related claims have been filed, most of which have been settled.
The aggregate cost to date related to this matter is approximately $210m.
The Group has sought recovery from its insurers.
To date the primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
An additional $22m was received from a successful legal settlement.
At 31 December 2009, at least $128m remains due, and the Group has sought coverage from five excess insurance carriers.
However, these excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in federal district court in Memphis, Tennessee, and hearing is expected to commenceinlate 2010orearly2011.
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connectionwith macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that the $25m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, however, therecanbe .
The Group faces other claims from time to time for alleged defects in its products and has on occasion recalled products to minimise risk of harm or claims.
The Group maintains product liability insurance subject to limits and deductibles that arebelieved reasonable.
BusinessPractice Investigations In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued subpoenas to the five largest sellers of hip and knee implants to US orthopaedic surgeons, including the Groups Orthopaedic business, asking for information regarding arrangements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
In September 2007, the Group and the other four companies involved settled the criminal and except for one other company civil matters with respect to any charges against the companies that could result from this investigation, without admitting any wrongdoing as part of the settlement.
The Group paid a civil restitution payment of $29m and entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the US Attorney which obligated the Group to improve its existing compliance program under the scrutiny of a monitor appointed to oversee its efforts.
This agreement was for 18 months and expired in March, 2009, resulting in dismissal of charges.
At the same time, the Group also entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of the Inspector General OIG of the US Department of Health and Human Services which requires certain compliance efforts.
This agreement is in effect for five years, until September 2012.
If the Group meets its terms, the OIG will not attempt to exclude it from receivingMedicare payments for its products.
The Group has devoted substantial effort to comply with both agreements and has applied the best practicesdeveloped  ofits business unitsas well.
In September 2007, the SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of companies in the medical devices industry, including the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA in connection with the sale of products in certain foreign countries.
The US Department of Justice subsequently joined the SECs request.
The Group is cooperating fully with the US Department of Justice and the SEC regarding these matters, has conducted a broader review on its own initiative, and has disclosed to them information indicating that at least one independent distributor of our products may have made payments that could have FCPA implications.
The Group is engaged in discussions to resolve these matters, but we cannot predictthe .
Patent Disputes The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement and, in some cases, breach of licence agreement.
These disputes are being heard 43 BR, Liquidity & Prospects in courts in the United States and other jurisdictions and also before agencies that examine patents.
Since the Groups entry intothe negative pressure woundtherapy business in2007, KineticConcepts, Inc. KCI has pursued claims of patent infringement against the Group in the US, UK, Germany and other jurisdictions.
In one case in Texas a jury found that KCIs patents were valid but not infringed by the gauze product acquired by the Group.
That ruling was upheld on appeal.
In another case in Texas relating to the Groups foam product, a jury found in March 2010 that KCIs patents were valid and infringed.
If affirmed by the courts, the group may be prevented from selling that foam product in the US until patent expiration in 2014.
The group plans to ask the court to disaffirm this finding and, depending on the outcome, may appeal the final decision.
In cases brought by KCI in Germany and the UK, the courts in 2009 invalidated the KCI patent at issue.
The German decision is subject toappeal: theUK decisionisfinal.
In June 2008, the Group won a jury verdict in Portland, Oregon against Arthrex Inc. Arthrex for infringement of a patent relating to suture anchors.
Smith & Nephew was awarded approximately $15m in damages plus approximately $6m interest and an injunction forbidding further sales of infringing suture anchors by Arthrex.
On appeal by Arthrex, the Court of Appeals reversed the decisionand remanded the case to the trial court.
A second lawsuit against other Arthrex suture anchors is also pending in the Oregon court.
In February 2010, the Group won another jury verdict against Arthrex in a Texas court for infringement of a patent relating to femoral fixation devices for ACL reconstruction.
The Group was awarded approximately $4.7 million in damages.
Other Matters In April 2009, the Group was served with a subpoena by the US Department of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production of documents from 1995 to 2009 associated with the marketing and sale of the Groups Exogen bone growth stimulator.
Similar subpoenas have been served on a number of competitors in the bone growth stimulator market.
Around the same time a qui tam or whistleblower complaint concerning the industrys sales and marketing of those products, originally filed in 2005 against the primary manufacturers of bone growth stimulation products including Smith & Nephew, was unsealed in federal court in Boston.
A motion to dismiss that complaintwas filed inDecember2009.
