THEBUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephews overall vision is to help improve peoples lives by repairing and healing the human body.
To achieve this, the Group is focused on continued delivery of sustainable profitable growth, through four strategic pillars: Customer led: outperforming our served markets by focusing on our customers: anticipating and .
Efficient: delivering operating margin improvement and freeing up resources to invest in the business,  re-engineering.
Investing for growth: driving additional sales from new opportunities such as biologics, emerging markets andadjacent technologies.
Aligned: aligning objectives across the business and developing our talent and organisation for consistent execution,  practices.
Group History The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the .
By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, including various medical devices, personal care products and traditional and advanced woundcare treatments.
In 1998, Smith & Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention and investment on three business units woundmanagement, endoscopy and orthopaedics which offered .
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the LondonStock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the  interms .
Today, Smith & Nephew is a public limited company incorporated and headquartered in the UK and doing business .
Recent Developments On 22 December 2009, the Group acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Nucryst Pharmaceuticals Corp. which exclusively licenses and manufactures our range of ACTICOAT products, using its nanocrystalline silver technology, SILCRYST.
Under the agreement, the Group acquired the manufacturing assets from Nucrysts operations in Canada and intellectual property rights relating to the nanocrystalline silver technology used in the manufacture of ACTICOAT product range.
Nucryst had manufactured ACTICOAT products forthe .
During March 2009, the Deferred Prosecution Agreement DPA with the United States Attorneys Office USAO for the district of New Jersey expired.
The 18-month agreement was one of five similar agreements entered into on 27 September 2007, between the USAO and the five largest companies that manufacture and sell hip and knee replacement implants.
Additionally, the USAO has dismissed the complaint it filed in connection with the DPA.
During the term of the DPA, Smith & Nephew operated under the oversight of a USAO appointed monitor and worked to improve the ways in which it manages its relationships with healthcare providers.
Smith & Nephew will continue its compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement signed with the Department of Health and Human Services, which has run concurrently with the DPA and will remain in effect until September 2012.
