THEBOARDANDEXECUTIVE OFFICERS &Nephewas at 17March2010comprised: Initiallyelected or Termofappointment Director Position appointed expires at AGM in JohnBuchanan Independent  3February2005 2011 DavidJ.
Illingworth Executive Director, ChiefExecutive 8February2006 2012 AdrianHennah Executive Director,  15June2006 2010 IanE.
Barlow Independent  5March2010 2010 Genevive B. Berger Independent  5March2010 2010 Dr. Pamela J. Kirby Independent  1March2002 2011 WarrenD.
Knowlton i Independent  1November2000 2010 BrianLarcombe Independent  1March2002 2011 Joseph C. Papa Independent  1August 2008 2012 RichardDeSchutter Independent  1January2001 2010 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg Independent  1January1998 2010 i  DirectorsBiographies John Buchanan, Independent non-executive Chairman.
John was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and became Chairman in April 2006 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc and a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
David J. Illingworth, Chief Executive, joined the Group in May 2002 as President of Orthopaedics and was appointed a director and Chief Operating Officer in February 2006.
In July 2007 he was appointed Chief Executive.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Officer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory  .
Adrian Hennah, Chief Financial Officer, joined the Group and was appointed a director in June 2006.
Ian E. Barlow, Independent non-executive director.
Ian was appointed a director on 5 March 2010 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of the PA Consulting Group and the Brunner Investment Trust, Chairman of Think London and a non-executive director of Candy& Candy.
Prof. Genevive B. Berger, Independent non-executive director.
Genevive was appointed a director on 5 March 2010.
She is Unilever executive, Chief Research & Development Officer at Unilever PLC and NV having previously served as a non-executive director.
Previously, she has been Chairman of the Health Advisory Board for the European Commission and a Professor at the University of Paris and Le Piti-Saptrire Teaching Hospital and DirectorGeneral  .
Dr. Pamela J. Kirby, Independent non-executive director.
Pamela was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Ethics and Compliance Committee.
She is non-executive  S. Warren D. Knowlton, Independent non-executive director.
Warren was appointed a director in November 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He served as Chairman and CEO of Graham Packaging to 31 December 2009 and is a  of Ameriprise FinancialInc.. Previouslyhewas GroupChiefExecutive .
Brian Larcombe, Independent non-executive director.
Brian was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of F&C Asset Management plc, gategroup HoldingAG .
48 Joseph C. Papa, Independent non-executive director.
Joe was appointed a director in August 2008 and is a member of the Ethics and Compliance, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Company.
Previously he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Pharmaceutical and Technology Services segment of Cardinal Health Inc. and President and Chief Operating Officer of Watson PharmaceuticalsInc.
Richard fide Schutter, Independent non-executive director.
Richard was appointed a director in January 2001 and is Chairman of the Ethics and Compliance Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation and a non-executive director of Varian Inc. Ecolab Inc. NavicureInc.
Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg, Independent non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
Rolf was appointed a director in 1998 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Hoyer GmbH, Biesterfeld AG andSeverstal.
ExecutiveOfficers The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to the executive directors, the following are executive officers of Smith & Nephew: Naseem Amin, Chief Scientific Officer.
Naseem joined the Group in 2009 prior to which he held a number of senior business development and research posts, most recently Senior VP of Business Development at Biogen Idec.
Mark Augusti, President of Biologics & Spine.
Mark joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President of Global Marketing for the Trauma Division, became President of Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies in February 2006 and was appointed to his current role inJanuary 2008.
He previously worked for GE Medical Systems in the US and Asia.
In 2009, Mark was also appointed to the board of Hutchinson Technology Inc. as an independent director.
Elizabeth Bolgiano, Chief Human Resources Officer.
Elizabeth joined the Group in June 2004, as Senior Vice President Human Resources for the Orthopaedics GBU.
In August 2007, she was appointed Group Human Resources Director.
Previously, she was Vice President Human Resources with Bristol-Myers Squibb, where she helda variety .
John W. Campo, Chief Legal Officer.
Jack joined the Group in June 2008.
Prior to joining the Group he was employed by General Electric Company for 14 years in a variety of roles, including seven years with GE Healthcare successortoGE MedicalSystems intheUS andAsia.
Joseph DeVivo, President of Orthopaedics.
Joe joined the Group in June 2007 as President of Orthopaedic Reconstruction and was appointed to his current role in May 2008.
Prior to joining the Group, he held senior executive positions with RITA Medical Systems Inc. Computer Motion Inc. and United States Surgical a divisionof TycoHealthcare.
Michael Frazzette, President of Endoscopy.
Mike joined the Group as President of Endoscopy in July 2006.
Previously he was President and Chief Executive Officer of a US manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at  ofthePatient Care, THCCanada andHealthSystems divisions.
R. Gordon Howe, Senior Vice President Global Planning and Development.
Gordon joined the Group in 1998, and served in planning and business development roles in the Orthopaedics division.
He was appointed to his current role in August 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, he held management positions with United Technologies Corporation.
Roger Teasdale, President of Advanced Wound Management.
Roger joined the Group in 1989 and has held a number of key roles in businesses within the Group, most recently as Senior Vice President of Advanced Wound Management.
Company Secretary Susan Henderson, Company Secretary.
Susan joined the Group in May 2009, prior to which she held a number   DeputyGroupSecretary ofPrudentialplc.
