BUSINESS OVERVIEW Smith & Nephews operations are organised into three primary business units that operate globally: Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management.
Smith & Nephew believes that its businesses have the opportunities for strong growth due to its markets benefiting from an ageing population, an increase in active lifestyles andtrends towardless .
Revenue bybusiness segment as apercentage oftotal revenuewas as follows: 2009 2008 2007 % % % Orthopaedics 57 57 55 Endoscopy 21 21 22 Advanced WoundManagement 22 22 23 Totalrevenue 100 100 100 Revenue bygeographicmarketas apercentage oftotal revenuewas as follows: 2009 2008 2007 % % % Europe  35 36 35 United States 44 44 46 Africa, Asia andAustralia andOtherAmerica 21 20 19 Totalrevenue 100 100 100 Underlying Growth in Revenue Underlying growth in revenue is a non-GAAP financial measure which is a key performance indicator used by the Groups management in order to compare the revenue in a given year to that of the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is achieved by adjusting for the impact both of sales of products acquired in material business combinations and for movements in exchange rates.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment .
Underlying growth in revenue reconciles to growth in revenue reported in accordance with IFRS by making two adjustments, the constant currencyexchange effect and the acquisitionseffect, described below.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which do ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group measures the performance of local managers using underlying growth in revenue whilst the Groups management additionally considers GAAP  theexcluded items bymonitoringagainst internalbudget amounts.
The constant currency exchange effect is a measure of the increase decrease in revenue resulting from currency movements on non-US Dollar sales.
This is measured as the difference between the increase in revenue translated into US Dollars on a GAAP basis i. e. current year revenue translated at the current year average rate, prior year revenue translated at the prior year average rate and the increase measured by translating   rate.
The acquisitions effect is the measure of the impact on revenue from newly acquired business combinations.
This is calculated by excluding the revenue from sales of products acquired as a result of a business combination consummated in the current year, with non-US Dollar sales translated at the prior year average rate.
Additionally, prior year revenue is adjusted to include a full year of revenue from the sales of products acquired in those business combinations consummated in the previous year, calculated by adding back revenue from sales of products in the period prior to the Groups ownership.
These sales are separately tracked in the Groups internal reportingsystems .
26 Reported  segment  follows: Constant currency Reported exchange Underlying growth effect growth % % % Orthopaedics 1 2 1 Endoscopy 1 2 1 Advanced WoundManagement 6 6 Totalrevenue 1 3 2 Reported  segment  follows: Constant currency Reported exchange Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Orthopaedics 16 2 9 5 Endoscopy 9 1 8 Advanced WoundManagement 8 1 7 Totalrevenue 13 2 5 6 Trading profit Trading profit is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuringevents: andgainsandlosses resultingfromlegal disputes anduninsuredlosses.
Operating  follows: Amortisation Restructuring ofacquisition and intangibles Operating Acquisition rationalisation and profit related costs costs impairments Tradingprofit $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Orthopaedics 410 26 26 46 508 Endoscopy 169 5 15 189 Advanced WoundManagement 144 11 5 160 Total 723 26 42 66 857 Operating  follows: Amortisation Restructuring ofacquisition and intangibles Operating Acquisition rationalisation and profit related costs costs impairments Tradingprofit $ million $ million $ million $ million $ million Orthopaedics 382 61 9 29 481 Endoscopy 146 4 16 166 Advanced WoundManagement 102 21 6 129 Total 630 61 34 51 776 27 BR, Liquidity & Prospects  segment as apercentage oftotal tradingprofitwas as follows: 2009 2008 2007 % % % Orthopaedics 59 62 60 Endoscopy 22 21 21 Advanced WoundManagement 19 17 19 Totaltradingprofit 100 100 100 Operating profitbybusiness segment as apercentage oftotal operatingprofitwas as follows.
2009 2008 2007 % % % Orthopaedics 57 61 49 Endoscopy 23 23 29 Advanced WoundManagement 20 16 22 Totaloperatingprofit 100 100 100 Factors Affecting Smith & NephewsResults of Operations Sales Trends Smith & Nephews business units participate in the global medical devices market and share a commonfocus on the repair of human tissue.
Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in the well-developed healthcare economiesoftheUS, Europe, Japan andAustralia.
These markets are characterised by an increase in the average age of the population caused by the immediate post-World War II baby boomer generation approaching retirement, increased longevity, more active lifestyles, obesity and increased affluence.
Together these factors have created significant demand for more effective healthcare products which deliver improved outcomes through technology advances.
Furthermore, pressure to resist increases in overall healthcare spending has led healthcare providers to demand products which minimise the  .
Increasing consumer awareness of available healthcare treatments through the Internet and direct-to-customer advertising hasled .
In orthopaedic reconstruction, improvements in technology have lengthened the effective life of implants and have facilitated the implantation of knees and hips in relatively young patients thereby improving the quality of life for a new generation.
Both the orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies markets are expected to continue to grow due to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also due to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain in younger, moreactivepatients.
The endoscopy market is benefiting from the continued trend worldwide towards less invasive surgery but with particular focus on arthroscopic repair of the knee and shoulder using a broad range of technology.
The Group also expects tobenefit fromthedemandforless .
The advanced wound management market is focused on the treatment of chronicwounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively unpenetrated and it is estimated that the potential market is significantly larger than the current market.
This increased penetration is expected to be driven by improved outcomes from new technology, health economic benefits, increasing nursing shortages, quality of life expectations and education of healthcare providers to convert from traditional to advanced treatments.
Innovation The Group must continuallydevelop its existing and new technologiesand bring newproductstoits customersto drive sales growth.
Expenditure on research and development in 2009 represented approximately 4% 28 2008 4% of Group revenue.
The focus of Smith & Nephews innovation is to create new products and surgical techniques with distinct advantages in clinical performance and cost-effectiveness benefits for clinicians, patients and healthcare providers.
In particular, the Group has brought together various initiatives across its businesses to focus on biologics, which are advanced, locally delivered biological therapies to promote healing andpainrelief.
Currency Movements Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs and expenses.
The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on sales and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting forward foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are placed.
In addition, the Groups policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and90% foruptooneyear.
The Groups revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
This exposure is offset partly because the Group incurs interest in currencies other than US Dollars on its indebtedness denominated in  Dollars.
Other Other than national governments seeking to control or reduce healthcare expenditure, see Risk Factor Dependence on Government and Other Funding management is not aware of any governmental economic, fiscal, monetary or political policies or factors that have materially affected, directly or indirectly, the Groups  byshareholders.
Critical Accounting Policies The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Note 2 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Of those, the  judgment areas follows: Inventories A feature of the Orthopaedics business whose finished goods inventory makes up approximately 75% of the Group total finished goods stock is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordancewith a formula based onlevels of .
Thisformula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old .
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required which would adversely impact operating results.
Retirement Benefits A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the Balance Sheet liability, operating  costs.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
For example a 0.5% increase in discount rate would reduce the combined UK and US pension plan deficit by $87m whilst a 0.5% decrease would increase the combined deficit by $97m.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate would decrease profit before taxation by $3m whilst a 0.5% decrease would increase it by $2m.
