10 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Key strengths Smiths Group implements its strategy by capitalising on its key corporate strengths, which are common across its portfolio of businesses.
Globally recognised quality brands Markets with historic long-term Our brands are recognised by customers defensive qualities across the world, particularly in protecting We operate in markets with historic transport, borders and the military Smiths long-term underlying defensive dynamics.
Detection, supplying vital oil and gas seals These include security enhancement to and services John Crane and airway and combat evolving terror threats, oil and pain management and regional gas production to meet global energy anaesthesia Smiths Medical.
demands, products to meet the growing healthcare needs of ageing populations and continual advances in wireless communications.
Product engineering Small batch, low-cost manufacturing Our core competency is leadership in Access to a global manufacturing and innovation and advanced technology and service footprint minimises costs and their practical, commercial applications.
allows us to sustain margins over the These include a new generation of security long term.
With around 22,000 staff in scanners for airports and borders, over 50 countries, we are pushing through advanced testers for mobile phone a programme of site rationalisation and networks, portable medication delivery relocation to low-cost countries, such as systems and solar-powered pumps for Mexico John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths remote gas wells.
Interconnect and Flex-Tek and Costa Rica and Tunisia Smiths Interconnect.
We create efficiencies through a lean divisional structure and a focus on customers.
We are expanding in high-growth markets such as China and India.
Low capital intensity and strong Close relationships with blue chip free cash-flow customers and governments Our businesses generally have low We enjoy strong relationships with requirements for major upfront capital our customer base, including blue chip commitments, allowing solid investment corporates, such as Motorola, Boeing, in research and development.
After working GE and Shell, governments, such as the capital and net capital expenditure, our US and UK, and government agencies operating cash-flow is a high percentage including the TSA.
