50 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Board of directors 1 5 2 6 37 4 8 51 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 1 Donald Brydon, CBE 5 Stuart Chambers # # Chairman Non-executive director Aged 64.
Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board in April Aged 53.
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board 2004, becoming Chairman in September 2004.
He is Chairman of the in November 2006.
He was formerly Chief Executive of Pilkington plc London Metal Exchange and of Royal Mail Holdings plc.
He had a and then Group Chief Executive of Nippon SheetGlass until August 2009.
20-year career with Barclays Group, during which time he was Prior to joining Pilkington plc in 1996, he spent ten years at Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management, Mars Corporation, latterly as Vice President, Sales & Marketing Mars followed by 10 years with the AXA Group.
He was also formerly Electronics International.
A chemical engineer by training, he previously Chairman of Amersham plc and a Director of Allied Domecq plc spent ten years at Shell in a variety of European roles.
He is Chairman of the David Rattray Memorial Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
6 Peter Jackson Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
# Non-executive director 2 Philip Bowman Aged 62.
Peter Jackson was appointed to the Board as a Chief Executive non-executive director in December 2003 and as senior independent Aged 56.
Philip Bowman was appointed Chief Executive in director in September 2004.
He was formerly Chief Executive of December 2007.
He previously held the positions of Chief Executive Associated British Foods plc and Chairman of Kingfisher plc.
He is chair at Scottish Power from early 2006 until mid 2007 and Chief Executive at of the Disabilities Trust.
He is currently the senior Senior independent director.
independent director of Burberry Group plc.
Past board appointments include British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Scottish & Newcastle Group 7 Anne Quinn, CBE # plc and Coles Myer Limited as well as Chairman of Liberty plc and Non-executive director Coral Eurobet plc.
His earlier career includes five years as a director of Aged 58.
Anne Quinn was appointed to the Board as a Bass plc now Mitchells & Butler plc and Intercontinental Hotel Group non executive director in August 2009.
She worked for BP in the UK, plc, where he held the roles of Chief Financial Officer and subsequently USA, Belgium and Colombia and held a number of positions, including Chief Executive of Bass Taverns.
Group Vice President of Gas and Natural Gas Liquids.
She has also been a managing director of the energy private equity group, Riverstone LLP.
3 John Langston She was a non executive director of BOC and is currently a non executive Finance Director director of Mondi plc.
She also serves on the President's Advisory Aged 59.
John Langston was appointed to the Board in Committee to the Sloan School, MIT.
Achartered accountant, he was appointed Finance Director in September 2006.
8 Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG # He previously held positions as Group Managing Director of Sealing Non-executive director Solutions, Group Managing Director of Detection and Group Managing Aged 62.
Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in Director of Specialty Engineering.
He joined TI Group in 1993, becoming June 2006.
He served widely in policy, management and finance posts Chief Executive of Bundy Automotive in 1996 and Chief Executive of in the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, NATO and finally the Ministry TI Specialty Polymer Products in 1998.
He was appointed a director of TI of Defence, where he was Permanent Under-Secretary of State from Group plc in October 1998.
He formerly worked for Lucas Industries.
July 1998 to his retirement in November 2005.
He is Chairman of He is a non-executive director at Rexam plc.
Finmeccanica UK and an adviser to JCB Limited.
He is Chairman of the Defence Advisory Group to the UKTI Defence and Security Organisation.
4 David Challen, CBE He is also Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, University of London and # Non-executive director Chairman of the Lifeboat Fund.
David Challen was appointed to the Board in September2004.
HeisVice-Chairman ofCitigroup European Investment Bank and former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd.
Heis also DeputyChairman of the Takeover Panel.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee
