41 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Legal issues Legal issues Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different jurisdictions.
The high level of activity in the US, for example, exposes the Company to the Smiths is committed to operating within the law likelihood of various types of litigation commonplace in that country, in all applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit such as mass tort and class action litigation, and legal challenges to the scope and validity of patents.
These types of proceedings or the from the rights and protections afforded by threat of them are also used to create pressure to encourage negotiated relevant laws.
The Company aims to anticipate settlement of disputes.
and meet the changing requirements of the In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects the Group to markets it serves, as legal and regulatory numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active reforms impact those markets.
programme of compliance, reporting and communication.
By contrast, the Groups activities in some countries with less developed legal systems pose challenges for the protection of corporate assets such as real estate and intellectual property rights.
In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities arising from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs experienced lawyers both in its head office and in its divisions, and retains the services of top law firms around the world.
John Crane, Inc. litigation John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of the Group, is currently one of many co-defendants in litigation in the USA relating to products previously manufacturedwhich containedasbestos.
This litigation began around30 years ago and, typically, involves claims for a number of diseases including asbestosis, lung cancer and mesothelioma.
The JCI products generally referred to in these cases consist of industrial sealing products, primarily packing and gaskets.
The asbestos was encapsulated within these products in such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of JCI, the products were safe.
John Crane ceased manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985.
In recent years, the litigation has focused increasingly on claims for mesothelioma, awards for which, when made, tend to be larger than those for the other diseases.
Whilst the number of claims being filed against JCI and other defendants has been declining, the proportion of mesothelioma claims has increased, and JCIs ability to defend these cases is likely to have a significant impact on its annual aggregate adverse judgment and defence costs.
JCI is actively monitoring the conduct and effect of its current and expected asbestos litigation, including the efficacious presentation of its safe product defence, and intends to resist all asbestos cases based on this defence.
Approximately 168,000 claims against JCI have been dismissed before trial over the last 30 years.
JCI is currently a defendant in cases involving approximately 129,000 claims.
Despite these large numbers of claims, JCI has had final judgments against it in only 82 cases, and has had to pay awards amounting to approximately US$82m over the 30-year period.
In connection with this litigation, JCI secured the commutation of certain liability insurance policies in financial year 2007, resulting in proceeds of 43m.
WhileJCI has substantial excess liabilityinsurance, the availability and exact scope of the cover are currently the subject of litigation in the United States.
An adverse judgment at first instance from the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois is currently under appeal.
Pending the outcome of that litigation, JCI has begun to meet defence costs directly.
At 31 July 2009, the aggregate provision for JCI asbestos litigation, including for adverse judgments and defence costs, amounted to 167m expressed at the then current exchange rate.
Movements in exchange rates in 2009 increased the provision by 26m.
In deciding upon the amount of the provision, JCI has relied on expert advice from a specialist in asbestos liability estimation.
Moreover, in establishing this provision no account has been taken of any recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are subject to pending litigation.
