52 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Group directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group are and, during the year ended 31 July 2009, were the development, manufacture, sale and support of: advanced security equipment, including trace detection, millimetre-wave, infrared, biological detection and diagnostics, that detect and identify explosives, narcotics, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards and contraband: mechanical seals, seal support systems, engineered bearings, power transmission couplings, specialist filtration systems and other hardware for the oil and gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp and paper and mining sectors: medical devices aligned to specific therapies, principally airway, pain and temperature management, infusion, needle protection, critical care monitoring and vascular access: specialised electronic and radio frequency products that connect, protect and control critical systems for the global wireless telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space and medical markets: and engineeredcomponents includingducting, hoseassemblies andheatingelements  fortheaerospace, medical, industrial, construction and domestic markets.
The main manufacturing operations are in the UK, the Americas, Continental Europe and China.
Business review future development research and development The business review on pages 16 to 49 is incorporated by reference, forming part of this Directors report.
This is a review of the development and performance of the business of the Group, including the financial performance during the financial year ended 31 July 2009: key performance indicators: and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
It also includes information on likely future developments and activities in the field of research and development.
The cautionary statement set out on the inside front cover of this Annual Report forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the business review.
Results and dividends The results for the financial year ended 31 July 2009 are set out in the Consolidated income statement.
Sales for the year amounted to 2,665m 2008: 2,321m.
The profit for the year after taxation amounted to 270.0m 2008: 268.8m.
An interim dividend of 10.5p per ordinary share of 37.5p was paid on 24 April 2009.
The directors recommend for payment on 20 November 2009 a final cash dividend of 23.5p on each ordinary share of 37.5p, making a total dividend of 34p for the financial year.
The retained profit of 270.0m was transferred to Reserves.
Changes in the Company and its interests during the financial year On 1 August 2008 Smiths Group disbanded its Specialty Engineering division and the Group now comprises five divisions Smiths Detection, John Crane, Smiths Medical, Smiths Interconnect and Flex-Tek that serve a diverse range of global customers including governments and their agencies, petrochemical companies, hospitals, telecommunications companies and manufacturers in a variety of sectors around the world.
On 1 September 2008 the Company completed the sale of land in Basingstoke for 16m in cash.
A further amount may be payable, depending on the final terms of such amended planning permission as may be granted.
On 3 November 2008 the Company converted the outstanding 459,157 issued B Shares into 224,463 ordinary shares, in accordance with the rights and restrictions attached to the B Shares as set out in the Companys articles of association.
The terms of the conversion were one ordinary share for every 2.04466 B Shares, fractional entitlements being disregarded.
A final dividend of 8.75p per B Share was paid on the outstanding B Shares in respect of the period from and including 16 April 2008 to but excluding 3 November 2008.
On 10 November 2008 the Company acquired the issued share capital of Zhejiang Zheda Medical Instrument Co. Ltd for a cash consideration of RMB 444.3m.
On 26 January 2009 the Companys registered office was changed to 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place, 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL.
On 26 February 2009 the Company issued US$175m of senior notes in the US private placement market with a fixed nine year maturity and a fixed coupon of 7.37%.
On 24 April 2009 the Company acquired all the issued share capital of Shenzhen Dowin Lightning Technologies for a cash consideration of RMB 197.6m.
On 14 May 2009 the Company acquired all the issued share capital of Orion Corporation for a cash consideration of US$72.1m.
On 14 May 2009 the Company closed a dual-tranche dollar-denominated offering, totalling US$500m in guaranteed senior notes.
US$250m was priced at a fixed coupon of 6.05% for five years and US$250m at a fixed coupon of 7.20% for 10 years.
On 22 May 2009 the Company announced that Smiths Group International Holdings Limited had unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed any sum payable by the Company under 150m 7.875% Bonds due 2010 and 150m 7.25% Bonds due 2016.
53 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Post balance sheet events There have been no disclosable post balance sheet events.
Charitable and political donations During the financial year the Company made donations of 504,000 for charitable purposes.
This comprised payments totalling 300,000 to the Institute of Child Health, in sponsorship of the Smiths Medical Professor of Anaesthesia and Critical Care and the Portex Anaesthesia, Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit, and other donations made by the Companys businesses worldwide to miscellaneous charities.
No political donations were made.
Directors Messrs P Bowman: D H Brydon, CBE: D J Challen, CBE: S J Chambers: P J Jackson: J Langston: and Sir Kevin Tebbit all served throughout the year.
Ms A C Quinn, CBE was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 August 2009.
Reappointment of directors Sir Kevin Tebbit and Ms Quinn will retire from office at the Annual General Meeting AGM in accordance with Article 55 1.
Sir Kevin and Ms Quinn are each willing and eligible to stand for re-election and resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to re-elect them.
Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report is on pages 65 to 73.
An ordinary resolution to approve the report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Directors interests in contracts Details of the executive directors service contracts are as disclosed in the service contracts section of the Directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 71.
Details of the interests of the executive directors in the Companys share option schemes and plans are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 72 to 73.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 have remained in force for the directors during the financial year ended 31 July 2009 and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the current directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or may have incurred to third parties in the course of their professional duties.
Apart from the exceptions referred to above, no director had an interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
Interests in voting rights As at 26 September 2009 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable interests in voting rights in its issued share capital: Percentage of issued ordinary share No.
of shares capital Aviva plc 12.1m 3.1% AXA S. A 19.4m 5.0% Legal & General Group plc 15.6m 4.0% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 19.1m 4.9% Newton Investment Management Limited 15.2m 3.9% Prudential plc including M&G Group 19.9m 5.1% Percentage of ordinary share capital in issue on 26 September 2009.
The interests of the directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report on page 70.
Corporate governance statement The Corporate governance statement is on pages 59 to 63 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
 LLP has reviewed the Companys statements as to compliance with the June 2008 issue of the Combined Code, to the extent required by the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The results of its review are set out in the Independent auditors report on page 75.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group: the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and the exposure of the Group to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash-flow risk are outlined in note 20 of the Group financial statements.
54 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Group directors report continued Going concern The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and forward plans, together with the internal control system, lead the directors to believe that the Group and the Company have sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The accounts are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Policy on payment of creditors TheCompanys policy andpracticeis to paycreditors promptlyin accordancewith agreedterms of business.
Theaveragetimetaken to payan invoice was 28 days 2008: 33 for the parent Company and 31 days 2008: 43 for the Group as a whole.
Share capital and control As at 31 July 2009, the Companys authorised share capital was 200,228,879.995, divided into 533,333,333 ordinary shares of 37.5p each nominal value ordinary shares, representing 99.9% of the total share capital, and 22,888,012 non-cumulative preference shares of 1p B Shares, representing 0.1% of the total share capital.
On 31 July 2009 there were 389,026,427 ordinary shares and no B Shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Theholders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts:to attendandspeakat General Meetingsof theCompany: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Following the conversion of all the outstanding B Shares into ordinary shares in November 2008, there are no rights attaching to the B share capital.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares: the B Shares have no rights, as described in the preceding paragraph.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee benefit trust, with an independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
On 31 July 2009 the trust held 105,932 ordinary shares in the Company.
The trust waives all but 0.1p per share of each dividend entitlement on its holding and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The table on page 53 sets out the notifications received by the Company pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules, as at 26 September 2009, from persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Companys share capital.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
New Articles of Association were approved by the Company in general meeting on 28 July 2008.
These took effect on 1 October 2008 and were adopted primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which had already come into force or which came into force on 1 October 2008.
The remaining provisions of the 2006 Act take effect on 1 October 2009.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to adopt new Articles of Association in order to take account of the implementation of the final provisions of the 2006 Act and the implementation in the UK of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009.
The powers of the directors are determined by English law and the Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
The directors have been authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Articles 6 and 7.
The directors have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
The powers to issue and allot shares and, subject to specified limits, to allot shares on a non pre-emptive basis, are referred to the shareholders at the AGM each year for renewal.
At the AGM the shareholders are also requested to renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Any ordinary shares so purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
The Company has in place credit facility agreements under which a change in control would trigger prepayment clauses and has bonds in issue the terms of which would allow bondholders to exercise put options and require the Company to buy back the bonds at their principal amount plus interest if a rating downgrade occurs at the same time as a change of control takes effect.
The Companys share schemes and plans contain clauses which cause options and awards to vest on a change in control.
The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
55 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 If there is a change in control of the Company prior to 10 December 2010, the terms of Mr Bowmans service contract allow him, at any time during the three months following the change in control, to resign and treat himself as redundant.
In this event, i Mr Bowman would be entitled to receive the sum payable on a Company-elected termination of his employment, as described on page 70, save that his bonus entitlement for the period from the start of the bonus year in which the termination falls to the end of any unserved notice period would be a minimum of 75% of base salary less any amount already paid to him in respect of the bonus year and ii all available discretions will be exercised under the Companys share schemes and in default the Company must indemnify Mr Bowman for the value of any awards that do not vest on the change in control.
No other director or employee is contractually entitled to compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change in control except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change in control.
Purchase of shares Pursuant to the Articles of Association, the Company purchased all the 20,648,272 deferred shares of 0.00001p each that resulted from the conversion of 459,157 B Shares into 224,463 ordinary shares on 3 November 2008, for an aggregate consideration of one penny.
The deferred shares were cancelled immediately after the purchase.
No other shares were purchased by the Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2009.
Corporate responsibility The Company has Group policies on environmental, health and safety matters and operates a Code of Business Ethics.
The Company seeks to minimise, as far as is reasonably practicable, any detrimental effects on the environment of its operations and products.
The Group HR director has responsibility for environmental, health and safety matters, which are subject to preventative, investigatory and consultative systems, overseen by the Group Environment, Health and Safety Committee, and reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
Issues relevant to the Company pension schemes are likewise covered by means of structured committees, including representation from recognised trade unions.
Further information on environmental and employee health and safety matters, including key performance indicators, is contained in the Corporate responsibility summary in the business review on pages 46 to 49.
The full Corporate responsibility report is available online at www.
Annual General Meeting The 2009 AGM will be held at The Thomas Lord Suite, Lords Cricket Ground, Grace Gate, St Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Tuesday 17 November 2009 at 2:30 pm.
Authority to issue shares At the AGM shareholders will be asked to renew and extend the authority, given to the directors at the last AGM under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company for the purposes of Section 551 of the 2006 Act the Allotment Resolution.
The authority in the first part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares in the Company or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company up to a nominal value of 48,637,728, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 September 2009.
The authority in the second part of the Allotment Resolution will allow the directors to allot new shares or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the Company only in connection with a rights issue up to a further nominal value of 48,637,728, which is equivalent to approximately one third of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 September 2009.
This is in line with corporate governance guidelines.
As at 26 September 2009, the Company did not hold any shares in treasury.
There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new shares other than in connection with the Companys share option schemes and plans.
The directors intend to take note of relevant corporate governance guidelines on the use of such powers in the event that the authority is exercised.
If the resolution is passed the authority will expire on the earlier of 31 January 2011 and the end of the AGM due to be held in 2010.
Also at the AGM shareholders will be asked to pass a special resolution to renew the power granted to directors to disapply shareholders pre-emption rights under certain circumstances the Pre-emption Resolution.
If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash other than in connection with an employee share scheme company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The purpose of the first part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the first part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash: a in connection with a pre-emptive offer: and or b , equivalentto5%, in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
56 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Group directors report continued The second part of the Pre-emption Resolution is to authorise the directors to allot new shares, pursuant to the authority given by the second part of the Allotment Resolution, or to sell treasury shares for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The directors intend to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
During the financial year ended 31 July 2009, the following ordinary shares in the Company were issued: 922,783 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the terms of the Companys shareholder-approved share option schemes and share plans: and 224,463 ordinary shares of 37.5p pursuant to the conversion of the B Shares.
No shares were issued in respect of the TI Group share option schemes.
Authority to purchase shares At the AGM the Company will seek to renew the authority, granted at the last AGM to the directors, to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The effect of the resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares, up to a maximum of 38,910,182 ordinary shares, until the AGM in 2010 or 31 January 2011 whichever is the earlier.
This represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 26 September 2009 and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable, which reflect the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Pursuant to the 2006 Act as amended, the Company can hold the shares which have been purchased as treasury shares and either resell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice as holding the purchased shares as treasury shares would give the Company the ability to re-sell or transfer them in the future, and so provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect of, treasury shares.
However, it is not the Companys present intention to hold shares in treasury in the event that any shares were to be purchased under this authority.
Shares will only be purchased if the directors consider such purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and that they can be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The authority will only be used after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out of treasury.
If any shares purchased by the Company are held in treasury and used for the purposes of its employee share schemes, the Company will count those shares towards the limits on the number of new shares which may be issued under such schemes.
As at 26 September 2009 there were 7.6m outstanding options granted under all share option schemes operated by the Company, which, if exercised would represent 2.0% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
If this authority were exercised in full, that percentage would increase to 2.2%.
57 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Political donations A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to renew the authority, granted by the shareholders at the last AGM to the Company and its subsidiaries, to make donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure.
Part 14 of the 2006 Act requires companies to obtain shareholders authority for donations to registered political parties and other political organisations totalling more than 5,000 in any twelve month period, and for any political expenditure, subject to limited exceptions.
The definition of donation in this context is very wide and extends to bodies such as those concerned with policy review, law reform and the representation of the business community.
It could include special interest groups, such as those involved with the environment, which the Company and its subsidiaries might wish to support, even though these activities are not designed to support or influence support for a particular party.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure as those expressions are normally understood.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the 2006 Act, the directorsare seeking shareholders authorityfor the Companyand its UK subsidiaries to make political donations and to incur political expenditure during for the period from the date of the AGM to the conclusion of next years AGM up to a maximum aggregate amount of 50,000.
Auditor Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint  LLP as auditor, to hold office until the next meeting at which the accounts are laid, and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Articles of Association A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to adopt new Articles of Association in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the implementation on 1 October 2009 of the remaining parts of the 2006 Act and the implementation on 3 August 2009 of the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
A summary of the principal differences between the existing Articles and the proposed new Articles is included in the explanatory notes set out in the Notice of AGM.
Copies of the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours until the conclusion of the AGM on 17 November 2009 and, on the day of the meeting, from 2:15 pm at the place of the Meeting until the close of the Meeting.
Notice period for extraordinary general meetings A special resolution will be proposed at the AGM to permit the minimum notice period for calling a general meeting of the Company other than an AGM to remain at 14 clear days.
Changes made to the 2006 Act by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Before the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations on 3 August 2009, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, such approval is sought at the AGM.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Disclosure of information to the auditor As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
com The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic communication e-communication and enables companies to provide documentation  viatheirwebsites,  who electtoreceivehard printedpaper copies by post.
E-communication allows shareholders faster access to important information about the Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, by reducing its print production costs and postage: and helps the environment by saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed documents.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 11 June 2007 shareholders approved the adoption of electronic communications.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2009 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address can be found at www.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
58 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Group directors report continued Electronic proxy voting The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website www.
The onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 17 November 2009 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
Registrar The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder information is available online, through the www.
Dividend payments continue to be made through Lloyds TSB Bank.
The shareholder helpline telephone number is 0871 384 2943.
Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a UK BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary.
Important information If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you received this document in printed form from the Company and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Group plc, please pass this documentto the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer was effectedfor transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Recommendation Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the resolutions in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Sarah Cameron Secretary Smiths Group plc 2nd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL 29 September 2009
