18 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Business review: Employees Smiths Detection 2,400 Smiths Detection is a world leading designer and manufacturer of sensors that detect and identify explosives, weapons, chemical agents, biohazards, narcotics and contraband.
Stephen Phipson Our technology helps customers in the global President transportation, ports and borders, critical infrastructure, military and emergency responder Contribution to 2009 Contribution to 2009 markets.
We have the most comprehensive range Group sales Group headline of detection technologies in the world, including operating profit X-ray, trace detection, millimetre-wave, infra-red, biological detection and diagnostics.
19% 14% Percentage relates to headline operating profit before corporate costs Principal operating regions Our eight manufacturing centres are concentrated in North America, Germany, France and the UK.
We sell to over 100 markets around the world either through a sales and marketing company or a third-party distributor.
Customers A significant majority of sales are influenced by more than 100 governments and their agencies, including homeland security authorities, customs authorities, emergency responders and the military.
These include the US Department of Defense, US Transportation Security Administration TSA, UK Ministry of Defence, and airport operators such as BAA in the UK.
Competitors Data published by IMS Research shows that, in the combined transportation, critical infrastructure and ports & borders sectors, Smiths Detection has a 31% market share, compared to its main competitors being L3 Security & Detection Systems 10.5%, Rapiscan Systems 9.7%, Nuctech 8.6% and AS&E 6.4%.
In the Military and Emergency responder markets, which are not included in this data, the main competitors are General Dynamics, Bruker, Environics and Canberra.
Sales performance The World Market for Explosives, Weapons & Contraband Detection Equipment 2009 Edition 2009 501 Suppliers We are redesigning our supply chain model to maximise shared 2008 509 component parts and reduce costs across the division while taking into 2007 438 account the growing demand for local sourcing, particularly in North America.
Our supplier base is being adapted accordingly while ensuring 2006 412 quality and delivery requirements are maintained.
2005 367 Sales by sector: 501m 1 Transportation 36% 6 2 Ports & borders 11% 3 Military 26% 5 1 4 Emergency responders 6% 5 Critical infrastructure 13% 6 Non-security 8% 4 3 2 19 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Markets and trends Smiths Detection products serve the transportation, ports and borders, military, emergency responder and critical infrastructure markets.
The business also adapts technology developed for these markets for carefully selected industrial applications in diagnostics, life sciences, food quality and safety.
Homeland security remains a priority in western countries, with 11% annual growth expected over the long term.
However, government spending and airport operator investment have been affected by the current global economic downturn which has in turn caused delays to orders.
As a result, recent growth rates have been lower in certain segments of the wider homeland security market.
The worldwide market for Smiths Detection products and services is worth an estimated 3.5 billion.
The transportation sector, which includes airports, is the largest representing 36% of total sales.
In the short term, airport investment has slowed in certain markets as passenger and air cargo traffic has declined.
However, over the long term the airport security market is expected to grow in response to: projected long term growth in air traffic: new security threats: and customer pressure for faster throughput at checkpoints and an improved passenger experience.
Expanding in the US The ports and borders market has been affected by the global slowdown Our Edgewood, Maryland, facility almost doubled in size to 130,000 .
square feet in a $3.5m expansion designed to meet the record level of However, over the long term, this is expected to be a growth sector orders from the Department of Defense.
These include vehicle driven by government objectives of enhancing security screening and integration programmes, such as the Chemical Biological Protective protecting tax revenues.
Customers require mobile and fixed units Shelter and the Profiler which gathers real-time meteorological data to capable of detecting explosives, weapons, radioactive materials, assist the accuracy of military operations.
The plant expansion has also narcotics and contraband.
allowed increased production of JCAD, the advanced chemical agent detector designed to help safeguard troops by automatically detecting The military market for UK and US technology is restricted by export chemical threats and toxic industrial chemicals.
controls, and these two governments comprise a major slice of the market which is characterised by tendering opportunities for large individual contracts that typically run for several years.
Smiths Detection continues to develop new business by increasing systems integration activity, offering improved functionality in protective shelters and introducing new technologies through government-funded partnerships.
Within the emergency responder sector, the US accounts for more than 50% of global demand.
This market is characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and stable market trends.
The critical infrastructure market is diversified with varying growth rates in the different segments.
Smiths Detection focuses on three key areas: mass transit, sports and events, and government and military facilities.
Smiths Detection has a growing involvement in helping protect a number of important metro systems in both the US and Europe.
Demand for greater hotel security has also increased substantially in the wake of the Mumbai attacks in November 2008.
A possible future market is with biological detection and its application to veterinary diagnostics.
Smiths Detections expertise in producing rugged, portable sensor equipment has enabled the development of a field-based device which can detect a range of animal infections such as foot-and-mouth and avian flu.
It could also be developed for clinical applications such as combating the spread of the H1N1 flu virus.
 and the perception of threat from terrorist activity or other security issues.
This perception itself has been and is likely to remain variable.
20 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Performance Business review: 2009 2008 Reported Underlying m m growth growth Smiths Detection Sales 501 509 2% 17% Headline operating profit 63 93 32% 43% continued Headline operating margin 12.6% 18.3% Statutory operating profit 63 93 Reported sales declined 2%, or 8m, reflecting a currency benefit of 91m offset by a decrease in underlying sales of 99m, or 17%.
As previously announced, this reflects the increasingly variable nature of the order flow of this largely government contracting business.
The majority of this decline is caused by the ports and borders segment which has seen repeated delays to several contract tender processes underway in different markets.
In addition, the prior period benefited from a large Russian contract.
Excluding ports and borders, underlying sales for Smiths Detection declined by 5%.
This decline reflects lower sales primarily in transportation and non-security, offset by strong growth in the military area which has had its best ever year.
The fall in sales volumes together with the associated lower cost absorption is the principal driver of the lower margins and the 43% 47m decline in underlying headline operating profit.
We are taking action to address the cost base and have begun a restructuring project that will rationalise our manufacturing facilities.
We have announced the closure of a satellite site in Wiesbaden, the consolidation of two existing New Jersey sites into a new facility and the closure of two UK sites.
We are currently assessing opportunities for further site rationalisation.
We have already reorganised the business into Security & Inspection, which will focus on airports, ports and borders and critical infrastructure, and Military and Emergency Response.
Underlyingsalesin transportationfell by19%whichreflects goodgrowth in the US offset by weaker sales in EMEA.
US sales have benefited from the introduction of a new generation of airport checkpoint explosive detection systems which, unlike conventional systems, can capture multiple views of carry-on bags in a single sweep.
The systems also include software algorithms that help the operator detect potential threat items and they can easily be upgraded to meet future threats.
Airports in Europe and other markets have been slower to adopt the new technology while trials are still underway, and the current economic downturn has prompted governments and airport operators to review the timing of some projects.
The ports and borders market has seen a 59% underlying decline in sales following a strong performance in the first six months of last year which benefited from a large contract in Russia.
Average contract size has grown over recent years as governments have become more co-ordinated in their approach to border security and customs revenue protection.
As a result, the sales profile in this business has become more variable and the working capital requirement has also increased.
Our leading-edge technology leaves us well placed to benefit from long-term growth prospects.
For instance the US has mandated that 100% of arriving cargo be scanned by 2012.
We continue to tender on some substantial projects in several markets.
In July 2009, we won a $10.6m order for mobile, high-energy cargo screeners.
Since the year end, we have won confirmed orders for a further 20m from several different markets.
21 Smiths Group plc Annual report 2009 Military sales enjoyed their strongest year on record with underlying sales up 42% through the ongoing JCAD programme.
We received furtherorders from theUS Departmentof Defense amountingto $179m during the year.
The lightweight JCAD is an advanced chemical point detector designed to help safeguard troops by automatically detecting, identifying and quantifying both chemical warfare agents and toxic industrial chemicals.
We also won a $19m contract from the US Army for Meteorological Measuring Set-Profiler MMS-P systems, taking the total programme value to over $89m to date.
The MMS-P gathers realtime meteorological data to assist the accuracy of military operations.
The implementation of a new ERP system began during 2008 and will complete by the end of calendar year 2009.
This single system replaces 14 legacy business software systems and provides a common information platform to support data-driven decision-making.
Sixteen sites representing 70% of sales have now gone live with the new system.
 project will generate efficiencies in working capital of 11m and annual cost savings of 8m.
Research and development Smiths Detection has maintained its leadership in the sector through a consistent commitment to product innovation developed by in-house R&D, government-funded research and through partnerships and licences.
Company-funded R&D increased by 21% to 35m or 6.9% of sales 2008: 5.6% of sales.
This includes 10m of capitalised projects.
Smiths Detection actively seeks customer and government support for Scanner nets record drug haul R&D which totalled 10m in the period 2008: 9m.
Total R&D spend Advanced HCV cargo scanners are tested at the new Alcoa, Tennessee, was 45m 2008: 38m or 8.9% of sales.
Smiths Detection recently won a $10.6m order from the US Government.
Their high-energy x-rays can penetrate steel as thick as The principal focus for R&D investment continues to be X-ray for a 280mm 11 inches and a range of fixed and mobile versions are used by variety of applications, including baggage scanning at airports and cargo customs authorities across the world to detect threat items, contraband screening at ports and borders.
The next generation of cargo screening and drugs.
In June 2009, a Smiths Detection mobile HCV helped the equipment is able to discriminate between different materials in a single French authorities uncover the biggest haul of illegal drugs ever seized pass.
Our airport checkpoint explosive detectors are currently on a road in France.
Almost 700 kilos of cocaine, with a street value of undergoing trials for the software that would allow automatic detection around $70m, was discovered hidden in a truckload of potting soil near of suspect liquids in carry-on baggage.
We have also launched an advanced people-screener which for the first time uses electronic, real-time imaging in a standard checkpoint layout to detect weapons or explosives concealed under layers of clothing, without physical contact.
The new system, called eqo, is based on patented millimetre-wave technology.
Our techniques in chemical and trace detection have continued to develop and have supported the launch of several new products during the year including the High-Performance Radioisotope Identifier HPRID and the Multi-Mode Threat Detector MMTD.
Diagnostics continues to be an area of focus with development of a portable biological detection system that enables veterinarians to carry out rapid on-site diagnosis of animal diseases.
The same technology is now being developed for clinical applications such as the detection and identification of MRSA, clostridium difficile and other infectious diseases.
Outlook Smiths Detection has had a positive start to the year although we are cautious about how the current economic environment may affect the timing of orders from governments, given that some of their finances remain under significant pressure.
Longer term, we believe that the sector is set for sustained growth and Smiths Detection will benefit from its leadership position andtheroll-outof innovativeproducts.
As a result, we shall continue to invest in research and development to launch new products while restructuring the business to lower costs and support margin improvement.
