SOCO International plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Board of Directors Robert Cathery 65 Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO International since June 2001 and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Over 40 years of City experience.
Formerly, Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. director of Vickers da Costa and director of Schroders Securities.
From left to right Currently, a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander Energy PLC, Indigovision plc and Central Asia Metals Limited.
Olivier Barbaroux 54 Non-Executive Director Ed Story 66 A member of the Board of SOCO International since President and Chief Executive Officer Mike Watts 53 July 1999 and a member of the Remuneration and A member of the Board of SOCO International since Non-Executive Director Nominations Committees.
April 1997 and a member of the Nominations Committee.
A member of the Board of SOCO International plc since Formerly, Managing Director of Compagnie Gnrale Formerly, a non-executive director of Cairn Energy August 2009 and a member of the Audit and Nominations des Eaux, President and Chief Operating Officer of PLC, President of Snyder Oil Corporations international Committees.
Head of the Energy Sector of Paribas subsidiary, Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Formerly, the CEO and Managing Director of Amsterdam and Chairman and CEO of Coparex International.
Company, Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil Company listed Holland Sea Search which was acquired by Cairn Currently, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of and holder of various positions with Exxon Corporation, Energy PLC in 1995 and holder of senior technical and Dalkia and a member of the Executive Committee including seven years resident in the Far East.
management roles with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
Currently, a non-executive director of Cairn India Limited.
Currently, Deputy CEO of Cairn Energy PLC.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Rui fide Sousa 54 Over 40 years of experience with the Portuguese Ministry Non-Executive Chairman of Foreign Affairs, including as Foreign Minister of A member of the Board of SOCO International since Portugal, and with international organisations, including July 1999 and Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
as UN High Representative for Elections in Cte dIvoire.
Currently, a director of Quantic Limited, a director of Currently, a member of the Board of the Angolan Bank Formerly, Chief Financial Officer of Snyder Oil Gazprombank-Invest Lebanon SAL and Chairman of BPA Banco Privado do Atlntico, a member of the Corporations international subsidiary and of Conquest Carbon Resource Management Ltd.
Supervisory Board of the Portuguese Bank BCP Banco Exploration Company.
Comercial Portugus Millennium, President of the Currently, Non-Executive Chairman of Dominion Petroleum Luso-Brazilian Foundation Curators Council and a Ltd and a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited.
John Norton 72 member of the Faculty of Human and Social Sciences Non-Executive Director General Council of the Universidade Nova fide Lisboa.
A member of the Board of SOCO International since April Peter Kingston 67 1997 and a member of the Audit and Nominations Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Committees.
Martin Roberts 66 and Senior Independent Director A Chartered Accountant by profession and a partner at Non-Executive Director A member of the Board of SOCO International since Arthur Andersen, heading the oil and gas practice in Europe, A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 and Chairman of the Remuneration and the Middle East and Africa, until his retirement in 1995.
September 2004 and a member of the Audit and Audit Committees.
Formerly, a member of the Oil Industry Accounting Remuneration Committees.
A petroleum engineer who has worked in the oil and Committee and a director of the Arab-British Chamber A Solicitor by profession and a partner of Slaughter gas industry since 1965 in various roles.
and May, specialising in oil and gas projects, until his Formerly, a founding director of Enterprise Oil plc, retirement in 2002. then Managing Director Technical and a director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd. Antnio Monteiro 66 Currently, Executive Chairman of Tower Resources Non-Executive Director Roger Cagle 62 plc and a director of Plexus Energy Limited, a social A member of the Board of SOCO International plc since Executive Vice President, Deputy CEO and environmental advisory network.
June 2009 and a member of the Audit and Remuneration and Chief Financial Officer Committees.
A member of the Board of SOCO International since Formerly, the Ambassador of Portugal to France and the April 1997.
Ettore Contini 36 Permanent Representative of Portugal to the United Over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry Non-Executive Director Nations where posts included being President of the including succeeding positions of responsibility with A member of the Board of SOCO International since Security Council and of the Security Councils Committee Exxon Corporation and senior management roles with December 2001. established by Resolution 661 1990.
SOCO International plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Annual Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual report, along with the audited financial statements of the Group Cynthia Cagle Vice President Finance and Company Secretary Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37 Directors Holding Office during 2009 Director Date of contract Rui C fide Sousa 12.07.99 Chairman Peter E Kingston 14.05.97 Dep Chairman & Senior Independent Director Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 John C Norton 14.05.97 Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 Antnio V Monteiro 10.06.09 appointed 10 June 2009 The Directors present their annual report, along John C Snyder 14.05.97 with the audited financial statements of the resigned 10 June 2009 Group for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Edward T Story 14.05.97 The Corporate Governance Report on pages Mike Watts 21.09.09 40 to 47 forms part of this report.
appointed 14 August 2009 Denotes those determined by the Board to be independent Principal Activity and Non-Executive Directors as described in the Corporate Business Review Governance Report on pages 40 to 47.
The Groups principal activity is oil and gas exploration and production.
The Group has its headquarters in London and has oil and gas interests in Vietnam, Thailand, Congo Brazzaville, the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and Angola.
The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group Mr Rui fide Sousa and Mr Roger Cagle retire are listed in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Results and Dividends by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Peter The audited financial statements for the year ended Kingston, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr John Information fulfilling the requirements of section 31 December 2009 are set out on pages 60 to 81.
Norton, having served on the Board for more than The Directors intend to devote the Groups cash 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act nine years, are subject to annual reppointment and paragraph 4.1.
8 of the Disclosure and resources to its exploration and development and will also retire at the AGM.
Ambassador activities and, accordingly, are not recommending Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Antnio Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts also retire, Authority DTRs can be found within the reports the payment of a dividend 2008 nil.
having been appointed by the Board since the described below, which are incorporated into last AGM.
Each of the retiring Directors offers this report by reference.
A fair review of the themselves for reappointment, being eligible and performance and development of the Groups having been recommended for reappointment The Directors intend business during the year, its position at the end by the Nominations Committee.
of the year and its future prospects is contained in to devote the Groups the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement on The Nominations Committee carefully considered cash resources to its pages 10 to 12: the Review of Operations on its recommendations regarding the reappointment pages 14 to 21: and the Financial Review on of retiring Directors with regard to the policies exploration and pages 22 to 25.
The principal risks and and processes set out in more detail in the development activities uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 47, Financial Review on page 25 and, in respect of and in particular in respect of each Directors the principal financial risks, in Note 3 to the continued independence and the relevance of Directors financial statements.
As set out in the Corporate tenure.
The Board has given full consideration Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 32, which The Directors who served during the year, and to the balance of skills, knowledge and unique the dates of their current service contracts or forms part of this report, SOCO is committed to breadth of experience on the Board and the high standards of corporate responsibility.
The key letters of appointment, which are available manner in which each of the retiring Directors for inspection, are listed in the table above.
performance indicators KPIs used by contributes to that balance.
In particular, the management are set out on pages 16 and 23, and All Directors held office throughout the year Board has considered the value of continuity except as noted in the table.
Mr Snyder, having are summarised along with pertinent definitions of leadership, and these factors have been in the Five Year Summary on page 82.
The determined that he will reduce his business weighed in consideration of succession planning commitments generally, retired from the Board Company does not currently include personnel, and the need to refresh Board and Committee health, safety and environmental measures as at the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In accordance with the Combined Relevant details of the Directors, which include reported KPIs, reflecting the small staff size and Code, the Chairman, having given consideration relatively small size and scope of projects directly their Committee memberships, are set out on to the results of the Boards formal evaluation pages 34 to 35.
Further details of Directors, operated by the Company.
KPIs will be developed process and other relevant factors, is satisfied for reporting on these areas at an appropriate their interests in the shares of the Company, that the other retiring Non-Executive Directors their interests in any contracts relating to the time in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
offering themselves for reappointment continue Information about the use of financial instruments Companys business and Directors contracts to demonstrate the commitment level appropriate are included in the Directors Remuneration by the Company and the Group is included in Note to the effective fulfilment of the responsibilities 2 n and Note 23 to the financial statements.
Report on pages 48 to 56. of the role.
SOCO International plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Annual Report of the Directors continued Share Capital Details of changes to share capital in the period are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The Company currently has one class of share in SOCO provides liability insurance for its Directors issue, ordinary shares of 20 pence each, all of and officers.
The annual cost of the cover is not which are fully paid.
However, a resolution will be material to the Group.
The Companys Articles of proposed at the 2010 AGM to approve the No shareholder is, unless the Board decides Association allow it to provide an indemnity for sub-division of the ordinary shares already in otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either the benefit of its Directors, which is a qualifying issue.
In recent years the price of the Companys personally or by proxy at a general meeting or indemnity provision for the purpose of section ordinary shares has risen to the point where they to exercise any other right conferred by being a 233 of the 2006 Act.
Directors of the Company are now one of the most highly priced ordinary shareholder if he or she or any person with an are appointed either by the Board or by shares compared with comparator companies interest in shares has been sent a notice under shareholders under the terms of the Companys quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers Articles of Association.
The business of the closing mid-market price for one ordinary share upon public companies the power to require Company is managed by the Directors who may on 23 March 2010 the latest practicable date information with respect to interests in their exercise all powers of the Company subject to before the publication of this document was voting shares and he or she or any interested the Articles of Association and law.
The Board believes that it is appropriate person failed to supply the Company with the to propose the sub-division of each of the information requested within 14 days after ordinary shares into four new ordinary shares of 5 delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide pence each the New Ordinary Shares pursuant that no dividend is payable in respect of those The appointment of to Resolution 12 the Share Split.
This should default shares and that no transfer of any default improve the liquidity and may reduce the bid offer shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end Ambassador Monteiro spread of the Companys ordinary shares.
seven days after receipt by the Company of a and Dr Watts has notice of an approved transfer of the shares or If the proposed Share Split proceeds, it is all the information required by the relevant added specific and expected that the price of each New Ordinary section 793 notice, whichever is earlier.
complementary skills Share will become approximately one-quarter of the price of an ordinary share currently in The Directors may refuse to register any transfer to the Board issue.
This will reflect the fact that shareholders of any share which is not a fully-paid share, will own four times as many ordinary shares.
although such discretion may not be exercised Shareholders should however note that, subject in a way which the Financial Services Authority Articles of Association to market movements the aggregate value of regards as preventing dealings in shares of that The Directors are proposing specific amendments their shareholdings should remain the same.
class from taking place on an open or proper at the 2010 AGM to the Companys Articles of basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse any Association to reflect changes in English company The New Ordinary Shares will carry the same transfer of a share in favour of more than four law brought about by the 2006 Act, and rights in all respects as the current ordinary persons jointly.
as amended by the Companies Shareholders shares, including voting rights and rights to Rights Regulations 2009.
Further information participate in dividends of the Company, and The Company is not aware of any other regarding these changes is set out in the circular will be transferable in the same manner as restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report the ordinary shares already in issue.
the Company other than certain restrictions that and Accounts.
may from time to time be imposed by laws and Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights regulations for example, insider trading laws : Supplier Payment Policy including one vote per share on a poll at general and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment meetings of the Company, subject to the terms Services Authority whereby certain employees of with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each of the Companys Articles of Association and law.
the Company require approval of the Company transaction to ensure that suppliers are made Shares held in treasury carry no such rights for to deal in the Companys shares.
aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
so long as they are held in treasury.
Votes may be As the Company is a holding company, it has exercised by shareholders attending or otherwise The Company is not aware of any agreements no trade creditors and accordingly no disclosure duly represented at general meetings.
Deadlines between shareholders that may result in can be made of the year end creditor days.
for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a poll restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting at a general meeting are detailed in the notice of rights.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2010 Charitable Contributions meeting and proxy cards issued in connection AGM to authorise the Directors to exercise all Information regarding the Companys global with the relevant meeting.
Voting rights relating powers to allot shares and approve a limited charitable programmes, which are principally to the shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit disapplication of pre-emption rights.
Further carried out in the countries where the Group Trust are not exercised.
The Companys Articles information regarding these resolutions is set has operations, is contained in the Corporate of Association may only be amended by a out in the circular to shareholders accompanying Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 32. resolution of the shareholders.
this Annual Report and Accounts.
Governance SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 39 Substantial Shareholdings Issued Shares Warrants Name of Holder Number % Held Number Pontoil Intertrade Limited 19,020,166 23.01 447,171 BlackRock, Inc. 9,051,852 10.95 Chemsa Ltd 6,346,183 7.68 325,215 Legal & General Group Plc 2,973,214 3.60 Ed Story 2,874,459 3.48 Going Concern A resolution will also be proposed at the 2010 It should be recognised that any consideration AGM to renew the Directors existing authority of the foreseeable future involves making a to make market purchases of the Companys judgement, at a particular point in time, about ordinary share capital, and to limit such authority future events which are inherently uncertain.
to purchases of up to 33,065,784 ordinary shares Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of of 5 pence each in the event Resolution 12 is these accounts and after making enquiries, passed: or otherwise, 8,266,446 ordinary shares the Directors have a reasonable expectation of 20 pence each, in either case, respresenting up that the Group has adequate resources to to approximately ten per cent of the Companys continue operating for the foreseeable future.
issued ordinary share capital, excluding treasury For this reason, and taking into consideration shares at 23 March 2010.
Shares purchased the additional factors in the Financial Review under this authority may either be cancelled or on page 25, they continue to adopt the going held as treasury shares.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial Substantial Shareholdings Directors Responsibilities for the information included on the Companys website.
As at 23 March 2010, the Company had been Financial Statements Information published on the internet is notified, in accordance with the DTRs, of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the accessible in many countries with different legal interests in the issued share capital of the annual report and the financial statements in requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Company and warrants to subscribe for ordinary accordance with applicable United Kingdom law governing the preparation and dissemination of shares of the Company Warrants as set out in and International Financial Reporting Standards financial statements may differ from legislation the table above.
as adopted by the European Union both for the in other jurisdictions.
Auditors Directors Responsibility Statement A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Deloitte as The Directors are required to prepare financial The Directors confirm that, to the best of each the Companys auditors will be proposed by the statements for each financial year that give a persons knowledge: Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte also true and fair view of the financial position of the provide non-audit services to the Group which are a the financial statements set out in pages 57 to Company and of the Group and the financial set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The performance and cash flows of the Group for that 81, which have been prepared in accordance with Directors are currently satisfied, and will continue applicable United Kingdom law and International period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors to ensure, that this range of services is delivered are required to select suitable accounting policies Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the in compliance with the relevant ethical guidance and then apply them consistently: present of the accountancy profession and does not information and accounting policies in a manner assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: impair the judgement or independence of the that provides relevant, reliable and comparable auditors.
Each of the Directors at the date of information: and state that the Company and the and approval of this report confirms that, so far as he Group have complied with applicable accounting is aware, there is no relevant audit information, standards, subject to any material departures b the management report, which is being information needed by the auditors in disclosed and explained in the accounts.
incorporated into this report, includes a fair connection with preparing their report, of which review of the development and performance of the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken The Directors are responsible for keeping the business and the position of the Company all steps that he ought to have taken, having proper accounting records which disclose with and the Group taken as a whole, together with made such enquiries of his fellow Directors and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial a description of the principal risks and the auditors and taken such other steps as are position of the Company and the Group and uncertainties that they face.
required under his duties as a Director, to make enable them to ensure that the accounts comply himself aware of any relevant audit information with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible By order of the Board and to establish that the auditors are aware of for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 23 March 2010 that information.
This confirmation is given and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps should be interpreted in accordance with the for the prevention and detection of fraud and Cynthia Cagle provisions of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
