60 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Gastrointestinal Our marketed products Losec Prilosec was first launched in 1988 and is approved for the treatment of GERD.
Nexium esomeprazole is the first proton pump We continue to maintain certain patent inhibitor PPI for the treatment of acid-related In brief property covering Losec Prilosec.
diseases to offer clinical improvements over other PPIs and other treatments.
Sales of Nexium $5 billion, down 1%.
Losec Prilosec is available both as Losec Prilosec omeprazole is used for the short-term and long-term treatment of acid-related diseases.
a prescription-only medication and, in Nexium oral and intravenous was approved in the EU and other markets for the short-term some countries, as an OTC medication Entocort budesonide is a locally acting corticosteroid maintenance of haemostasis and prevention for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.
where it offers consumers a more effective of re-bleeding in patients following therapeutic self-medication option for the treatment of endoscopy for acute bleeding gastric or duodenal ulcers.
heartburn compared to antacids and H2 Our strategic objectives receptor antagonists.
In 2009, an agreement An sNDA for Nexium was submitted for risk We aim to maintain our strong position in to license rights for Losec for OTC use to reduction of peptic ulcers associated with low-dose acetylsalicylic acid therapy in patients gastrointestinal GI treatments by continuing Bayer Consumer Care AG was announced.
New Nexium line extensions This agreement will extend the number of include prevention of re-bleeding in patients markets in which Losec is available as an Losec Prilosec sales $946 million, declining in the EU and the US due to continuing generic erosion.
with peptic ulcer bleeding and prevention OTC product.
Overall sales down 10%: Japan sales increased of low-dose aspirin associated peptic ulcers.
Our R&D is focused on finding new, innovative In November, the FDA issued a Public Health A Danish court issued an injunction against sales ways for treating acid-related disease.
Advisory to consumers and Information of generic esomeprazole magnesium by Sandoz for Healthcare Professionals about the A S Sandoz.
The injunction prohibits Sandoz Our focus label update to Plavix clopidogrel about from selling, offering for sale or marketing the pharmaceutical products Esomeprazole Sandoz Our key marketed products interactions with Prilosec and Prilosec OTC and other pharmaceutical products containing Nexium is marketed in approximately 100 and potentially with other medicines that esomeprazole magnesium with an optical purity countries and is available in oral tablet inhibit the CYP2C19 enzyme, including of equal or greater to 99.8% enantionmeric excess in Denmark.
capsules and oral suspension and intravenous Nexium.
AstraZeneca has full confidence i. v. dosage forms for the treatment of in the overall benefit risk and safety profile AstraZeneca filed applications in Austria seeking acid-related diseases.
Nexium is an effective of Losec Prilosec and Nexium.
We will interlocutory injunctions to restrain Hexal Pharma GmbH and 1A Pharma GmbH, both companies short-term and long-term therapy for patients continue to evaluate thoroughly the safety in the Sandoz group, from marketing products with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and effectiveness of Losec Prilosec and containing generic esomeprazole magnesium GERD.
Nexium is also approved for the Nexium in accordance with AstraZenecas in Austria.
treatment of GERD in children one to 17 years procedures.
AstraZeneca is involved in AstraZeneca initiated legal proceedings in Portugal of age.
For the treatment of active peptic ulcer ongoing dialogue with the FDA, the EMEA to suspend approvals for Sandozs generic disease, seven-day Nexium triple therapy and the CHMP about any pharmacological esomeprazole.
In October the court granted AstraZeneca a preliminary injunction against in combination with two antibiotics for the interaction and its clinical relevance.
Sandoz, suspending the efficacy of the marketing eradication of H. pylori heals most patients and price approvals for Sandozs generic without the need for follow-up anti-secretory Entocort is approved for the treatment of esomeprazole.
The decision has been appealed by the Portuguese authorities.
In Europe and other markets, Nexium two types of inflammatory bowel disease.
is approved for the healing and prevention Entocort capsules are approved for use both In January 2010, AstraZeneca settled US Nexium of ulcers associated with NSAID therapy, as an acute treatment of and for maintenance patent litigation against Teva Pharmaceuticals Ltd Teva Pharma and affiliates.
AstraZeneca has including cyclooxygenase 2 selective of remission for mild to moderate Crohns granted Teva Pharma a licence to enter the US inhibitors.
In the US, Nexium is approved for disease.
Entocort enema is approved in some market with its generic esomeprazole, subject to reducing the risk of gastric ulcers associated markets for the treatment of ulcerative colitis.
regulatory approval, on 27 May 2014, or earlier in certain circumstances.
Teva Pharma conceded with continuous NSAID therapy in patients at Entocort has better tolerability compared to validity enforceability of all patents in Teva risk of developing gastric ulcers.
Nexium is other corticosteroids in the treatment of both Pharmas US Nexium patent litigations and that also approved in the US, the EU, Canada and conditions.
In Crohns disease, Entocort Teva Pharmas proposed generic esomeprazole would infringe six US Nexium patents.
Australia for the treatment of patients with also has greater efficacy than aminosalicylic the rare gastric disorder, Zollinger-Ellison acid medicines.
Patent litigation continuing in the US against other syndrome.
Following treatment with Nexium i. v. generic manufacturers following an ANDA relating to Nexium.
oral Nexium is approved in the EU and other Clinical studies of key marketed products markets for the maintenance of haemostasis Data from the LOTUS study a multinational, In Canada, Patented Medicines Notice of and prevention of re-bleeding of gastric or randomised study of 554 patients in which Compliance Regulations proceedings involving Apotex relating to Nexium continued.
Nexium was compared to surgery for the is scheduled to commence on 31 May 2010. management of GERD has now reported five Nexium i. v. which is used when oral years of follow-up.
The results show that both administration is not suitable for the treatment therapies are very effective, with proportions of GERD and upper GI side effects induced by of patients still in remission above 90% and NSAIDs, is approved in 86 countries including with both therapies being well tolerated.
the US and all EU countries.
Nexium i. v. is also The paediatric GERD programme in the approved in the EU and other markets for youngest age group of zero to one year of the short-term maintenance of haemostasis age has been completed and submissions and prevention of re-bleeding in patients to regulatory authorities have commenced.
following therapeutic endoscopy for acute bleeding gastric or duodenal ulcers.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 61 Reviews Our financial performance 2009 2008 2007 2009 compared to 2008 2008 compared to 2007 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Nexium 4,959 73 168 5,200 121 105 5,216 1 5 2 Losec Prilosec 946 105 4 1,055 156 68 1,143 10 10 14 8 Other 106 21 4 89 2 3 84 24 19 2 6 Total 6,011 157 176 6,344 275 176 6,443 2 5 4 2 Therapy area world market AstraZeneca conducted two studies, For the full year, sales of Losec Prilosec fell MAT Q3 09 OBERON and ASTERIX, to evaluate the 10% to $946 million.
Prilosec sales in the safety and efficacy of Nexium in the US were down 63% as a result of continued prevention of gastric and or duodenal generic erosion.
Outside the US, Losec sales ulcers in patients who take low-dose aspirin were flat, despite increases in China 21% acetylsalicylic acid ASA 75-325mg and Japan 8%.
continuously during the studies, which is B defined as at least five days per week.
The Performance 2008 results of these studies are described in more Reported performance detail in the Cardiovascular section from page GI sales for 2008 were down 2% on a reported A 56.
In April 2009, AstraZeneca submitted an basis to $6,344 million from $6,443 million sNDA for the low-dose ASA 75-325mg in 2007. indication for Nexium and an NDA for the new product Axanum based upon the Performance CER growth rates Market sectors $bn findings in these studies.
Growth in Canada A PPI 26.0 9%, Japan 5% and Emerging Markets 20% B Other 13.0 In the pipeline more than offset the 5% decline in sales in Our research activities focus on reflux our Western Europe markets.
The GI world market is valued at $39 billion, inhibitors and hypersensitivity therapy.
Our with the PPI market accounting for $26 billion.
lead compound, lesogaberan AZD3355, Nexium sales were down 2%, excluding the In the West ie Europe and North America between is undergoing clinical studies in Phase II.
effects of exchange, to $5,200 million from 10-20% of adults suffer from GERD.
The prevalence of GERD in Asia is lower, but increasing.
Despite Follow-up compounds are in different stages $5,216 million the previous year.
The decline effective PPI treatments, around 40% of patients up to Phase II testing.
was driven by the decrease in the US of 8% do not achieve full relief from symptoms.
to $3,101 million, however, this was largely Litigation mitigated by sales outside the US increasing Detailed information about material legal by 9% to $2,099 million.
In the US, dispensed proceedings relating to our GI products can be retail tablet volumes increased 2% and found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements Nexium was the only major PPI brand to do from page 166. so in 2008.
39bn Financial performance 2009 2008 For the full year, sales of Losec Prilosec fell Performance 2009 14% to $1,055 million.
Prilosec sales in the The GI world market is valued at Reported performance US were down 25% as a result of generic $39 billion, with the proton pump GI sales for 2009 were down 5% on a reported competition for the 40mg dosage form in the inhibitor market accounting for basis to $6,011 million from $6,344 million second half of the year.
Outside the US, $26 billion in 2008.
Losec sales declined by 11%, despite increases in China 19% and Japan 5%.
Performance CER growth rates GI sales fell by 2% at CER.
Global Nexium sales were down 1% to $4,959 million from $5,200 million the previous year.
The decline was driven by the decrease in the US of 9% to $2,835 million, however this was largely mitigated by sales outside the US increasing by 9% to $2,124 million.
In the US, dispensed retail tablet volumes decreased by less than 1% despite increased generic and OTC competition.
In respect of Nexium, there was growth in Canada 11%, Western Europe 7% and Emerging Markets 15%.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
