Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 65 Reviews Neuroscience Our marketed products Our focus Our key marketed products Seroquel quetiapine fumarate is an atypical anti-psychotic Seroquel is a leading atypical anti-psychotic drug approved for the treatment of schizophrenia and In brief treatment for schizophrenia and bipolar bipolar disorder mania, depression and maintenance.
Seroquel XR an extended release formulation of quetiapine disorder.
Seroquel remains the most commonly Total Seroquel sales up 12% to $4.9 billion.
fumarate is generally approved for the treatment of prescribed atypical anti-psychotic treatment schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and in some territories in the US, where it is the only atypical Seroquel has been granted Paediatric Exclusivity for MDD and GAD.
Approved use for Seroquel and in the US as a result of studies conducted in Seroquel XR varies based on territory.
anti-psychotic approved as monotherapy children and adolescents, which will provide an treatment for both bipolar depression and Zomig zolmitriptan is used for the treatment of migraines additional six months of exclusivity to market with or without aura.
bipolar mania as well as the leading atypical Seroquel in the US.
brand globally by sales value.
Diprivan propofol is an intravenous general anaesthetic In December, the FDA approved Seroquel XR used in the induction and maintenance of anaesthesia, as an adjunctive treatment to anti-depressants light sedation for diagnostic procedures and for intensive First launched in 1997, Seroquel is now in adults with major depressive disorder MDD.
AstraZeneca also received a Complete Response approved in 94 countries.
Seroquel XR, Letter for its Seroquel XR submission for MDD as Naropin ropivacaine is a long-acting local anaesthetic, an extended release formulation that offers acute and maintenance monotherapy in adults replacing the previous standard treatment of bupivacaine.
patients and doctors a once-daily treatment, and for acute therapy in the elderly.
Xylocaine lidocaine is a widely used short-acting was launched in the US for the treatment of local anaesthetic.
In September, Seroquel XR and Seroquel were schizophrenia in 2007 and is now approved in approved under the European Mutual Recognition EMLA lidocaine prilocaine is a local anaesthetic for 63 countries for schizophrenia, 38 countries Procedure for the prevention of recurrence in topical application.
for bipolar mania, 37 countries for bipolar depression and eight countries, including In December, the FDA approved Seroquel for the US, for bipolar maintenance, in three the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents 13 to 17 years of age as monotherapy, and for the Our strategic objectives markets for major depressive disorder MDD, acute treatment of manic episodes associated Disorders of the central nervous system and in one market for generalised anxiety with bipolar I disorder in children and adolescents CNS represent the number one disease disorder GAD.
10 to 17 years of age, both as monotherapy and 1 as an adjunct to lithium or divalproex.
burden today in high-income countries.
In many other world regions, including Asia, In January 2009, the FDA granted a six-month The EU submission for Seroquel XR for the the prevalence of CNS disorders is expected Paediatric Exclusivity to Seroquel for its treatment of MDD received a negative opinion in 2 May but has been referred to the CHMP and the to grow substantially as the standard of licensed indications, based on studies that we outcome is anticipated in the first quarter of 2010. living increases.
We aim to strengthen our conducted in adolescents with schizophrenia, position in neuroscience through further and in children and adolescents with bipolar Seroquel XR submissions for generalised anxiety disorder GAD received a Complete Response growth of Seroquel and Seroquel XR and mania.
The six-month Paediatric Exclusivity Letter from the FDA in February 2009 adult by the successful introduction of a range of will extend the exclusivity to market Seroquel population and in September elderly population.
new medicines aimed at significant medical in the US to March 2012.
Global development and licence agreement with need in psychiatry, analgesia pain control Targacept for Targacepts late-stage compound and cognition, including Alzheimers disease In September, Seroquel and Seroquel XR TC-5214.
and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
were approved in the EU for the prevention In-licence of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 from Nektar.
of recurrence of bipolar disorder in patients Psychiatry whose manic, mixed or depressive episode AstraZeneca established several neuroscience Most branded schizophrenia products will face has responded to treatment with Seroquel or research collaborations in 2009, amongst which is a collaboration with Jubilant in the areas of generic competition in the period 2012 to 2015, Seroquel XR.
Following this new indication, chemical lead generation and lead optimisation to with major current atypical anti-psychotic Seroquel and Seroquel XR are the only agents support our efforts in analgesia and neurology.
Future demand will approved in the EU to treat all phases of The US Court of Appeals affirmed a Summary be for products with significantly improved bipolar disorder, acute depressive episodes, Judgment Motion granted to AstraZeneca in the efficacy and tolerability.
The depression and acute manic episodes and maintenance patent infringement actions commenced against anxiety markets are currently dominated by treatment to prevent recurrence of any mood two generic drug manufacturers in the US following the filing of ANDAs relating to Seroquel.
generic selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors event in bipolar disorder.
and serotonin norepinephrine re-uptake Three consolidated ANDA patent infringement inhibitors.
As growth in the US slows, the In 2008, regulatory submissions were made lawsuits, previously filed in the US against Handa, Accord and Biovail, proceed in discovery.
Japanese and other Asian markets continue for the use of Seroquel XR in MDD and GAD.
The three ANDAs seek approval to market to expand due to increased diagnosis and use In December 2008, the FDA approved generic copies of Seroquel XR before the expiry of pharmacological treatments in response Seroquel XR as an adjunctive treatment to of its patents.
to both targeted government programmes anti-depressants in adults with MDD.
The FDA Personal injury actions in the US and Canada and wider acceptance of pharmacological also issued Complete Response Letters in involving Seroquel are being defended vigorously, treatments.
Generic growth is anticipated over December 2009 for the monotherapy with successful results to date in the US.
the next five years as patents expire, which will submissions as acute and maintenance Agreement in principle reached with the US make market entry for new innovative products therapy in adults and acute therapy in the Attorneys Office to settle claims relating to more difficult in the medium and longer term.
The MDD application in the EU was Seroquel sales and marketing practices and to make a payment of $524 million including interest.
rejected in May and AstraZeneca has now Final settlement is subject to negotiation of a civil It will be increasingly important to develop new settlement agreement and a corporate integrity medicines addressing the needs of specific 1 agreement.
Other litigation and government WHO ranking 2008, disease burden measured by investigations regarding sales and marketing patient segments, and to work closely with the disability adjusted life years.
2 practices are being defended vigorously.
Brookmeyer R et al, Alzheimers & Dementia 2007: specialists in the medical community and the Arthritis Foundation, American Chronic Pain public health sector to address the growing Foundation, Reforming Chinese Healthcare through burden of psychiatric disease on society.
Public-Private Partnership, Swiss Re May 2007.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 66 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Our financial performance 2009 2008 2007 2009 compared to 2008 2008 compared to 2007 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Seroquel 4,866 521 107 4,452 346 79 4,027 12 9 9 11 Diprivan 290 18 6 278 3 18 263 6 4 1 6 Zomig 434 2 16 448 3 17 434 3 1 3 Local anaesthetics 599 27 33 605 13 35 557 4 1 2 9 Other 48 2 4 54 7 2 59 4 11 12 8 Total 6,237 566 166 5,837 346 151 5,340 10 7 6 9 Therapy area world market referred the application to the CHMP, with in analgesia and neurology.
AstraZeneca MAT Q3 09 the outcome anticipated in early 2010. has also entered into a collaboration with PsychoGenics, Inc. to support behaviour Complete Response Letters for the Seroquel profiling of new medicines across several XR GAD submission were received from the disease areas.
Furthermore, AstraZeneca D FDA in February 2009 adult population and has entered into a research agreement with C September elderly population.
The application Duke University to identify novel strategies was considered unfavourably by an FDA and targets for better treatment of bipolar A Advisory Committee in April 2009: dialogue disorder using optogenetics.
with the FDA remains ongoing.
Analgesia and anaesthesia B In December, the FDA approved Seroquel for pain control the treatment of schizophrenia in adolescents Major unmet need remains for improvements in 13 to 17 years of age as monotherapy, and both efficacy and tolerability in the neuropathic Market sectors $bn for the acute treatment of manic episodes pain market, including addressing the needs associated with bipolar disorder in children of specific patient segments such as those A Psychiatry 56.7 B Neurology 40.1 and adolescents 10 to 17 years of age, both with debilitating conditions, for example C Analgesia 29.9 as monotherapy and as an adjunct to lithium mechanical hypersensitivity.
It is believed D Anaesthesia 4.9 or divalproex.
that advances in the understanding of the mechanisms which lead to neuropathic pain The neuroscience world market totals In the pipeline will allow for improved patient segmentation $132 billion.
The medical need in neuroscience AstraZeneca and Targacept have entered and, potentially, this could increase the is significant.
into a strategic collaboration and licence success rate of research in this condition.
Depression and anxiety disorders remain under-diagnosed and under-treated, with 15% agreement for the global development and of the population suffering from major depression commercialisation of Targacepts late-stage The osteoarthritis OA market is steadily at least once in their lives.
TC-5214 is being growing, due to ageing populations and novel around 1% of the adult population, and 17 million people suffer from bipolar disorder across the major developed as an adjunct to anti-depressant agents entering the market.
Chronic pain is the most common reason therapy in adults with MDD who do not established use of branded generic treatment for seeking medical care.
Alzheimers disease respond adequately to 1st line anti-depressant makes market entry more difficult.
Biologics affects approximately 24 million people worldwide predicted to reach 40 million by 2020 and current treatment.
TC-5214, which recently completed are an emerging treatment option for OA, and therapy does not signicantly change the course a Phase IIb study, is a nicotinic ion channel this is an area in which we have an active of this progressive neuro-degenerative disorder.
blocker that is thought to treat depression by interest through our biologics activities.
modulating the activity of various neuronal nicotinic receptor subtypes.
AstraZeneca Our focus and Targacept will jointly design a global Our key marketed products Phase III clinical programme, anticipated In 2009, Zomig nasal spray was approved to begin in mid-2010, with the goal of filing for the acute treatment of migraine attacks an NDA in 2012. in adolescents 12 to 17 years of age in 14 132bn member states in the EU.
The neuroscience world market We have progressed AZD8418 into Phase I totals $132 billion and AZD8529 into Phase II for the treatment of Diprivan is the worlds best-selling intravenous schizophrenia.
AZD7268 entered into Phase II general anaesthetic.
A complete changeover for the treatment of depression and anxiety.
to Diprivan EDTA, a microbial-resistant Development of AZD7325 was discontinued.
formulation, will be effective from 2010.
In 2009, AstraZeneca entered into a number EMLA submissions approvals of patch of research collaborations, including those presentation have continued, particularly mentioned below.
AstraZeneca has entered in Europe.
In Japan, EMLA is out-licensed to into a research collaboration with Jubilant in Sato Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. which expects the area of new chemical lead generation and to file a Japanese new drug application for optimisation effectiveness to support our efforts EMLA cream in 2010.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 67 Reviews In the pipeline of establishing efficacy in clinical studies.
has entered a Phase IIa study in CDS.
Vimovo PN400 is a fixed-dose combination Current treatments, which physicians consider AZD1446 has entered Phase IIa studies in tablet of enteric-coated naproxen and inadequate, target the symptoms, not the ADHD and AD.
immediate release esomeprazole which uses underlying cause, of the disease.
Growth in this proprietary technology licensed from Pozen area is strong 20% to 40% across the world Litigation Inc. through a collaboration established in but all existing marketed treatments will face Detailed information about material legal August 2006.
It is being developed for the relief patent expiry by 2015.
Disease modification, proceedings in respect of our Neuroscience of signs and symptoms of OA, rheumatoid delivered through biologics and or small products can be found in Note 25 to the arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis in patients molecule treatments, is clearly the hope for Financial Statements from page 166. at risk of developing NSAID-associated gastric AD patients.
Along with better diagnostics, it ulcers.
Risk factors for the NSAID-associated is expected to allow for earlier intervention and Financial performance 2009 2008 gastric ulcers include age, a documented better clinical outcomes, but the first wave of Performance 2009 history of gastric ulcers, or concomitant use disease modifiers is still several years away.
Reported performance of low-dose aspirin.
OA is the most common Neuroscience sales on a reported basis form of arthritis and the most common cause Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder ADHD grew by 7% to $6,237 million in 2009 from 3 of chronic pain, affecting nearly 151 million affects 22 million children worldwide plus $5,837 million in 2008. individuals worldwide.
The PN400 Phase III another several million adults.
While there are studies demonstrated that patients at risk of a number of treatments available today, which Performance CER growth rates developing NSAID-associated gastric ulcers work well for many of these young patients, Neuroscience sales grew by 10% to $6,237 taking PN400 experienced significantly fewer they also carry certain risks because a great million from $5,837 million last year.
endoscopically confirmed gastric ulcers majority of them are psycho-stimulants compared with patients taking enteric-coated mostly amphetamines and methylphenidate.
US sales for Seroquel all formulations for the naproxen 500mg alone.
An NDA was filed We continue to work on treatment options full year were $3,416 million, 13% ahead of in June.
The FDA has confirmed that the that would offer strong efficacy without the last year.
Seroquel all formulations remains proposed trade name for PN400, Vimovo, challenges that current treatments bring.
the market leader in the US anti-psychotic is acceptable and that it will be re-reviewed We also hope to offer new options to adult market, with a total prescription share of 31.3% 90 days prior to the approval of the NDA.
ADHD patients, many of whom remain in December 2009.
A regulatory filing in the EU was submitted undiagnosed or untreated today.
For the full year, Seroquel all formulations Our focus sales outside the US increased by 8% In September, AstraZeneca licensed two In the pipeline to $1,450 million.
In the Rest of World potential products, NKTR-118 and NKTR-119, The current portfolio of potential medicines ie excluding the US and Canada value and from Nektar.
NKTR-118, an oral peripherallyin this area includes six development volume growth for Seroquel were well ahead acting opioid antagonist, is in clinical programmes, of which three are in clinical of the atypical anti-psychotic market.
development for the treatment of opioid evaluation in AD, ADHD and cognitive induced constipation OIC, which is the key disorders in schizophrenia CDS.
In addition to Sales of Zomig for the full year were down gastrointestinal GI side effect of opioid developing molecules for cognitive disorders, 3% in the US to $182 million.
Sales outside treatment for pain, for which there are limited we continue to progress one development the US were up 3% to $252 million.
Data from phase molecule for the treatment of other a Phase II study demonstrated that oral neurodegenerative diseases.
Performance 2008 Reported performance NKTR-118 improved lower GI dysfunction by increasing the frequency of bowel movements Through our collaboration with the Karolinska Neuroscience sales grew by 9% in 2008, up in patients with OIC, while simultaneously Institute in Sweden, the Banner Alzheimers to $5,837 million from $5,340 million in 2007. preserving opioid-mediated pain relief.
Institute in Phoenix, Arizona and others, All geographic areas experienced growth our R&D capabilities in positron emission and Seroquel all formulations grew strongly NKTR-119 is an earlier-stage programme that combines NKTR-118 with an opioid, tomography PET imaging of the human by 11%.
with the goal of treating pain without the side brain continue to progress.
AstraZenecas effect of constipation traditionally associated amyloid PET ligands may enable us to detect Performance CER growth rates AD early and to assess drug effects in AD.
Neuroscience sales grew by 6% to $5,837 with opioid therapy.
We have discovered and taken into patient million from $5,340 million in 2007.
AZD2423 has progressed into Phase I studies studies two C-11 amyloid PET ligands, which and AZD2066 has entered into Phase II studies are being developed as research biomarkers.
US sales for Seroquel all formulations for the Additionally, a collaboration with the Mental full year were $3,015 million.
For the full year, for the treatment of neuropathic caused by nerve damage pain.
AZD3043, a short-acting Health Research Institute in Australia has been Seroquel all formulations sales outside the US anaesthetic, has entered Phase I studies.
initiated to develop new ways of identifying increased by 8% to $1,437 million.
In the Rest Additionally, we have extended our research AD patients at early stages of the disease.
of World ie excluding the US and Canada value and volume growth for Seroquel were collaboration with the University of Heidelberg to further understanding of the pathophysiology Compounds in clinical evaluation include well ahead of the atypical anti-psychotic of chronic pain conditions.
products deriving from our relationship with market in all regions.
Cognition AZD3480, a neuronal nicotinic receptor agent, Sales of Zomig for the full year were up 6% Alzheimers disease AD remains one of the is currently in Phase II clinical testing in ADHD.
Sales outside the largest areas of unmet medical need and also In 2009, Targacept announced top-line results US were down 5% to $261 million.
one of high risk for neuroscience product from a Phase IIa ADHD study in which the 3 development, due in part to the challenges primary outcome measure was met.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
