While it is unlikely that there will $488 million 2008: $255 million.
It surpassed regulatory authorities in the US and the EU, be widespread adoption of a broad national a 15% total prescription share and a 17% including: Crestor for a new indication, as an price-control scheme in the near future, new prescription share of the inhaled sNDA based on the results of the JUPITER there will continue to be increased attention corticosteroid long-acting beta-agonist study, Vimovo, Certriad, motavizumab and to pharmaceutical prices and their impact on market.
Symbicort pMDI is now prescribed Symbicort pMDI as an sNDA for paediatric healthcare costs for the foreseeable future.
to 26% of all patients who are new to use as well as sNDAs for Seroquel XR for combination therapy.
In February 2009, it was generalised anxiety disorder acute, In 2010, we anticipate there will be continued approved for the maintenance treatment of maintenance and use in elderly, and for the focus on health reform that may result in the airflow obstruction in patients with chronic use of Seroquel XR as monotherapy for the implementation of changes in legislation and obstructive pulmonary disease, including treatment of patients with major depressive regulation.
AstraZeneca believes that every chronic bronchitis and emphysema.
disorder acute, maintenance and use in American should have affordable health elderly.
Further information about the status insurance and prescription drug coverage.
Synagis is the only FDA-approved MAb to of these submissions and others is contained In reviewing different health reform proposals help protect high-risk babies against severe in the Therapy Area Review from page 55. that Congress is considering, AstraZeneca respiratory syncytial virus RSV.
In 2009, will ask whether any particular provision: sales in the US were $782 million 2008: Currently, there is no direct government $923 million.
Sales in the 2009-2010 RSV control of prices for commercial prescription Promotes market competition that leads season started slower than anticipated due to drug sales in the US.
However, some publicly to improved health outcomes payer pressure as a result of the introduction funded programmes, such as Medicaid and Ensures patient safety is maintained of more restrictive guidelines regarding the TRICARE Department of Veterans Affairs, or enhanced use and dosing of Synagis by the American have statutorily mandated rebates and Expands coverage for the uninsured Academy of Pediatrics and the adoption of discounts that have the effect of price controls Fosters and rewards innovation these guidelines.
Additionally, pressure Provides protection for intellectual property.
on pricing, availability and utilisation of AstraZenecas monovalent H1N1 influenza prescription drugs for both commercial and For further discussion of the proposed US swine flu vaccine, which is made using public payers continues to increase, driven healthcare reforms, see the Competition, the same technology and process as by, among other things, an increased focus price controls and price reductions section AstraZenecas seasonal influenza vaccine, on generic alternatives.
Primary drivers of on page 83.
FluMist, was approved by the FDA in increased generic use are budgetary policies September for the same patient population within healthcare systems and providers, In its fourth year of operation, the Medicare as FluMist patients two to 49 years of age.
including the use of generics only formularies, Part D prescription drug programme AstraZeneca began shipping product to the and increases in patient co-insurance or maintained high levels of enrolment and US Department of Health and Human co-payments.
In 2009, 75% of the beneficiary satisfaction.
It also achieved Services HHS in September.
All sales in prescriptions dispensed in the US were prescription volume growth similar to that of the US were through the HHS and totalled generic.
Despite these price pressures and other mature markets and provided access $389 million.
a challenging economic environment, to our medicines for a large segment of the AstraZeneca increased net product sales in patient population.
Overall access for 2009 by 9% and IMS Health audited sales AstraZenecas products in key accounts for the US market show that AstraZeneca was maintained or improved in 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
