Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 31 Performance Innovative and differentiated medicines Intellectual property The generic industry is increasingly challenging Compulsory licensing The discovery and development of a innovators patents, and almost all leading Compulsory licensing the overruling of patent new medicine requires a significant pharmaceutical products in the US have rights to allow patented medicines to be investment of resources by researchfaced or are facing patent challenges from manufactured and sold by other parties based pharmaceutical companies over generic manufacturers.
The research-based is increasingly being included in the access a period of 10 or more years.
For this to pharmaceutical industry is also experiencing to medicines debate.
We recognise the right be a viable investment, the results new increased challenges elsewhere in the world, of developing countries to use the flexibilities medicines must be safeguarded from for example in Europe, Canada, Asia and in the World Trade Organizations TRIPS copying with a reasonable amount of Latin America.
Further information about Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property certainty for a reasonable period of time.
the risk of the early loss and expiry of patents Rights Agreement including the Doha is contained in the Principal risks and amendment in certain limited circumstances, The principal safeguard in our industry is a uncertainties section from page 80. such as a public health emergency.
We well-functioning patent system that recognises believe that this should apply only when all our effort and rewards our innovation with Data exclusivity other ways of meeting the emergency needs appropriate protection, allowing time to Regulatory Data Protection RDP or data have been considered and where healthcare generate the revenue we need to re-invest exclusivity is an important intellectual frameworks and safeguards are in place to in new pharmaceutical innovation.
We are property right which arises in respect of ensure that the medicines reach those who confident of our innovations and therefore certain data generated by our research need them.
commit significant resources to establishing activities, including clinical studies.
Data which effective patent protection for them, and is required to be submitted to regulatory Patent expiries to defending vigorously our patent and authorities in order to obtain marketing The following table sets out certain patent related intellectual property rights if they approvals for our medicines may be protected expiry dates for our key marketed products.
from use by third parties such as generic These expiry dates relate to the basic manufacturers for a specific number of substance patent relevant to that product Patent process years.
The period of such protection differs unless indicated otherwise.
The expiry We apply for patent protection relatively early significantly between countries.
We believe dates shown include any Patent Term in the R&D process to safeguard our increasing in enforcing our rights to RDP and consider Extension and Paediatric Exclusivity periods.
Further innovation will mean that it an important protection for our innovations, Additional patents relating to the stated we frequently take out additional patents as particularly as patent rights are being products may have terms extending beyond we develop a product and its uses.
these patents through patent offices around US patent expiry the world.
In some countries, our competitors 1 Nexium 2015 can challenge our patents in the patent Crestor 2016 offices, and in all countries competitors can Toprol-XL Expired challenge our patents in the courts.
We can Atacand 2012 face challenges early in the patent process Symbicort 2014 substance combination and throughout the life of the patent.
These 2 Pulmicort Respules 2019 formulation challenges can be to the validity of a patent Arimidex 2010 and or to the effective scope of a patent and Zoladex Expired are based on ever-evolving legal precedents.
Seroquel Seroquel XR 2012 substance 2017 XR formulation There can be no guarantee of success for Synagis 2015 either party in patent proceedings.
For 1 information about third party challenges to the Licence agreements with Teva and Ranbaxy allow each to launch a generic version in the US from May 2014, subject to regulatory approval.
patents protecting our products, see Note 25 2 A licence agreement with Teva permits their ongoing US sale of a generic version from December 2009. to the Financial Statements from page 166.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
