20 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Christer Khler Interim Executive Vice-President, Discovery Research The safety of Having the best science is not enough people with the capabilities to turn that patients is a knowledge into great medicines is what brings success.
fundamental consideration Other developments with Symbicort exemplify than 60 years.
Our total product supply of the levels of investment we will make in our approach to optimising the benefit of our approximately 10 million FluMist doses sold different disease areas.
medicines for patient health both in terms of out in 2009.
Our technology also enabled bringing benefits to additional patient groups us to develop, and to be the first to market in Our approach and working with third parties.
In 2009, the US, a vaccine designed to prevent H1N1 Patient safety Symbicort Turbuhaler was approved in Japan influenza swine flu.
We received approval for The safety of the patients who take our to treat adult asthma and it was launched in our H1N1 influenza vaccine in September and medicines is a fundamental consideration for Japan in January 2010.
In August, we then contracted with the US Department of us.
All drugs have potential side effects and signed an agreement with Astellas to Health and Human Services for 42 million we aim to minimise the risks and maximise the co-promote Symbicort Turbuhaler in Japan.
doses, which we manufactured and distributed benefits of each of our medicines starting Symbicort Turbuhaler is also now approved on time and to schedule.
with the discovery of a potential new medicine in 96 countries for use in treating chronic and continuing throughout its development, obstructive pulmonary disease, including Further information about all our major launch and marketing.
products can be found in the Therapy Area Review from page 55.
Many of our products, After launch, we continually monitor the In addition to small molecules we also have for example, Seroquel and Crestor, are the use of all our medicines to ensure that a strong capability in biologics.
For example, subject of product liability claims and patent we become aware of any side effects not Synagis is routinely used by hospitals for the challenges.
Information about material legal identified during the development process.
prevention of serious lower respiratory tract proceedings can be found in Note 25 to the This is known as pharmacovigilance and is disease caused by respiratory syncytial virus Financial Statements from page 166. core to our ongoing responsibility to patients.
RSV, a respiratory infection in infants, and We have comprehensive and rigorous has been administered to over one million Investing for the future pharmacovigilance systems in place for premature babies.
Synagis was the first Within each of our Therapy Areas, the detecting and rapidly evaluating such effects, MAb approved in the US for the prevention individual disease areas in which we work including mechanisms for highlighting those of an infectious disease.
Since its launch in are agreed using a regular review process that require immediate attention.
We also work 1998 it has become the standard of care for that enables us to deploy our resources in to ensure that accurate, well-informed and RSV prevention.
the best way to meet our commercial and up-to-date information concerning the safety scientific objectives.
We evaluate market profile of our drugs is provided to regulators, Our biologics capability is also exemplified opportunities against a set of criteria, doctors, other healthcare professionals and, by our influenza vaccines, where we have including unmet medical need, competitive where appropriate, patients.
Clinical studies, developed technologies that enable innovative position and our capabilities.
Our R&D although extensive, cannot replicate the ways of reverse-engineering new vaccines.
Executive Committee, which will be replaced complete range of patient circumstances.
FluMist, the first nasal spray influenza vaccine in 2010 by the Portfolio Investment Board Rare side effects can often only be identified to be approved in the US, represented the further details of which are set out in the after a medicine has been launched and used first innovation in flu vaccination in more R&D Executive Committee section on in far greater numbers of patients and over page 92 uses the reviews to determine longer periods of time.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 21 Performance We have an experienced, in-house team of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute.
Further Our medicines around 350 clinical patient safety professionals information on counterfeiting can be found bring economic as well working around the world who are dedicated in the Product counterfeiting section on as therapeutic benefits.
to the task of ensuring that we meet our page 82. commitment to patient safety.
This number of people is lower than in 2008 because Pricing our medicines data entry of individual case reports is Continued innovation is required to address now managed by an external provider as unmet medical need.
Our challenge is to described below.
At a global level, every deliver innovations that bring benefits for medicine in development and on the market patients and society at a level of investment is allocated a Global Safety Physician and and internal productivity that reflects the a team of patient safety scientists.
In each of downward pressure on pricing.
60 our markets we also have dedicated safety managers with responsibility for patient safety Our global pricing policy provides the We developed the first innovation in at a local level.
framework for optimising the profitability of all influenza vaccines in over 60 years our products in a sustainable way.
It balances Our two Chief Medical Officers CMOs many different factors, including ensuring have overall accountability for the benefit appropriate patient access.
When setting the risk profiles of the products we have in price of a medicine, we take into consideration development and those on the market.
One its full value to patients, those who pay for CMO is responsible for our small molecule healthcare and society in general.
Our pricing products, the other for our biologics.
They also takes account of the fact that, as a publicly provide medical oversight and ensure that owned company, we have a duty to ensure appropriate risk assessment processes are that we continue to deliver an appropriate in place to enable informed decisions to be return on investment to our shareholders.
made about safety as quickly as possible.
We continually review our range of medicines In 2009, we appointed Tata Consultancy both those on the market and in the pipeline Services Sverige AB to manage the data to identify any that may be regarded as entry process for safety reports relating particularly critical to meeting healthcare to AstraZeneca products.
This may be either because they treat to improve efficiency and consistency of diseases that are or are becoming prevalent data entry across AstraZeneca, and allow in developing countries, or because they our patient safety teams to focus on case are potentially a leading or unique therapy prioritisation, the medical aspects of patient addressing an unmet need and offering safety and continuing to improve our significant patient benefit in treating a serious safety science.
In such cases, we aim to provide patient access to these Our commitment to patient safety includes medicines through expanded patient access ensuring the security of our medicines programmes across all markets, including throughout their manufacture and supply.
We also support the concept of We continuously monitor our business differential pricing in this context, provided environment to identify any new or emerging that safeguards are in place to ensure that product security risks and work to ensure that differentially priced products are not diverted these are managed quickly and effectively.
from patients who need them, to be sold and In addition to our internal processes, we use used in more affluent markets.
a range of measures against counterfeit medicines and continue to develop our Economic benefit capabilities in this area.
These include Our medicines play an important role in introducing technologies that make it more treating medical needs and in doing so difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products: they bring economic as well as therapeutic conducting market surveillance and benefits.
Effective treatments can help to save monitoring the supply chain to identify potential healthcare costs by reducing the need for counterfeiting operations: responding rapidly more expensive care, such as hospital stays to any reports of counterfeit AstraZeneca or surgery.
They also contribute to increased medicines: and working with regulators, productivity by reducing or preventing the healthcare professionals, distributors, law incidence of diseases that keep people away enforcement agencies and other organisations from work.
We also participate in a variety of anti-counterfeiting forums and programmes in the public and private sector, including WHO Interpols International Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting Taskforce and AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
