Directors Report | Other Businesses 75 Reviews Other Businesses Major investments have been made in new Clinical research is an integral part of care production equipment for the manufacturing delivery at Aptium Oncologys cancer centres of new LoFric catheter products, which will and an area of strategic strength for the Astra Tech be launched early in 2010. company.
Aptium Oncologys Gastrointestinal Astra Tech AB Astra Tech is engaged in the Cancer Consortium, established in 2008, has research, development, manufacture and The Astra Tech training and education been successful in bringing together eight marketing of medical devices and implants programme has been further developed and, leading US academic institutions to speed up for use in healthcare, primarily in urology, in combination with its state-of-the-art centre the process of finding and testing active new surgery and odontology.
Astra Tech has two for training and education at its headquarters, compounds for patients with gastrointestinal main business divisions: Astra Tech Dental, advanced international education programmes cancers.
In 2010, Aptium Oncology plans which is responsible for the odontology area and seminars are continuously being offered to create a similar consortium focused on of the business, and Astra Tech Healthcare, to existing and potential customers.
which is responsible for the surgery and investments have been made in R&D, clinical urology areas of the business.
Astra Tech research and new production facilities to has a leading position in several countries strengthen the product portfolio.
in Europe and is expanding its operations in key markets, particularly in the US, Japan Aptium Oncology and South East Asia.
For more than 25 years, Aptium Oncology, Inc. Aptium Oncology has been developing and All product lines showed continued good managing hospital-based outpatient cancer sales growth in 2009.
The downturn in the centres in the US.
Ownership of Aptium world economy has had a dramatic impact on Oncology provides AstraZeneca with a the dental implant market, which is estimated unique window into the provider sector of the to have declined by 5% during 2009.
However, US oncology market and, through Aptium Astra Tech Dental has performed well in this Oncologys network of over 175 physicians, declining market, growing its implant sales access to many opinion leaders in the field of and increasing its market share in several key oncology who can help to shape early phase markets.
In pursuit of the growth strategy for drug development decisions.
It is also involved Astra Tech Dental, the sales and marketing in clinical study delivery for a number of our organisation for dental implants was further pipeline products and provides scientific strengthened and adapted to the prevailing advice and staff training for oncology teams.
The downturn in the world economy has had no significant impact on the In 2009, Aptium Oncology continued market for Astra Tech Healthcare products.
to perform well in its cancer centre management business with positive profit Since Astra Techs acquisition of Atlantis and cash flow contributions.
As anticipated, Components Inc. Atlantis in 2007, Astra Tech in the second half of the year, two of Aptium has introduced the Atlantis product range Oncologys long-term management contracts into most European markets and the market expired.
In both cases, Aptium Oncology response has been very favourable.
The successfully established the infrastructure European manufacturing facility for Atlantis and services to allow the hospitals to products, which Astra Tech opened in late manage independently their programmes 2008, is now in full operation, meeting an after 15 and 25 years, respectively.
increasing demand from the European market.
The acquisition of Atlantis has given Astra Tech During 2009, Aptium Oncology continued a strong platform for development within digital to refine its business model to adapt to the dentistry, offering an important opportunity ever-changing dynamics of the US healthcare for continued growth for the dental implants industry.
Aptium Oncology remains focused product line.
on growth and its consultancy business continues to lay the groundwork for new management relationships although, due to the loss of the long-term management contracts referred to above, Aptium Oncologys growth will be from a lower base.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
