Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 71 Reviews Respiratory & Our marketed products While there are not many significant new treatment modalities on the horizon for Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol in a Inflammation asthma and COPD, some pharmaceutical pressurised metered-dose inhaler is used for the companies have onceand twice-daily ICS maintenance treatment of asthma and COPD in the US.
LABAs in late-stage development and the Symbicort SMART our Symbicort Maintenance In brief first regulatory approvals for a new LABA and and Reliever Therapy is approved for maintenance and reliever therapy in persistent asthma.
a novel anti-inflammatory mechanism, an oral Total Symbicort sales $2.3 billion, up 23%.
phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor, have been seen Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a combination of an inhaled this year.
Significant new product classes Symbicort pMDI licensed for long-term corticosteroid and a fast onset, long-acting bronchodilator maintenance treatment of asthma in the US.
impacting the asthma market are unlikely used for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
The chronic obstructive pulmonary disease before 2015.
However, specifically for the COPD indication was approved by the FDA in Pulmicort budesonide is a corticosteroid antitreatment of COPD, the new product class of February 2009.
An additional programme for inflammatory inhalation drug that helps prevent paediatric asthma indication has been submitted fixed combination LABA LAMA is estimated to symptoms and improves the control of asthma.
to the FDA and a Complete Response Letter was impact the market in early 2013.
Longer term, received in April.
AstraZeneca has responded to Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation suspension novel anti-inflammatory compounds and or the Complete Response Letter with a proposed is the first nebulised corticosteroid in the US for the programme to address the FDA questions.
treatment of asthma in children as young as 12 months.
anti-proteases, alone or in combinations of LABAs or LAMAs aimed mainly at the Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid treatment Outside the US, Symbicort SMART is now for allergic rhinitis hay fever, perennial rhinitis and prevention and or treatment of COPD approved for use in managing asthma in nasal polyps.
exacerbations, are likely to appear on the Oxis formoterol is a fast onset, long-acting betamarket.
Generic ICS LABA combinations may Outside the US, Symbicort Turbuhaler is agonist used for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
be available from the early part of this decade.
now approved for the treatment of COPD in 96 countries.
Accolate zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene receptor antagonist used for the treatment of asthma.
Our focus In October, Symbicort Turbuhaler was approved Our key marketed products in Japan for the treatment of adult asthma and it was launched in Japan in January 2010.
Symbicort Turbuhaler improves symptoms and AstraZeneca and Astellas have entered into an Our strategic objectives provides a clinically important improvement in agreement for the co-promotion of Symbicort We aim to build on our strong position in the the health of many patients with either asthma Turbuhaler in Japan.
respiratory field through the growth of key or COPD by providing rapid, effective control Total Pulmicort sales of $1,310 million and is now products, particularly Symbicort, with new and effective reduction of exacerbations.
indications and market launches, including With settlement of AstraZenecas Pulmicort chronic obstructive pulmonary disease In October, Symbicort Turbuhaler was Respules patent infringement litigation against COPD, as well as through developing a approved in Japan for the treatment of adult Teva in November 2008, Teva obtained an strong pipeline of novel small molecule and asthma and it was launched in Japan in exclusive licence to sell generic Pulmicort Respules in the US from 15 December 2009 biologics approaches to COPD and asthma.
AstraZeneca and Astellas have on payment of royalties to AstraZeneca.
Teva We aspire to enter the rheumatology market entered into an agreement for the colaunched its licensed product in December.
predominantly through our biologics pipeline.
promotion of Symbicort Turbuhaler in Japan.
AstraZeneca sales of Pulmicort Respules continue despite Tevas entry.
COPD and asthma Symbicort pMDI pressurised metered Following FDA approval of Apotexs generic According to WHO, COPD is currently the dose inhaler is approved, in the US, for the version of Pulmicort Respules in March 2009, AstraZeneca obtained a preliminary injunction fourth leading cause of death worldwide, long-term maintenance treatment of asthma against Apotex, Inc. and Apotex Corp. Apotex with future increases anticipated.
Current in patients 12 years of age and older and preventing an at-risk launch of the product until treatment has recently demonstrated some was launched in the US in 2007.
The COPD further order of the Court.
Other patent infringement litigation in survival benefit but the prognosis of the indication was approved and launched in relation to Pulmicort Respules against Breath COPD patient remains poor.
morbidity and mortality remain important the Joint Advisory Committees of the FDA issues and disease normalisation is not completed a review of the benefits and risks achieved by any treatment.
of asthma medications containing LABAs.
The Advisory Committees concluded that The typical treatment for both COPD and the benefits of Symbicort pMDI outweigh asthma is a fixed-dose combination of an the risks in adult and adolescent asthma inhaled corticosteroid ICS with a long-acting patients.
However, a final decision has not beta-agonist LABA for example Symbicort yet been communicated by the FDA.
or for COPD specifically, an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA.
Other major An sNDA for Symbicort pMDI in paediatric asthma treatments include monotherapy ICSs, asthma was submitted in 2008.
AstraZeneca oral leukotriene receptor antagonists and received a Complete Response Letter in or oral steroids for severe disease and in April 2009 for this application and has since combination with antibiotics for exacerbations.
submitted a response outlining an additional programme to address the FDAs questions.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 72 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Our financial performance 2009 2008 2007 2009 compared to 2008 2008 compared to 2007 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Pulmicort 1,310 155 30 1,495 7 34 1,454 10 12 3 Symbicort 2,294 456 166 2,004 346 83 1,575 23 14 22 27 Rhinocort 264 47 11 322 41 9 354 15 18 12 9 Oxis 63 8 71 21 6 86 11 24 17 Accolate 66 6 1 73 4 1 76 8 10 5 4 Other 135 14 14 163 9 6 166 9 17 5 2 Total 4,132 234 230 4,128 278 139 3,711 6 7 11 Therapy area world market Symbicort SMART provides increased asthma Clinical data from the CLIMB study MAT Q3 09 control and simplifies asthma management demonstrated that Symbicort added to through the use of only one inhaler for both Spiriva tiotropium provided greater clinical maintenance and relief of asthma symptoms.
improvements than tiotropium alone over As well as being a cost-effective treatment a 12-week treatment period.
Results from for many healthcare payers, the Symbicort the CLIMB study also showed that the A SMART approach can also result in lower occurrence of severe COPD exacerbations D was reduced by as much as 62% in patients ICS and oral steroid use compared to other treatment options.
where Symbicort was added to tiotropium compared to patients on tiotropium alone.
Pulmicort remains the worlds leading inhaled Furthermore, the CLIMB study showed that B C corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma and patients treated with the Symbicort tiotropium is available in several forms.
Teva now has inhaled combination experienced benefits.
an exclusive licence to sell generic Pulmicort Market sectors $bn Respules in the US.
In the pipeline A Asthma 17.1 AZD9668, currently in Phase IIb studies, B COPD 9.8 Rhinocort combines powerful efficacy with is an oral inhibitor of neutrophil elastase, C Rhinitis 7.3 rapid onset of action and minimal side effects an enzyme strongly implicated in the D Other 19.8 and is available as a once-daily treatment for inflammatory process, mucus hypersecretion allergic rhinitis hay fever, perennial rhinitis and matrix degradation that drives the signs The prescription respiratory world market and nasal polyps in the Rhinocort Aqua and symptoms of and disease progression value is $54 billion.
nasal spray and the Turbuhaler dry powder in COPD.
WHO estimates that 300 million people worldwide inhaler forms.
suffer from asthma and more than 200 million have COPD, which is currently the fourth leading Alongside this novel approach and building on cause of death worldwide with further increases Oxis is added to the treatment regimen our capabilities in combinations and device anticipated in future decades.
for asthma and COPD when corticosteroid development demonstrated through our treatment alone is not adequate.
Oxis is also experience with Symbicort, we are aiming indicated for symptom relief in COPD.
to improve further the mainstay of treatment for all COPD patients by combining two Clinical studies of our long-acting bronchodilators, AZD3199 and key marketed products AZD9164, in one inhaler.
The individual During 2009, the data from the SUN study, compounds are currently in Phase II studies 54bn the second pivotal Symbicort pMDI study, AZD3199 is in Phase IIb studies.
Patients The prescription respiratory world was published.
This study is part of the should benefit from improved symptom market value is $54 billion COPD NDA submission.
The study confirmed control, as well as from the reduction in the the clinical benefits of Symbicort pMDI in complications arising from multiple dosing or moderate and severe COPD patients and inhaler devices and the combination supports showed that Symbicort pMDI 160 4.5 two the recommendations of the international inhalations twice-daily had a greater guidelines for the treatment of COPD for improvement in pre-dose forced expiratory maximal bronchodilation as 1st line therapy.
volume I tests averaged over the treatment period compared with formoterol and AZD1981, a prostanoid receptor CRTh2 placebo.
In addition, several other important antagonist currently in Phase IIa studies, is clinical studies in COPD were published a potential new oral small molecule approach showing the benefit of early onset effect to treating uncontrolled asthma.
AZD1981 relieving morning symptoms as well as is expected to prevent the recruitment and improved outcomes when added to LAMAs.
activation of Th2 cells and eosinophils, which are both increased in asthma.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 73 Reviews AZD8848 is a novel small molecule toll-like Our 2007 discovery alliance with Argenta Current treatment of systemic lupus receptor-7 agonist in Phase II studies for Discovery Limited aimed at identifying erythematosus SLE focuses on controlling the treatment of asthma being developed improved bronchodilators to treat COPD disease flares, preventing renal failure and in collaboration with Dainippon continues and is now entirely focused on suppressing symptoms to an acceptable level Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd the combined anti-muscarinic and beta-2 while minimising toxicity.
AstraZeneca continues recent development activity, no targeted to develop the LAMA compounds identified disease-modifying agents have yet been MEDI-563 is an investigational approach in the collaboration.
Most that may help treat inadequately controlled emerging biologic agents will likely be used asthma by targeting the interleukin-5 IL-5 Our three-year research collaboration initially in combination with corticosteroids or receptor, blocking the binding of IL-5 to the with Silence Therapeutics A. G. Silence, immunosuppressants to provide incremental receptor and depleting the cells expressing established in 2007, is continuing.
In 2008, benefit and or allow reduced doses or the IL-5 receptor, typically eosinophils, we entered into a new collaboration with numbers of these agents.
which are thought to play a key role in the Silence focused on the development of a pathology of asthma.
In addition, two Phase range of novel approaches for the delivery of Our focus II studies are ongoing to assess the ability of siRNA molecules, which allows both Silence In the pipeline MEDI-563 to reduce the asthmatic relapse and AstraZeneca to commercialise the novel In 2009, we invested in several novel rate following an acute care episode, as well delivery systems which we develop together.
multi-functional MAbs in inflammatory and as its ability to reduce the rate of asthma autoimmune conditions.
AstraZeneca announced in July that it had terminated the licence agreement with MEDI-545 is a MAb which targets interferonIn 2009, we initiated a Phase IIb study to MAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. MAP, regarding alpha, which regulates processes involved in determine the chronic dosing of MEDI-528 unit dose budesonide UDB.
In 2009, we completed an anti-IL-9 MAb on asthma exacerbations investigational treatment for paediatric asthma, enrolment for a Phase IIa study in patients in moderate to severe asthma.
was the subject of an initial Phase III clinical with SLE and a Phase I study in patients with study conducted by MAP.
In February 2009, active dermatomyositis or polymyositis.
CAT-354 targets interleukine-13, one of the key MAP announced that the study failed to cytokines implicated in asthma pathogenesis.
In light of the CAM-3001 licensed from CSL Limited is In 2009, we initiated a Phase IIa study to a MAb in Phase I development with potential clinical study results, AstraZeneca exercised investigate the potential of a subcutaneous its right to terminate the licence agreement.
to help patients with RA through targeting the injection form of CAT-354 to treat patients alpha sub-unit of the  with moderate to severe persistent asthma Rheumatology colony stimulating factor receptor.
who are inadequately controlled despite Rheumatoid arthritis RA is currently treated current standard of care.
with generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic In 2009, we initiated a Phase I study in agents and, where the relevant criteria are met, scleroderma for a MAb, which targets the In addition, the early pipeline for respiratory biologic disease-modifiers.
There remains anti-interferon alpha receptor.
We also filed biologics was bolstered by the entry of three a need for novel effective treatments since an initial new drug application for a MAb new development programmes targeting only about a third of patients treated with which targets the CD-19 receptor.
COPD, which will likely progress to human biologics achieve their treatment goals.
The RA therapy market will experience AZD9056 and AZD5672, which were in modest annual growth over the 2008-2018 Phase II development, have been terminated.
The early biologic pipeline has been reshaped forecast period, as sales increase from AstraZeneca continues to explore approaches to focus more on COPD, looking for novel $8.2 billion to $13.1 billion.
In 2008, sales of and mechanisms which have the potential to strategies to inhibit exacerbations in COPD, the biologic tumour necrosis factor TNF alpha improve therapy and to deliver better outcomes which include regulation of inflammatory cell blockers accounted for 80% of major-market for patients with rheumatological conditions.
migration and activation with MAbs directed RA sales.
Launches of additional TNF blockers to antigens.
are ongoing, and use of other biologic Litigation approaches, currently reserved for TNF failures, Detailed information about material legal Strategic collaboration activity continues is expected to increase.
Targeted novel oral proceedings in respect of our Respiratory & to be important to our respiratory pipeline.
drugs aimed at patients that currently choose Inflammation products can be found in Note Our collaboration with Dynavax Technologies not to take, are ineligible for or do not respond 25 to the Financial Statements from page 166.
Corporation Dynavax, which began in 2006, to biologics, are in development to provide continues to pursue opportunities in the field anti-TNF-like efficacy with safety benefits of toll-like receptor-9 with immunostimulatory and more convenient dosing.
Our collaborations with Decision Resources 2009.
Dainippon Sumitomo referred to above and Dynavax both aim to find treatments for the normalisation of disease in asthma and the prevention of exacerbations in COPD.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 74 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Financial performance 2009 2008 Total Pulmicort sales were flat at $1,495 Performance 2009 million, with US sales up 2% as the generic Reported performance competition from the Teva product affected Respiratory & Inflammation R&I sales were quarter four sales.
US sales for Pulmicort $4,132 million, almost level with the $4,128 were down 15% to $260 million in the fourth million in 2008. quarter of 2008 and Pulmicort Respules sales were down 18% as a result of the at risk Performance CER growth rates launch of generic budesonide inhalation R&I sales grew by 6% at CER.
The patent litigation between Teva and Total sales of Symbicort grew by 23% to AstraZeneca was subsequently settled on $2,294 million.
In the US, sales of Symbicort 25 November 2008.
The agreement allows pMDI were $488 million, up 91%.
This strong Teva to commence sales of BIS under an growth is lead by physicians increasing use exclusive licence from AstraZeneca beginning of Symbicort pMDI, particularly in those on 15 December 2009.
The agreement also patients newly starting fixed combination provided that any product already shipped by therapy.
For these patients, more than one Teva would remain in the market to be further in three prescriptions written by specialists distributed and dispensed.
As a result, Teva and more than one in four prescriptions products accounted for nearly 15% of total written by primary care physicians, is for prescriptions for BIS products dispensed Symbicort pMDI.
Symbicort Turbuhaler during the fourth quarter of 2008, including and SMART sales outside the US in the a 40% share in December 2008.
US sales for year were $1,806 million, up 13%.
Pulmicort for the full year were $982 million.
Pulmicort Respules accounted for around Total sales for Pulmicort were down 10% to 90% of total Pulmicort sales in the US.
Total US sales for Pulmicort for sales of Pulmicort outside the US were the full year were down 18% to $804 million down 2% for the full year to $513 million.
due to generic competition for Pulmicort Respules.
Pulmicort Respules accounted for around 86% of total Pulmicort sales in the US.
Total sales of Pulmicort outside the US were up 4% for the full year to $506 million.
Performance 2008 Reported performance Sales in R&I increased by 11% to $4,128 million from $3,711 million in 2007.
Performance CER growth rates R&I sales grew by 7% at CER.
Total sales of Symbicort grew by 22% to $2,004 million.
In the US, sales of Symbicort pMDI were $255 million.
Symbicort Turbuhaler and SMART sales outside the US in the year were $1,749 million, up 9%.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
