14 Directors Report | Strategy and Performance Strategy and Performance How we did in 2009 and our plans for the future Each year, at the beginning of our potential loss through the ordinary course business planning cycle, we assess of patent expiries and loss of Regulatory the challenges and opportunities Exclusivity protecting our products.
This loss presented by the market, stress test of intellectual property is an inherent feature our short and long-term planning of our industry that occurs naturally as part of assumptions, and critically assess the cycle of innovation, growth and renewal.
our strengths and weaknesses as It is, however, challenging to be able to an organisation.
We do so to assure synchronise the cycles of patent expiry and ourselves that, whatever our past portfolio renewal.
The goal for our planning David Brennan successes, the strategic path we are process is to ensure that we can continue Chief Executive Officer following is the right one for the future.
to sustain the cycle of successful innovation and thus continue to refresh our portfolio This section summarises our strategic plans of patented products and generate value We face near-term challenges for the future as well as our performance for shareholders.
but I am confident that we can against those plans in 2009. be among the best performers Our strategy in this sector.
Our challenge The executive team, with the endorsement In our Business Environment section from of the Board, believes that the most page 12 we outline the opportunities presented value-creating strategy for AstraZeneca is by expanding patient populations in Emerging to remain a focused, integrated, innovationMarkets, unmet medical need and advances in driven, global, prescription-based science, as well as the pricing pressure and biopharmaceutical business: other challenges facing the pharmaceutical sector.
Over the last 10 years, our healthcare focused in that we will continue to be revenue has grown from $15 billion to almost selective about those areas of the industry $33 billion and our Emerging Markets business in which we choose to compete, targeting has grown from 6% of our global revenue those product categories where medical to 13%.
Our challenge as a business is to innovation or brand equity continues to be nimble in seizing the opportunities and enable us to make acceptable levels of managing the risks in order to build our returns on our investments competitive advantage.
integrated in that we believe the best way to capture value within this industry is to We estimate that in the next five years, more span the full value chain of discovery, than half our current revenue is subject to development and commercialisation AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Strategy and Performance 15 Performance innovation-driven in that we believe our In terms of the commercialisation of our technology base will continue to deliver products, we will continue to build on our Measuring our performance innovative products that patients will leading positions in Established Markets.
Each business function is subject to an want and for which payers will pay Our plans for growth will also build on the annual budget and target-setting process that global in that we believe we have the investments we have already made in includes developing financial and business ability efficiently and effectively to meet Emerging Markets.
In addition to forecasts, conducting sensitivity and risk healthcare needs in both Established commercialising the current and new product analyses and setting relevant performance and Emerging Markets.
offerings being developed internally, we believe measures.
Regular reviews are undertaken in we can drive further growth by selectively each part of the business in order to monitor We believe that there are continued supplementing our Emerging Markets and assess progress against business and opportunities to create value for those who portfolio with branded generic products budget targets, and to assess key risks and invest in pharmaceutical innovation and that sourced externally and marketed under the mitigating actions.
Longer term, 10-year AstraZeneca has the skills and capabilities to AstraZeneca brand.
forecasts are developed as part of our annual turn these opportunities into long-term value.
Business shape Our priorities to 2014 We will continue to use business improvement Quarterly internal reports provide the Board The initiatives we are pursuing in the coming programmes, such as Lean Sigma, to drive and SET with shared insight into progress years are in line with those we reported on efficiencies across the Group.
We will also against current year objectives and milestones last year and we do so again overleaf in this move further towards a more flexible cost for longer-term strategic goals.
These show that we are base which will enable us to respond rapidly is assessed using quantitative, comparative already on a path of change.
Our 2009 review as our requirements change.
To do this we will market, operational and financial measures emphasised the need for the pace of that make greater use of outsourcing and strategic and qualitative analysis.
In relation to our overall goal of creating Pipeline Culture and behaviour enduring value for shareholders by being While remaining committed to scientific We define success not only by what we do one of the best-performing pharmaceutical innovation to deliver a flow of new medicines, but also by how we do it.
Acting responsibly companies, we track shareholder value the need to further improve the productivity ensures we do things in the right way and in using the following financial performance of R&D is a central part of our plans.
Meeting metrics: sales growth operating profit and line with the expectations of shareholders, this challenge will require continued investment customers, payers, regulators and other margins : earnings per share growth: net in new skills and capabilities.
It will also require stakeholders.
We will continue to embed operating cash flow before debt repayment our R&D organisation to undertake more a culture of accountability across the Group, and shareholder distributions : shareholder transformational change than ever before.
distributions through dividends and share nurturing a spirit of innovation in all functions.
Our plans include a reduction in the number re-purchases: and TSR.
We report our of disease area targets within our core Implementation performance against those measures on Therapy Areas, a continued focus on external Good progress has been made in the pages 2 and 3 of this Annual Report, and collaboration, some consolidation of our implementation of previously announced with TSR graphs on page 114. activities onto a smaller R&D site footprint, restructuring programmes.
This has involved and other efficiency measures, subject to a reduction of 12,600 positions.
Annualised consultations with work councils, trades unions benefits of $1.6 billion were realised by the and other employee representatives and in end of 2009, which are on track to grow accordance with local employment laws.
to around $2.4 billion by the end of 2010.
Our commitment to scientific innovation The next phase of restructuring, which is coupled with our belief that successful includes completion of the previous delivery of our plans will require more external programmes, some additional initiatives collaboration than ever before, including in supply chain and in selling, general & more extensive collaboration with industry administration, as well as the R&D initiatives, and academic partners.
External project will result in the realisation of a further opportunities will compete alongside $1.9 billion in estimated annual benefits by in-house developments for funding from our the end of 2014.
These programmes may, new Portfolio Investment Board which will when fully implemented, involve up to an replace the R&D Executive Committee.
Business growth Our performance in 2009 Our enhanced programme of external Set out in the next column is more information collaboration includes working with payers.
about how we measure and review our We are setting out to build an industry-leading performance on an annual basis.
For each of capability in payer partnering to ensure our strategic priority areas, the table overleaf that the needs of our customers are clearly summarises the initiatives we have been understood throughout R&D and included undertaking in support of them, our 2010 in our decision-making.
objectives, our KPIs and our performance against them in 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
