56 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular Our marketed products Our focus Our key marketed products 1 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a statin for the treatment Since its launch in 2003, our statin, Crestor, of dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia, and to slow In brief has continued to gain market share, based on the progression of atherosclerosis.
its differentiated profile in managing cholesterol 2 Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an angiotensin II Onglyza has been launched in the US, Canada, levels and its unique recent label indication antagonist for the 1st line treatment of hypertension Mexico, Germany, the UK and Denmark and has and symptomatic heart failure.
Crestor approval been approved in Argentina, Brazil, India and all other EU countries.
has broadened to every EU country with Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate is a beta-blocker once-daily tablet for 24-hour control of launches in Germany and Spain in 2009.
Crestor sales up 29% to $4.5 billion.
Crestor hypertension and for use in heart failure and angina.
approval has broadened to every EU country with launches in Germany and Spain in 2009.
Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker for Fewer than half of the people thought to hypertension, angina pectoris and other CV disorders.
have high levels of low-density lipoprotein Crestor was approved in the US for the treatment 3 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate is an ACE inhibitor used cholesterol LDL-C bad cholesterol get of paediatric patients from 10 to 17 years of age for the treatment of a wide range of CV diseases, with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia diagnosed and treated and, of those people, including hypertension.
This study fulfilled our only about half reach their physicians paediatric exclusivity obligations, which resulted Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist for the recommended cholesterol target using in Paediatric Exclusivity being granted in July, treatment of hypertension and angina.
which will provide an additional six months of existing treatments.
Crestor is the most 4 exclusivity to market Crestor in the US.
Onglyza saxagliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase IV effective statin in lowering LDL-C and the inhibitor for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
majority of patients reach their LDL-C goals Crestor filings were submitted in the US and the 1 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. EU as well as other markets seeking an outcomes using the usual 10mg starting dose.
Crestor 2 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. indication and labelling based on the JUPITER also produces an increase in high-density 3 Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc. study which demonstrated a significant reduction 4 Co-developed and co-commercialised with Bristollipoprotein cholesterol HDL-C good in major cardiovascular CV events 44% compared Myers Squibb Company.
to placebo in men over 50 and women over 60 cholesterol, across a range of doses.
At its with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein usual 10mg starting dose, Crestor has been but low normal cholesterol levels.
shown, versus placebo, to reduce LDL-C by The parties concluded discovery in the Crestor Our strategic objectives up to 52% and raise HDL-C by up to 14%, consolidated ANDA patent litigations filed in the An estimated 17.5 million people died from with eight out of 10 patients reaching their US District Court for the District of Delaware.
cardiovascular CV disease in 2005, 7.6 million lipid goals.
The actions involve eight generic drug manufacturers challenging the patent covering due to heart attacks, despite improvements in the active ingredient for Crestor.
The Court the quality of diagnosis and treatment.
Direct In December, the FDA approved Crestor decided numerous pre-trial motions, including and indirect costs of treating coronary heart for use as an adjunct to diet for slowing the a denial of AstraZenecas and the licensors Shionogi motion for summary judgment in disease were estimated to be 192 billion progression of atherosclerosis in patients respect of alleged inequitable conduct.
The Court 1 in Europe in 2008 and $313 billion in the US with elevated cholesterol.
Crestor is the amended the pre-trial schedule, re-setting the 2 in 2009. only statin with an atherosclerosis indication beginning trial date to 22 February 2010. in the US which is not limited by disease In Canada, previously reported Patented Medicines Backed by over 40 years experience, severity or restricted to patients with coronary Notice of Compliance Regulations proceedings AstraZeneca is a world leader in CV heart disease.
in respect of Crestor continued and others were commenced in response to Notices of Allegation medicines.
We aim to build on our strong from further generic manufacturers.
position, focusing on the growth areas of Atacand, first launched in 1997, is approved atherosclerosis hardening of the arteries, for the treatment of hypertension in over 100 Atacand sales up 5% to $1.4 billion.
thrombosis blood clotting, diabetes and countries and for symptomatic heart failure Toprol-XL US sales up 227% for the full year.
Atacand is an angiotensin II antagonist, and this class of medicine MAA filed for Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor in October and an NDA in November.
Hypertension, atherosclerosis is the fastest-growing segment of the and dyslipidaemia global hypertension market.
Atacand Plus In December, AstraZeneca and BMS submitted High blood pressure hypertension and candesartan cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide an NDA for the once-daily fixed-dose combination of Onglyza saxagliptin and metformin.
abnormal levels of blood cholesterol is a fixed-dose combination of Atacand and dyslipidaemia damage the arterial wall and the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, indicated US submission for Certriad, a fixed-dose thereby lead to atherosclerosis.
CV events for the treatment of hypertension in patients combination of Crestor rosuvastatin calcium and Abbotts Trilipix fenofibric acid, for the driven by atherosclerotic disease remain who require more than one hypertensive treatment of mixed dyslipidaemia.
the leading cause of death in the western therapy.
Atacand Plus is approved in 88 world.
In 2008, AstraZeneca sought An NDA for Axanum, a single capsule of Nexium and aspirin, was filed in April.
statins, is a cornerstone for the treatment approval in Europe and other markets for of atherosclerosis.
Within the lipid-modifying two additional dose strengths of Atacand market, generics are taking a significant Plus.
In 2009, the new strengths of Atacand share of the market and it is anticipated that Plus 32mg 12.5mg and 32mg 25mg were generic atorvastatin Lipitor will be available approved in Canada, Australia, Sweden and late in 2011. nine other markets.
Further approvals and launches are anticipated in 2010.
1 European cardiovascular disease statistics, 2008 edition, Steven Allender et al, British Foundation Health Promotion Research Group.
2 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.
Fact Book, Fiscal Year 2008, hlbi.
Therapy area world market Following an sNDA submission in April 2009, The AURORA study, published in April 2009, MAT Q3 09 the FDA has approved Atacand for the evaluated the effects of Crestor 10mg and treatment of hypertension in children one to placebo on survival and major CV events 17 years of age.
This sNDA submission has in patients with end-stage renal disease also resulted in the granting of an additional on chronic hemodialysis and demonstrated E six-month period of exclusivity to market that Crestor had no positive impact on such A Atacand in the US.
The findings of the AURORA study D are consistent with other previously published Clinical studies of our key results with other statins and suggest that the marketed products CV disease present in chronic hemodialysis C GALAXY, our long-term global clinical patients is different from other clinical B research programme for Crestor, which settings and is not positively impacted by investigates links between optimal lipid statin treatment.
control, atherosclerosis and CV morbidity Market sectors $bn and mortality, has completed a number of Ongoing studies of Crestor include the studies involving over 65,000 patients in over SATURN study and the PLANETS I and II A High blood pressure 51.1 B Abnormal levels of blood cholesterol 35.4 55 countries.
Some of the studies undertaken studies.
The SATURN study, which is C Diabetes 28.5 as part of the GALAXY programme are designed to measure the impact of Crestor D Thrombosis 23.0 referred to below, namely the JUPITER, 40mg and atorvastatin Lipitor 80mg on the PLUTO, AURORA, SATURN and PLANETS I progression of atherosclerosis in high-risk E Other 21.7 and II studies.
patients, is expected to report in 2011.
CV is the single largest therapy area in the The PLANETS I and II studies, which are global healthcare market with a worldwide Regulatory submissions for Crestor based on designed to compare the efficacy and safety market value of $160 billion.
the JUPITER study results, details of which of Crestor 10mg and 40mg to atorvastatin CV disease remains the greatest risk to life for adults, accounting for 17 million deaths worldwide were included in our 2008 Annual Report and Lipitor 80mg in patients with proteinuric each year.
In the US, 23 million people suffer from Form 20-F Information, are under review in renal disease in diabetics and nondiabetics, diabetes and two in five people with diabetes still the US and the EU as well as in other markets respectively, are expected to report in the have poor lipid proles, one in three have poor with approvals in Malaysia and Colombia.
first half of 2010. blood pressure control and one in five have poor glucose control.
The JUPITER study was the subject of an FDA Advisory Committee in December In the pipeline with the Committee voting positively on the We continue the search for the next major benefit risk profile demonstrated in the study.
therapy to reduce atherosclerotic risk.
A decision by the FDA on the submission is In collaboration with Abbott, we are expected in the first quarter of 2010. developing an investigational compound, Certriad, a fixed-dose combination of the 160bn The PLUTO study evaluated the efficacy active ingredients in Crestor rosuvastatin CV is the single largest therapy area and safety of Crestor in patients 10 to 17 calcium and Abbotts Trilipix fenofibric acid.
in the global healthcare market.
years of age with heterozygous familial An NDA submission in respect of Certriad Worldwide market value of $160 billion hypercholesterolemia.
Completion of the for the treatment of mixed dyslipidaemia was PLUTO study fulfilled our paediatric exclusivity announced jointly by both companies in June.
requirements in the US and resulted in an additional six-month period of exclusivity to market Crestor in the US being granted in July.
In October, a successful paediatric registration for Crestor was achieved.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 58 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Certriad is a potential new approach to help In the pipeline 18,624 patient outcomes study of ticagrelor patients with mixed dyslipidaemia achieve In December, AstraZeneca and BMS plus aspirin versus the active comparator, their treatment goals using a single capsule, submitted an NDA for the once-daily clopidogrel Plavix Iscover, plus aspirin.
which targets all three major blood lipids: fixed-dose combination of Onglyza The PLATO study was designed to establish LDL-C, HDL-C and triglycerides.
whether ticagrelor could achieve meaningful results presented in 2008 showed that this CV and safety endpoints in ACS patients.
combination provides greater benefit across Dapagliflozin is a potential oral anti-diabetic, The PLATO study included all the major ACS multiple lipid parameters than the individual which belongs to the novel class of sodiumpatient types unstable angina, ST segment monotherapies, with significantly improved glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitors.
It is elevation myocardial infarction and non-ST HDL-C and triglycerides compared to Crestor designed to be used both as monotherapy segment elevation myocardial infarction and therapy alone, and significantly improved and in combination with other therapies followed patients who underwent invasive LDL-C compared to Trilipix alone.
Early Phase III data procedures eg stent placement or surgery or demonstrate that, when compared to were managed with prescription medication.
In 2009, AstraZeneca and the University a placebo, 24 weeks treatment with of Virginia entered into a strategic research dapagliflozin improved blood glucose The data from the PLATO study suggests collaboration to enhance development of parameters, resulted in weight loss and was that ticagrelor has achieved greater efficacy new treatments primarily for coronary artery well tolerated in patients with Type 2 diabetes.
in the primary endpoint, reduction of CV disease with a secondary focus on peripheral The extensive Phase III programme is ongoing.
events CV death, heart attack, stroke, vascular disease.
The collaborative pre-clinical over clopidogrel without an increase in research projects will focus on identifying Our activities in the glucokinase activator major bleeding.
This efficacy endpoint was disease mechanisms and biological targets GKA area continued during 2009, and driven by a statistically significant reduction that have the potential to be starting points for Phase II studies for AZD1656 are ongoing.
in both CV deaths and heart attacks with successful and commercially viable treatments The GKA mechanism of action induces no difference in strokes.
Ticagrelor is the for these diseases, both major causes of CV insulin release from the pancreas and reduces first investigational antiplatelet that has morbidity and mortality worldwide.
glucose output from the liver, with marked demonstrated a reduction in CV death blood glucose reducing effects in situations versus clopidogrel in patients with ACS.
The reduction in the risk of CV events with The number of people affected by Type 2 ticagrelor occurred early and this benefit diabetes continues to grow, predominantly During 2009, we also progressed our increased over time compared to clopidogrel.
Type 2 diabetes is a chronic AZD4017, AZD8329 and AZD7867 projects progressive disease and patients often into early clinical testing.
These potential The PLATO trial design prospectively identified require multiple medications to control their medicines aim to increase insulin sensitivity 66 subgroups.
The findings from 62 of the 66 condition.
There are a number of established and thereby induce better glycaemic control subgroups were consistent with the results oral generic and branded classes, such as with beneficial effects on body weight and of the overall study population.
Given the sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones: however, blood lipids.
large number of subgroups evaluated, the newer classes such as oral dipeptidyl four inconsistent findings may have been due peptidase IV inhibitors are entering the In December, AstraZeneca concluded an to chance.
One of the four subgroups showed market successfully by offering effective blood agreement with Biovitrum AB publ Biovitrum a difference in efficacy results between sugar control and improved tolerability.
Several for the acquisition of all Biovitrums rights to its patients in North America and those enrolled new classes of drugs are in development in leptin modulator programme aimed at treating elsewhere.
Alongside explanation by the play this area.
CV safety has been given particular obesity.
The leptin modulator programme is of chance, this raised questions of whether emphasis in recent regulatory reviews and currently in pre-clinical development.
geographic differences between populations guidance documents provided by the FDA.
of patients or practice patterns influenced Additional patient safety requirements for Acute coronary syndromes the effects of the randomised treatments.
new medicines can also be anticipated from Acute coronary syndromes ACS is an While no definitive explanation has been other regulatory authorities.
umbrella term for sudden chest pain and found to date, further analyses suggest other symptoms due to insufficient blood a possible association between aspirin dose Our focus supply ischaemia to the heart muscles.
and the primary efficacy results, such that Our key marketed products ACS is the acute culmination of ischemic reduced efficacy was observed with ticagrelor 1 The collaboration on a worldwide basis heart disease, the leading cause of death and increasing aspirin doses.
AstraZeneca between AstraZeneca and BMS to develop worldwide WHO 2008.
There remains a and the PLATO investigators are continuing and commercialise two compounds significant need to improve outcomes and to explore these and other hypotheses, discovered by BMS Onglyza saxagliptin reduce the costs of treating ACS.
as well as other follow-on analyses of the and dapagliflozin for the treatment of Type 2 PLATO trial data set, and plan to publish in diabetes continues to make good progress.
In the pipeline During 2009, Onglyza was launched in the Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor is the first reversibly AstraZeneca filed an MAA for ticagrelor in US, Canada, Mexico, Germany, the UK and binding, oral, adenosine diphosphate October and an NDA in November.
Denmark and was approved in Argentina, receptor antagonist being developed to Brazil, India and the EU.
A large worldwide reduce the risk of blood clots and thrombotic Axanum is a single capsule of aspirin study assessing CV events will be conducted events in patients diagnosed with ACS.
In acetylsalicylic acid ASA 75-325mg and as a US post-marketing requirement.
August, AstraZeneca announced results from Nexium.
Low-dose ASA 75-325mg is the the Phase III study, PLATO, a head-to-head mainstay therapy for patients who are at high 1 The collaboration for saxagliptin excludes Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 59 Reviews risk of having a CV event such as a heart Our focus Sales of Seloken Toprol-XL and its authorised attack or stroke.
Patients report that low-dose In the pipeline generic increased by 84% to $1,443 million ASA treatment can cause gastrointestinal For the control of heart rhythm in AF, our focus in 2009, as a result of increased sales of GI problems and up to 30% of patients with is on atrial-specific agents as a way to reduce Toprol-XL and its authorised generic in the upper GI problems ie complications and the risk of pro-arrhythmic effects.
Sales in the US increased by 227% to symptoms caused by the use of low-dose compound in this area is in pre-clinical $964 million following the withdrawal from ASA discontinue or take deliberate breaks development.
During 2009, the development the market of two other generic metoprolol from their low-dose ASA treatment due to of AZD1305, a combined ion-channel blocker succinate products in early 2009.
However, we GI problems, which leaves them without which was in Phase II concept testing, was expect further generic competition in 2010. adequate CV protection and puts them at discontinued due to an emerging unfavourable greater risk of having a CV event.
The risk benefit risk profile.
Sales of Atacand in the US for the full year of a CV event increases as early as 10 days were unchanged from 2008 at $263 million, from the discontinuation of the treatment.
Our oral, direct thrombin inhibitor AZD0837 and account for 18% of global Atacand sales.
is ready to be taken into Phase III testing for Atacand sales outside the US were up 5% An NDA in respect of Axanum was submitted the prevention of strokes and other embolic to $1,173 million, with a 3% increase in Other to the FDA in April 2009 for risk reduction of events in AF patients, using a once-daily Established Markets and Canada and a peptic ulcers associated with low-dose ASA extended release formulation that provides a 13% increase in Emerging Markets.
75-325mg therapy in patients at risk.
The sustained anti-coagulation effect throughout proposed labelling also includes the approved the dosing interval.
AstraZeneca is Alliance revenue from the Onglyza low-dose ASA indications.
The submission considering the potential for AZD0837 in a collaboration with BMS totalled $11 million was based on the results of the OBERON and number of indications as well as evaluating in 2009.
ASTERIX studies evaluating the safety and potential collaborations with third parties for efficacy of Nexium in reducing the risk of its future development.
Performance 2008 gastric and or duodenal ulcers in patients Reported performance taking low-dose ASA 75-325mg continuously Litigation CV sales were up 4% as reported to $6,963 during the studies, which is defined as at Detailed information about material legal million 2007: $6,686 million.
Strong growth least five days per week.
proceedings relating to our CV products from Crestor, fuelled by the promotion of the can be found in Note 25 to the Financial atherosclerosis indication, and increased The data from the recent OBERON study, Statements from page 166. sales of Atacand offset the continuing a double-blind, randomised, prospective significant declines in Seloken Toprol-XL.
analysis of 2,426 patients taking low-dose Financial performance 2009 2008 ASA 75-325mg, revealed that each of Performance 2009 Performance CER growth rates Nexium 20mg and 40mg reduced the Reported performance CV sales were unchanged from 2007 at CER.
cumulative proportion of patients with peptic CV sales were up 20% as reported to Crestor sales increased by 26% to $3,597 ulcers after 26 weeks of treatment by 80-85% $8,376 million 2008: $6,963 million.
US sales for Crestor for the full year compared to placebo.
Upper GI symptoms Strong growth from Crestor, driven by the increased by 18% to $1,678 million.
Crestor were assessed showing that the proportion promotion of the atherosclerosis indication, total prescription share in the US statin market of patients treated with Nexium with upper and substantially increased sales of Toprol-XL increased to 9.9% in December 2008 from GI symptoms was significantly lower than in and the authorised generic version of the 8.6% in December 2007, and was the only the placebo arm.
drug in the US were the major contributors branded statin to gain market share.
Crestor to growth in CV sales.
sales outside the US were up 34% for the full The ASTERIX study was a randomised, year to $1,919 million, over half of global sales double-blind, placebo-controlled, study in Performance CER growth rates for the product.
Sales of Crestor were up 991 patients.
Patients were randomised to CV sales were up 25% from 2008 at CER.
16% in our Western Europe markets to $836 million and 93% in Japan.
Sales of Crestor in treatment with either once-daily Nexium 20mg or placebo for six months while continuing to Crestor sales increased by 29% to $4,502 Emerging Markets increased by 41%.
take their low-dose ASA therapy.
US sales for Crestor for the full year months, Nexium was shown to reduce the increased by 25% to $2,100 million.
The total Sales of Toprol-XL and authorised generic prescription share of Crestor in the US statin sales of the drug in the US were down 70% risk of developing an ulcer by 70%.
market increased to 11.3% in December for the full year to $295 million.
For the full Atrial fibrillation 2009 from 9.9% in December 2008, and it year, Seloken sales outside the US were up Atrial fibrillation AF is the most common was the only branded statin to gain market 1% to $512 million.
Crestor sales outside the US were up to control the symptoms of AF is dominated 33% for the full year to $2,402 million, over US sales for Atacand for the full year by generic amiodarone, which is effective at half of global sales for the product.
Sales of increased 1% to $262 million.
Atacand sales maintaining patients in normal heart rhythm Crestor were up 24% in our Western Europe outside the US were up 12% to $1,209 million, but very poorly tolerated.
AF is associated markets to $968 million and 58% in Japan, a 10% increase in Other Established Markets with an increased risk of cerebral embolism driving sales growth in Other Established and Canada, and an 18% increase in resulting in stroke and disability.
To reduce Markets and Canada up 33% in total.
the risk of such AF-related complications, of Crestor in Emerging Markets increased anti-coagulation with vitamin K antagonists by 32%.
New anti-coagulation therapies with improved convenience are emerging.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
