68 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Oncology Our strategic objectives In breast cancer, Zoladex is widely approved We aim to build on our position as a world for use in advanced breast cancer in preIn brief leader in cancer treatment through continued menopausal women.
In a number of countries, sales of Arimidex, the launch of a more Zoladex is also approved for the adjuvant Arimidex sales up 7% to $1.9 billion and continues efficacious dose of Faslodex Faslodex treatment of early stage pre-menopausal to be the leading branded hormonal therapy for 500mg, the growth of Iressa and the breast cancer as an alternative to and or in early breast cancer in the US, Japan, Spain, the UK and France.
successful introduction of novel therapeutic addition to chemotherapy.
Zoladex offers approaches currently in development, proven survival benefits for breast cancer Zoladex sales $1.1 billion, flat from the including both small molecule drugs and patients with a favourable tolerability profile.
biologics, targeted at defined patient Casodex sales $0.8 billion, down 34%, following populations with high unmet medical need.
Competition in the LHRH agonist market is expiry of patents in all major territories.
expected to increase in Europe during 2010, Iressa was approved in the EU for the treatment Cancer with the anticipated launches of generic of adults with locally advanced or metastatic Our focus goserelin.
This follows the launch of generic non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC with activating Our key marketed products goserelin one-month depot in Germany mutations of the epidermal growth factor receptortyrosine kinase EGFR-TK.
Arimidex continues to be the leading and the UK in 2009. branded hormonal therapy for patients with Faslodex 500mg has been shown to be more early breast cancer in the US, Japan, Spain, Iressa is approved in 66 countries and efficacious than Faslodex 250mg at treating breast cancer and regulatory submissions to the UK and France, and is also approved in is the leading epidermal growth factor change the dose have been made in the EU and a number of markets in Europe for a switch receptor-tyrosine kinase EGFR-TK inhibitor the US, together with the first filing in Japan.
indication for patients who have already in Japan and the Asia Pacific region where Withdrawal of the US and the EU regulatory received two to three years of tamoxifen.
it is marketed for pre-treated advanced submissions for Zactima in NSCLC in October but This success is largely based on the non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC.
Based clinical studies continue in a number of other extensive long-term efficacy and safety on data from the Phase III INTEREST study, types of cancer.
results of the ATAC study, which showed which compared Iressa with docetaxel in Registration studies ongoing for Recentin in first Arimidex to be significantly superior to pre-treated NSCLC, and the Phase III IPASS line colorectal cancer and recurrent glioblastoma tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer study, which compared Iressa with doublet multiforme and NSCLC.
recurrence during and beyond the five-year chemotherapy carboplatin paclitaxel in 1st Registration studies ongoing for zibotentan treatment course.
Breast cancer recurrence line NSCLC patients, a marketing authorisation ZD4054 in castrate resistant prostate cancer.
is defined as loco-regional recurrence, distant for Iressa for the treatment of EGFR mutationOlaparib AZD2281 is in ongoing Phase II studies recurrence or contra-lateral breast cancer.
positive advanced NSCLC patients all lines for the treatment of certain types of breast and of therapy was granted by the EMEA in June, ovarian cancer.
Olaparib will progress to Phase III Faslodex 250mg is now approved in 70 followed by the European launch in July.
development in breast cancer with genetic DNA repair deficits.
markets and offers an additional hormonal AstraZeneca is consulting with other therapy option for patients with hormoneregulatory authorities regarding the data Teva Parenteral Medicines Teva Par has receptor positive advanced breast cancer, from the IPASS study and is progressing challenged our patents for Faslodex.
In January 2010, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement delaying the need for cytotoxic chemotherapy.
action against Teva Par in the US District Court It is a once-monthly injection approved for for the District of Delaware.
the 2nd line treatment of hormone-receptor We have various distribution and marketing positive advanced breast cancer in arrangements for branded Ethyol.
In the US, post-menopausal women.
Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc. is authorised to distribute Ethyol.
Outside the US, our Our marketed products Casodex is used as a 50mg tablet for the two main distribution partners are Pinnacle Arimidex anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer, and Biologics, Inc. for our Western Europe treatment of early breast cancer.
as a 150mg tablet for the treatment of locally markets, Turkey and Israel, and Scherico Ltd Zoladex goserelin acetate implant, in oneand advanced prostate cancer.
three-month depots, is a luteinising hormone-releasing hormone agonist for the treatment of prostate cancer, Zoladex, a luteinising hormone-releasing In the pipeline breast cancer and certain benign gynaecological disorders.
hormone LHRH agonist, is approved in 120 Zactima vandetanib is a potential new oral countries.
It is approved for the treatment anti-cancer therapy, which has a unique Casodex bicalutamide is an anti-androgen therapy for the treatment of prostate cancer.
of prostate cancer, breast cancer and anti-cancer profile through two clinically certain benign gynaecological disorders.
It blocks the Iressa gefitinib is an EGFR-TK inhibitor that acts to block signals for cancer cell growth and survival in In non-metastatic prostate cancer, Zoladex development of a tumours blood supply NSCLC.
has been shown to improve overall survival, anti-angiogenesis and blocks the growth Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable oestrogen both when used in addition to radical and survival of the tumour itself anti-EGFR.
receptor antagonist for the treatment of breast cancer.
prostatectomy and when used in addition to Vandetanib also inhibits RET rearranged Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a widely radiotherapy.
The 10-year follow-up results during transfectionkinase activity, an prescribed breast cancer treatment outside the US.
of a study for the European Organisation for important growth driver in certain types of Research and Treatment of Cancer confirmed thyroid cancer.
In June, AstraZeneca made the long-term survival benefits of Zoladex submissions to the FDA and the EMEA for the when used as adjuvant to radiotherapy in use of vandetanib 100mg in combination with patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.
chemotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC.
The decision to withdraw these Patient recruitment for the HORIZON CRC MAT Q3 09 submissions was based on an updated programme completed last year and the analysis that demonstrated no overall survival Phase III REGAL study in rGBM comparing advantage when vandetanib was added Recentin monotherapy versus lomustine - to chemotherapy as well as preliminary Recentin finished enrolling patients in D feedback from regulatory authorities that the third quarter of 2009.
Recruitment in the the submissions based on progression-free BR29 study investigating Recentin at 20mg A survival as the primary endpoint might not plus carboplatin paclitaxel versus carboplatin C be sufficient for approval.
paclitaxel alone in NSCLC is ongoing.
The initial read-outs for Phase III of the HORIZON The ZEPHYR study of vandetanib 300mg and REGAL studies are expected in the first B monotherapy versus placebo in patients who half of 2010. have previously progressed on EGFR-TK inhibitor treatment did not meet its primary Encouraging Phase II data for Recentin in Market sectors $bn endpoint of overall survival.
This completes renal cancer, prostate cancer, alveolar soft A Chemotherapy 18.2 the Phase III development of vandetanib.
part sarcoma, NSCLC and rGBM were also B Monoclonal antibodies 14.4 AstraZeneca has no current plans to make presented in 2009.
C Hormonal therapies 8.8 regulatory submissions in respect of D Small molecule TKIs 7.2 vandetanib for the treatment of NSCLC.
Zibotentan ZD4054 is an oral once-daily potent and specific endothelin A-receptor The world market value for cancer therapies The ZETA study met its primary endpoint, antagonist.
Data from Phase II studies is $49 billion and continues to grow.
showing that vandetanib 300mg significantly suggested that in men with metastatic An increasing number of large research-based extends progression-free survival in patients castrate resistant prostate cancer CRPC, pharmaceutical and biotech companies have a stated ambition to build their business in oncology.
with advanced medullary thyroid cancer.
zibotentan 10mg demonstrated a promising For several years there has been a substantial The safety profile of vandetanib in the ZETA survival benefit and a generally well-tolerated increase in cancer-based clinical study activity.
study was manageable, which is similar to the side effect profile.
Zibotentan 10mg is now According to IMS data, value growth in oncology will continue at double digit compound annual findings of other studies.
Medullary thyroid in Phase III development.
The Phase III growth rates and is, therefore, well above the cancer is a rare cancer with no currently ENTHUSE studies are investigating efficacy growth rates of other therapy areas.
AstraZeneca will be in metastatic CRPC, both as monotherapy discussing the data from the ZETA study and in combination with docetaxel, and in with regulatory authorities.
Results from the CONFIRM study demonstrate Olaparib AZD2281 is an oral poly-ADPthat Faslodex 500mg offers a superior ribose-polymerase inhibitor, a new class of benefit risk profile to Faslodex 250mg for the drug which potentially offers an innovative 49bn treatment of breast cancer.
This data has therapeutic approach to treating cancers by The world market value for cancer formed the basis of regulatory submissions targeting a weakness in DNA repair inherent in therapies is $49 billion and continues across the globe.
Olaparib is currently being to grow evaluated in Phase II studies for the treatment Recentin cediranib is a highly potent of certain types of breast and ovarian cancer.
anti-angiogenic agent that inhibits all three The initial Phase III programme which is vascular endothelial growth factor receptors planned to start in mid 2010 focuses on breast and is suitable for once-daily oral dosing.
cancer with genetic DNA repair deficits.
It is currently in Phase III development in first line colorectal cancer CRC and recurrent glioblastoma rGBM.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 70 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Our early oncology pipeline includes a range In 2009, three additional oncology antibody Performance 2008 of novel compounds that target signalling programmes entered into Phase I studies Reported performance pathways believed to be pivotal in cancer targeting a variety of advanced solid Oncology sales increased by 3% on a cell growth, tumour invasion, DNA repair tumours using different pathways such as reported basis to $4,954 million up from mechanisms and survival.
Phase II data from insulin-like growth factors and specific cell $4,819 million in 2007.
AZD6244, a potent MEK mitogen-activated surface receptors.
protein kinase 1 inhibitor licensed from Performance CER growth rates Array, showed biological activity in lung In 2009, AstraZeneca discontinued its Oncology sales were down 2% at CER.
In June, a deal was development of blinatumomab MT-103 Arimidex sales were up 4% to $1,857 million.
signed with Merck relating to a combination MEDI-538 in the US and returned the North In the US, Arimidex sales were up 9% to of AstraZenecas AZD6244 and Mercks American licence rights for blinatumomab $754 million.
Outside the US, Arimidex sales MK-2206.
AZD6244 has been shown to affect to Micromet, Inc. increased by 1% to $1,103 million.
MEK, an important signal that promotes cancer cell growth and survival: while In 2009, AstraZeneca entered into a research Casodex sales decreased by 12% to $1,258 Mercks MK-2206 is a novel AKT kinase collaboration with the Institute of Cancer million, with sales in the US down by 2% and inhibitor, which acts on a complementary Research UK and Cancer Research sales outside the US down by 15%.
signalling pathway in cancer cells.
By using Technology Limited to jointly discover inhibitors a combination of both of these compounds, of targets on a novel pathway which is thought Iressa sales for the year were up 3% as the aim is to explore the potential effect of to be important in a range of tumour types.
growth in Emerging Markets more than blocking multiple points along a signalling offset the 3% decline in sales in Japan.
pathway thereby preventing tumour growth.
Litigation Detailed information about material legal Faslodex sales were up 12% with a 5% In December, AstraZeneca entered into proceedings relating to our Oncology increase in the US and an 18% increase a master collaboration agreement with Dako products can be found in Note 25 to the outside the US.
to develop companion diagnostic tests for Financial Statements from page 166. selected cancer treatments.
This agreement forms part of AstraZenecas personalised Financial performance 2009 2008 healthcare strategy, and will have benefits Performance 2009 for more than 10 of AstraZenecas oncology Reported performance drug projects in early development.
Oncology sales decreased by 9% on a reported basis to $4,518 million down from AZD8055, AZD8931, AZD1480 and AZD4547 $4,954 million in 2008. are all undergoing Phase I studies.
AZD1152, an aurora kinase inhibitor, has shown activity Performance CER growth rates in acute myelogenous leukaemia and will Oncology sales were down 7% at CER.
complete Phase II studies in mid-2010.
Arimidex sales were up 7% to $1,921 million.
We are also developing potential new cancer In the US, Arimidex sales were up 16% to treatments using biological approaches with $878 million.
Outside the US, sales were flat highly defined molecular targets for patient at $1,043 million.
populations with unmet medical need and currently have four Phase I studies ongoing Casodex sales decreased by 34% to $844 with biologics.
million, with sales in the US down by 49% and sales outside the US down by 29% due Our early biologics pipeline consists of to continued erosion from generic competition.
MAbs directed against processes central to tumour progression.
We are also developing Iressa sales for the year were up 8% with MAbs that enhance the ability of a patients growth in China 11%, Western Europe own immune system to kill cancer cells.
CAT-8015 is a biologic being investigated for Faslodex sales were up 10% with a 5% the treatment of blood-based malignancies, increase in the US and a 15% increase including lymphoma and leukaemia.
It targets outside the US.
a common protein receptor found on the majority ofcell cancers.
In 2009, Phase I development for CAT-8015 continued to move forward incell lymphoma and leukaemia.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
