Directors Report | Financial Review 37 Reviews The purpose of this Financial Review is to Prescription volumes and trends for key Core financial measures are non-GAAP, provide a balanced and comprehensive products.
These measures can represent adjusted measures.
All items for which Core analysis of the financial performance of the the real business growth and the progress financial measures are adjusted are included business during 2009, the financial position as of individual products better and more in our Reported financial information because at the end of the year and the main business immediately than invoiced sales.
they represent actual costs of our business factors and trends which could affect the Net Funds Debt.
This represents our in the periods presented.
As a result, Core future financial performance of the business.
interest bearing loans and borrowings, financial measures merely allow investors to less cash and cash equivalents, differentiate among different kinds of costs All growth rates in this Financial Review are current investments and derivative and they should not be used in isolation.
expressed at CER unless noted otherwise.
You should also refer to our Reported financial information in the Operating profit 2009 and Measuring performance CER measures allow us to focus on the 2008 table on page 39, our reconciliation of The following measures are referred to when changes in sales and expenses driven by Core financial measures to Reported financial reporting on our performance both in absolute volume, prices and cost levels relative to the information in the Reconciliation of Reported terms but more often in comparison to earlier prior period.
Sales and cost growth expressed results to Core results table on page 40, years in this Financial Review: in CER allows management to understand and to the Results of operations summary the true local movement in sales and costs, in analysis of year to 31 December 2008 Reported performance.
Reported order to compare recent trends and relative section from page 42 for our discussion of performance takes into account all the return on investment.
CER growth rates can comparative Reported growth measures factors including those which we cannot be used to analyse sales in a number of ways that reflect all of the factors that affect our influence, principally currency exchange but, most often, we consider CER growth business.
Our determination of non-GAAP rates that have affected the results of by products and groups of products, and by measures, together with our presentation our business as reflected in our Group countries and regions.
CER sales growth of them within this financial information, Financial Statements prepared in can be further analysed into the impact of may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP accordance with IFRS as adopted by sales volumes and selling price.
Similarly, measures of other companies.
the EU and as issued by the IASB.
CER cost growth helps us to focus on the Core financial measures.
These are real local change in costs so that we can The SET retains strategic management of non-GAAP measures because unlike manage the cost base effectively.
the costs excluded from Reported financial Reported performance they cannot be information in arriving at Core financial derived directly from the information in We believe that disclosing Core financial and measures, tracking their impact on Reported the Groups Financial Statements.
growth measures in addition to our Reported operating profit and EPS, with operational These measures are adjusted to exclude financial information enhances investors management being delegated on a case-bycertain significant items, such as charges ability to evaluate and analyse the underlying case basis to ensure clear accountability and provisions related to our global financial performance of our ongoing and consistency for each cost category.
restructuring and synergy programmes, business and the related key business drivers.
amortisation and impairment of the The adjustments made to our Reported Business background and major significant intangibles relating to the events affecting 2009 financial information in order to show Core acquisition of MedImmune in 2007, financial measures illustrate clearly and on The business background is covered in the the amortisation and impairment of the a year-on-year or period-by-period basis Business Environment section, Geographical significant intangibles relating to our the impact upon our performance caused Review and Therapy Area Review and current and future exit arrangements describes in detail the developments in both by factors such as changes in sales and with Merck in the US and other specified expenses driven by volume, prices and cost our products and geographical regions.
See the Reconciliation of levels relative to such prior years or periods.
Reported results to Core results table Sales of our products are directly influenced on page 40 for a reconciliation of by medical need and are generally paid for Further, as shown in the Reconciliation of Reported to Core performance.
Reported results to Core results table on page by health insurance schemes or national Constant exchange rate CER growth 40, our reconciliation of Reported financial healthcare budgets.
These are also non-GAAP measures.
information to Core financial measures can be affected by a number of factors other These measures remove the effects of than the delivery of operating plans and includes a breakdown of the items for which currency movements by retranslating the our Reported financial information is adjusted normal competition which are: current years performance at previous and a further breakdown of those items by years exchange rates and adjusting for specific line item as such items are reflected in The adverse impact on pharmaceutical other exchange effects, including hedging.
prices as a result of the regulatory our Reported income statement, to illustrate A reconciliation of the Reported results the significant items that are excluded from environment.
For instance, although there adjusted for the impact of currency Core financial measures and their impact on is no direct governmental control on prices movements is provided in the Operating our Reported financial information, both as in the US, action from individual state profit 2009 and 2008 table on page 39. programmes and health insurance bodies a whole and in respect of specific line items.
Gross margin and operating profit margin is leading to downward pressures on percentages.
These measures set out Management presents these results realised prices.
In other parts of the world, the progression of key performance externally to meet investors requirements there are a variety of price and volume margins and demonstrate the overall control mechanisms and retrospective for transparency and clarity.
Core financial quality of the business.
measures are also used internally in the rebates based on sales levels that are management of our business performance, imposed by governments.
in our budgeting process and when determining compensation.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
