62 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Infection Our strategic objectives intra-abdominal, urinary tract and hospital We aim to build a leading franchise in the acquired pneumonia.
CEF104 is a combination In brief treatment of infectious diseases through of NXL-104 and ceftaroline, which is expected continued commercialisation of brands to move into Phase II development in late 2010 Synagis sales of $1.1 billion: in the US $782 million.
such as Synagis, Merrem and FluMist, in indications where a mixed Gram-negative effective use of our structural and genomicand Gram-positive profile can be of use, Merrem Meronem sales of $872 million, up 5%.
based discovery technologies and antibody such as skin and diabetic foot infections.
H1N1 influenza swine flu vaccine successfully platforms, and continued research into novel developed and delivered to the US Department approaches in areas of unmet medical need.
To meet the high and growing need for new of Health and Human Services HHS sales $389 million.
and better therapies for resistant bacterial Resistant bacterial infections infections we have also built an anti-bacterials FluMist sales of $145 million.
World demand for antibiotics remains discovery capability that places AstraZeneca Filed formal regulatory reply to the motavizumab high due to escalating resistance and the among the industry leaders with the capability Complete Response Letter.
increased risk of serious infections in both to create novel mechanism anti-bacterials.
immunosuppressed patients and ageing Out of this work, a candidate anti-bacterial In-licence of ceftaroline from Forest outside the US, Canada and Japan.
Many bacterial infections currently drug, AZD9742, with a novel mechanism of have few satisfactory treatment options action entered Phase I testing late in 2009.
Acquired the infection research company Novexel prompting demand for new and better completion of the acquisition is subject to the expiry or termination of the applicable waiting therapies.
The in-licensing from Forest of Respiratory syncytial virus period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust ceftaroline, ceftazidime NXL-104 CAZ104 Approximately half of all infants are infected Improvements Act.
and ceftaroline NXL-104 CEF104 adds to the with respiratory syncytial virus RSV during Expanded collaboration with Forest to include strong AstraZeneca portfolio and reinforces the first year of life and nearly all children two antibiotic development programmes: our commitment to treating resistant in the US have been infected by the time ceftazidime NXL-104 CAZ104 and ceftaroline bacterial infections.
they reach their second birthday.
other viral infections, there is no complete Our focus and durable immunity created by RSV, so Our key marketed products repeated infection is likely and common.
Our marketed products Merrem Meronem is the leading carbapenem Premature babies earlier than 36 weeks anti-bacterial and has a growing share of gestational age, especially those less than Synagis palivizumab is a humanised MAb used for the the intravenous antibiotic market because 32 weeks and babies with chronic lung prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease of its activity against bacteria resistant to disease or congenital heart disease are at caused by respiratory syncytial virus RSV in paediatric patients at high risk of acquiring RSV disease.
Cubicin is used for the an even greater risk of contracting severe treatment of serious Gram-positive infections RSV disease than full-term babies.
1 Merrem Meronem meropenem is a carbapenem anti-bacterial used for the treatment of serious infections in hospitalised patients and is sold by in hospitalised patients.
AstraZeneca in selected territories in Asia Our focus FluMist influenza virus vaccine live, intranasal is a live, and the Middle East.
Our key marketed products attenuated, trivalent influenza virus vaccine approved Synagis is used for the prevention of serious for active immunisation of people two to 49 years of In the pipeline lower respiratory tract disease caused by age against influenza disease caused by influenza virus subtypes A and B contained in the vaccine.
During 2009, we licensed ceftaroline RSV in children at high risk of the disease.
from Forest and will be responsible for its It was the first MAb approved in the US for H1N1 influenza swine flu vaccine was successfully developed and delivered to the HHS and is indicated registration and marketing outside the US, an infectious disease and since its launch in for the active immunisation of individuals two to 49 Canada and Japan.
Four Phase III studies 1998 it has become the standard of care years of age against influenza caused by pandemic have been completed for ceftaroline, with for RSV prevention.
NDA filings made in December and MAA only immunoprophylaxis in the marketplace 2 Cubicin daptomycin is a cyclic lipopeptide filings anticipated in 2010.
Ceftaroline has indicated for the prevention of RSV in anti-bacterial used for the treatment of serious infections in hospitalised patients.
demonstrated activity against a number of paediatric patients at high risk of RSV.
Synagis 1 infections and multi-drug resistant pathogens, is administered by intra-muscular injection.
Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd. 2 Licensed from Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc. including MRSA.
In the pipeline In December we acquired Novexel completion We filed a biological licence application with of the acquisition is subject to the expiry or the FDA for an improved anti-RSV MAb, termination of the applicable waiting period motavizumab, and received a Complete under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Response Letter in 2008.
We filed a formal Improvements Act, a private infection research regulatory reply to the Complete Response company in France, and we will collaborate Letter in December 2009.
We do not believe with Forest on the future co-development that further clinical studies will be required and commercialisation of two antibiotic by the FDA for marketing approval.
CAZ104 is a combination of In addition, an intranasal vaccine is being NXL-104 and ceftazidime, a third generation developed for the prevention of lower cephalosporin to which resistance has respiratory tract illness caused by RSV and emerged.
It is expected to move into Phase III parainfluenza virus-3 PIV3 in infants.
There development in late 2010 for serious infections are two RSV vaccine programmes: MEDI-559 requiring intensive care unit stays such as and MEDI-534.
We are conducting several AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review 63 Reviews Our financial performance 2009 2008 2007 2009 compared to 2008 2008 compared to 2007 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Merrem 872 44 69 897 97 27 773 5 3 13 16 1 Synagis 1,082 148 1,230 612 618 12 12 n m n m 1 FluMist 145 41 104 51 53 39 39 n m n m H1N1 influenza vaccine 389 389 n m n m n m n m Other 143 69 8 220 54 4 270 31 35 20 19 Total 2,631 257 77 2,451 706 31 1,714 10 7 41 43 1 Acquired in June 2007.
Therapy area world market Phase I and Phase I II studies for these vaccine, which is made using the same MAT Q3 09 vaccines, both alone and in collaboration technology and process as FluMist, was with the US National Institute of Allergy and approved by the FDA in September for Infectious Diseases.
the same patient population as FluMist.
AstraZeneca began shipping product to Influenza virus the HHS in September.
C Influenza is the most common vaccineA preventable disease in the developed world.
In the pipeline According to WHO estimates, seasonal We continually strive to seek ways to improve influenza results in three to five million cases of our influenza vaccine.
Each year we conduct severe illness and up to half a million deaths clinical studies enabling us to develop and B globally each year, primarily among the release a new vaccine for that years influenza elderly.
Rates of infection are highest virus.
In addition, we are investigating the among children, with school-aged children potential of a quadravalent live attenuated significantly contributing to the spread of the influenza vaccine and have two studies for Market sectors $bn A Anti-bacterials 35.2 disease.
Influenza also has socio-economic this underway.
B Anti-virals 22.1 consequences related to both direct C Others 20.6 and indirect healthcare costs, including Hepatitis C virus hospitalisations, work absence and loss of Hepatitis C virus HCV infects an estimated The world infection market is valued at work productivity when either a caregiver or 170 million people worldwide and the current $78 billion, with anti-bacterials accounting child is sick with influenza.
market for HCV therapy exceeds $2 billion for approximately 45% and anti-virals for 28%.
However, therapy for the strains that World demand for antibiotics remains high, due Our focus predominate in the US and Western Europe to escalating resistance and the increased risk of serious infections in both immunosuppressed Our key marketed products requires 12 months treatment and produces patients and ageing populations.
Approximately FluMist is the first live, attenuated nasally a durable cure in only 50% of patients.
Key half of all infants are infected with RSV during the first year of life.
Seasonal inuenza results in three delivered vaccine approved in the US for the opinion leaders expect the current standard to five million cases of severe illness and up to prevention of disease caused by influenza of treatment interferon plus ribavirin to a half a million deaths globally each year.
virus subtypes A and B in eligible children and change to a form of combination therapy adults, two to 49 years of age.
Beginning in the involving one or more new mechanism of 2009 2010 season, the Centers for Disease action direct-acting anti-virals and there are Control and Preventions Advisory Committee several small and large pharmaceutical on Immunization Practices in the US voted to companies with varying HCV pipelines expand recommendations for routine seasonal focused on such therapies.
A future paradigm influenza vaccination to include all school-age of combinations of anti-virals as standard 78bn children up to 18 years of age.
In 2009, FluMist care offers the opportunity for several new The world infection market is valued was approved for marketing in South Korea, therapies to be widely used.
at $78 billion, with anti-bacterials Hong Kong and Israel.
Applications are accounting for approximately 45% under review in Canada, Mexico and the EU.
Our focus and anti-virals for 28% The total product supply of approximately In the pipeline 10 million seasonal FluMist doses sold out Projects in development include AZD7295, in 2009. a novel HCV compound, currently in Phase II.
In response to the novel H1N1 influenza Sepsis swine flu pandemic need in 2009, the US Sepsis is a life-threatening condition resulting Department of Health and Human Services from uncontrolled severe infections, which HHS awarded AstraZeneca a contract to affects an estimated three million people develop and manufacture 42 million doses of a year worldwide.
Few industry pipelines are influenza A H1N1 2009 monovalent vaccine.
focused on the development of products The total contract value is approximately specifically for registration for the treatment $389 million.
The monovalent H1N1 influenza of sepsis or septic shock.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 64 Directors Report | Therapy Area Review Our focus Financial performance 2009 2008 In the pipeline Performance 2009 The development programme for CytoFab, Reported performance an anti-TNF polyclonal antibody, our Total Infection sales increased on a reported potential treatment for severe sepsis licensed basis by 7% to $2,631 million.
H1N1 influenza from Protherics Inc. now part of the BTG plc vaccine sales were $389 million.
group, continues in Phase II development.
CytoFab has the potential to be one of Performance CER growth rates a limited number of medicines specifically Infection sales were up 10% at CER.
This was developed for patients with severe sepsis.
driven by sales of $389 million for the H1N1 influenza vaccine to the US government and Tuberculosis continued growth in Merrem Meronem 5% Tuberculosis TB remains a worldwide threat and FluMist 39%, which more than offset and is newly diagnosed in over eight million the 12% decline in Synagis sales.
It is one of the greatest causes of death from infectious Worldwide sales of Synagis in the fourth disease in the developing world.
quarter were $401 million, a 21% decrease from the same period in 2008, driven by Our focus a decrease of 31% of US Synagis sales for As part of our commitment to make a the fourth quarter.
This decline in the US is contribution to improving health in the a result of the adoption of new guidelines developing world, we are working to find published by the American Academy of a new, improved treatment for TB.
We have Pediatrics restricting the usage of Synagis a dedicated research facility in Bangalore, at the start of the 2009 2010 RSV season.
India that is focused on finding a treatment for TB that will act on drug-resistant strains, FluMist sales were $145 million for the full year.
simplify the treatment regime current regimes are complex and lengthy, meaning many Performance 2008 patients give up before the infection is fully Reported performance treated and will be compatible with HIV AIDS Total Infection sales increased on a reported therapies TB and HIV AIDS form a lethal basis by 43% to $2,451 million as a full year combination, each speeding the others of Synagis and FluMist sales were taken progress.
Over 80 scientists in Bangalore are in the Group for the first time, and working closely with our infection research Merrem Meronem sales enjoyed another centre in Boston, US as well as with academic year of good growth.
leaders in the field, and they have full access to all AstraZenecas platform technologies, Performance CER growth rates such as high throughput screening and Infection sales were up 41% at CER.
It is a complex area of research but a candidate drug, AZD5847, For the full year, Synagis sales were entered Phase I studies late in 2009.
Synagis sales in 2007 were $618 million, but this only reflected sales Litigation since the acquisition of MedImmune in June Detailed information about material legal 2007.
Worldwide sales of Synagis in the fourth proceedings relating to our Infection products quarter were $506 million, a 5% increase over can be found in Note 25 to the Financial the same period in 2007 when the product Statements from page 166. was included in sales.
FluMist sales were $104 million for the full year.
In contrast to 2008, all of 2007s FluMist sales of $53 million were realised in the fourth quarter as a result of the timing of regulatory approvals for the new formulation and expanded label.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
