16 Directors Report | Strategy and Performance Strategy, objectives and 2009 performance Strategic priority Initiatives Objective for three years to end 2010 Measure 2009 performance summary Strengthen the pipeline To be one of the fastest and most Accessing the best potential innovative medicines Deliver two new product launches on average per year Regulatory approvals Onglyza approved in 36 countries: Iressa approved in the EU productive companies in the industry to meet unmet patient need through from 2010 H1N1 influenza vaccine approved in the US.
See Therapy Area Review from page 55 through continuous improvement in small molecule and biologics R&D our in-house R&D.
Seek leading science externalisation In order to achieve the above ensure we have 10 or Projects entering development 29 projects entering development.
See Strengthening the pipeline section on page 24 outside AstraZeneca to broaden our more products in Phase III development or registration research base and further strengthen Value-creating collaborations and business Major late-stage in-licensing deals signed with Targacept, Forest and Nektar Embedding culture of continuous our pipeline of new products development activities improvement through Agreed to acquire Novexel.
See Working with others section from page 22 leading-edge science Major regulatory submissions Submissions made for Brilinta, Certriad, Vimovo and Onglyza metformin: Zactima submission withdrawn collaborations business efficiency H1N1 influenza vaccine approved in the US.
See Therapy Area Review from page 55 Achieve a median composite eight-year product Development cycle times for small molecule On track to deliver 2010 targets.
See Improving productivity section from page 24 development cycle and biologics vaccines Grow the business To maintain our position among the Building on leadership positions in existing markets Deliver sales growth in line with market growth Deliver targeted sales and contribution Global sales 7% at CER.
See 2009 Results of operations section from page 38 industry leaders through a continued to provide a return on our investment growth at CER focus on driving commercial excellence Expanding presence in important emerging markets Successful life-cycle projects Additional approvals in the US for Seroquel and Seroquel XR: presented results of Crestor JUPITER trials and regulatory submissions made in the US and the EU.
See Therapy Area Review from page 55 Driving high standards of sales force effectiveness, marketing excellence and customer support launched in the US and the EU: Iressa launched in the EU Profitably launch in-licensed and existing projects Successful launches Onglyza Developing our brands to maximise patient benefit Symbicort approved in Japan and launched in January 2010.
See Therapy Area Review from page 55 and commercial potential Securing new external commercial collaborations Commercial collaborations Four major co-promotion collaborations signed Abbott, Astellas, UCB and Salix.
See Working with others section on page 22 Reshape the business To create an organisation with the Implementing and expanding restructuring programme Annual benefits of $2.1 billion from restructuring Cost savings Annualised benefits of $1.6 billion in 2009.
See Strategy and Performance section from page 14 flexibility and financial strength to adapt quickly and effectively within Operations asset and sourcing strategy Maintain margins Gross margin Target exceeded: core gross margin of 83%.
See 2009 Results of operations section from page 38 a challenging and rapidly changing business environment Operating profit margin Core operating profit margin of 41.5%.
See 2009 Results of operations section from page 38 Delivering continuous improvement across Improve R&D unit costs by 15% Unit cost metrics Progress towards target.
See Improving productivity section from page 24 R&D through smarter working business process outsourcing G&A strategy Achieve planned improvement in selling, general and SG&A cost growth rates Core SG&A growth of 5%.
See 2009 Results of operations section from page 38 administrative SG&A costs Marketing, sales and commercial strategies Western Europe and Emerging Markets resource optimisation plans North America customer-driven interactions Procurement strategy Procurement savings Cost savings Delivered savings of $555 million against a target of $500 million Promote a culture of responsibility and accountability To create an organisation that is Maintain improve levels of employee engagement Upper quartile industry ranking for Levels of employee engagement as measured 86% of our employees completed the FOCUS survey, and employee engagement improved by 2 percentage points recognised not only for the skills, employee engagement by our global employee survey FOCUS from 2008.
This is above the industry average.
See Engagement and dialogue section on page 34 experience and quality of its people, but also for the integrity with which Strengthening leadership development frameworks Achieve step change in leadership and Improve senior leadership clarity of direction 2009 score improved by 3 percentage points over 2008 to 72% favourable.
This follows significant efforts to improve it conducts its business management capability as measured by our FOCUS survey the quality and effectiveness of senior leaders communication to the organisation.
See Engagement and dialogue section on page 34 Integrating responsible business considerations into Ensure that a culture of responsible business, including Number of confirmed breaches of external 24 confirmed breaches of external sales and marketing regulations or codes.
See Sales and marketing ethics section everyday business thinking and decision-making compliance, is embedded across all our activities sales and marketing regulations or codes from page 29 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 9% reduction in CO emissions.
See Climate change section on page 76 2 1, 2 Waste production 8% reduction in total waste production.
See Waste management section on page 76 1 Rate of accidents with serious injury 2% reduction in accidents with serious injury.
See Safety, health and wellbeing section on page 35 1 Rate of occupational illness 32% increase in cases of occupational illness.
See Safety, health and wellbeing section on page 35 Ranking in Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Positioned in the top 6% in the sector in the Dow Jones World and STOXX European Indexes AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Strategy and Performance 17 Performance Strategic priority Initiatives Objective for three years to end 2010 Measure 2009 performance summary Strengthen the pipeline To be one of the fastest and most Accessing the best potential innovative medicines Deliver two new product launches on average per year Regulatory approvals Onglyza approved in 36 countries: Iressa approved in the EU productive companies in the industry to meet unmet patient need through from 2010 H1N1 influenza vaccine approved in the US.
See Safety, health and wellbeing section on page 35 Ranking in Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Positioned in the top 6% in the sector in the Dow Jones World and STOXX European Indexes 1 Data exclude MedImmune.
2 We have replaced our previous ozone depleting potential ODP KPI with waste production, as we believe it is now a more meaningful environmental sustainability indicator for AstraZeneca.
ODP data continue to be published on our website, astrazeneca.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
