90 Directors Report | Senior Executive Team 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 01 David Brennan 02 Simon Lowth Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Executive David was appointed Chief Executive Officer Simon joined AstraZeneca as an Executive of AstraZeneca in January 2006.
From 2001 Director and Chief Financial Officer in Team until then, David was President and Chief November 2007.
He was previously at Executive Officer of the Companys North ScottishPower where he was Finance at 31 December American subsidiary.
Simon left ScottishPower following completion of the sale to Iberdrola.
David began his career in 1975 at Merck, where he started as a sales representative His move to ScottishPower followed in the US Division and later worked in sales 15 years experience with the global and marketing management in the US and management consultancy, McKinsey & International divisions.
He joined Astra Merck Company where he advised leading in 1992 and helped to build the joint venture multinational companies on a wide range of into a multi-billion dollar business in the US.
strategic, financial and operational issues.
He is an alumnus of Gettysburg College Simon has an engineering degree from where he studied Business Administration.
Cambridge University and an MBA from London Business School.
For further information on David, see the Board of Directors at 31 December section For further information on Simon, see the from page 88.
Board of Directors at 31 December section from page 88.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Senior Executive Team 91 Corporate Governance 1 1 03 Bruno Angelici 06 Jeff Pott 09 Tony Zook Executive Vice-President, International Sales General Counsel Chief Executive Officer, North America, and Marketing Organisation until 31 December President, MedImmune and Executive Jeff was appointed General Counsel from Vice-President, Commercial Operations From 2001 until 31 December 2009, Bruno was 1 January 2009 and has overall responsibility Tony has responsibility for our worldwide sales responsible for Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific, for all aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and and marketing activities, including Global Latin America, Middle East and Africa.
He took up this newly created post this he served as President of AstraZeneca on 1 January 2010 in addition to his continuing Japan.
Bruno originally joined AstraZeneca in He joined AstraZeneca in 1996 and has worked responsibilities as Executive Vice-President, 1989 as President of ICI Pharma France.
He in various litigation roles, where he has had North America and President of MedImmune.
began his career in the food industry and then responsibility for intellectual property, He joined Astra USA in 1997 as Vice-President, joined Baxter Healthcare where he became anti-trust and product liability litigation.
Prior Marketing and Sales, having begun his Managing Director for Baxter in France.
to joining AstraZeneca, Jeff spent five years pharmaceutical career at Berlex Laboratories.
at US legal firm Drinker Biddle and Reath, He holds an MBA from the Kellogg School of where he specialised in pharmaceutical Tony earned a bachelors degree in Management, Chicago, is a member of the product liability litigation and anti-trust advice biology from Frostburg University, and an Supervisory Board of Wolters Kluwer and is and litigation.
associates degree in chemical engineering President of the Supervisory Board of Reims from Pennsylvania State University.
He was received into Jeff received his bachelors degree in Political a member of the board for First State the Lgion dhonneur in December 2009.
Science from Wheaton College and his Jurus Innovation, the Pennsylvania Division of the Doctor Degree from Villanova University American Cancer Society and is a member Bruno will be leaving AstraZeneca in 2010.
of the Board of Trustees for the Healthcare Leadership Council.
04 Anders Ekblom 07 David Smith Executive Vice-President, Development Executive Vice-President, Operations 1 Changes affecting the positions of Bruno Angelici Before he took over responsibility for Global David joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as and Tony Zook in 2010 are described in the Drug Development, Anders was responsible Executive Vice-President, Operations.
Reserved matters and delegation of authority for Global Clinical Development, the largest section on page 92.
He leads AstraZenecas global manufacturing single function in R&D, operating across and supply organisation and is also responsible medicine development and life-cycle for the AstraZeneca Group Safety, Health management.
He joined Astra in 1993 from the and Environment, Regulatory Compliance, Karolinska Institute and Karolinska Hospital Purchasing and Engineering functions.
in Stockholm, where he was a senior lecturer As of 27 January 2010, David has assumed and Director for the Perianesthetic Unit.
overall responsibility for Corporate Information Services.
Anders is President of AstraZeneca Sverige AB, and Director of Albireo Ltd.
He is an David spent his early career in pharmaceuticals, Associate Professor of Physiology at the initially with the Wellcome Foundation in the Karolinska Institute, a medical doctor qualified UK.
He subsequently spent nine years in the in anaesthesiology and intensive care, and consumer goods sector working for Este a doctor of dental surgery.
He has long been Lauder in New York and Timberland as Senior active in both basic and clinical research Vice-President Global Supply Chain.
In 2003, resulting in over 60 original publications in he returned to the pharmaceutical sector and peer-reviewed journals and book chapters.
joined Novartis and was based in Switzerland.
05 Christer Khler 08 Lynn Tetrault Interim Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources Discovery Research and Corporate Affairs Christer was appointed to his current role in Lynn was appointed Executive Vice-President, November.
He joined Astra in 1979 and held Human Resources and Corporate Affairs a number of R&D positions before joining in 2007 having already been appointed Hoffmann-La Roche in Basel, Switzerland Vice-President Corporate Affairs.
She had in 1992 as Global Head CNS Discovery.
previously been Vice-President of Human He returned to Astra Arcus and became Resources for Global Drug Development and Global Vice-President and Head of CNS & was Vice-President of Human Resources for Pain Research in 1999 and has since been a the US subsidiary of AstraZeneca following member of the global R&D leadership team.
the merger between Astra and Zeneca.
Christer trained at the University of Bergen Lynn started her career in private law practice Medical School where he also obtained his where she specialised in general corporate PhD.
He conducted postdoctoral studies in and healthcare law.
She joined Astra USA in Lausanne, Switzerland and the Salk Institute, 1993 as Associate General Counsel in the San Diego US.
He became adjunct companys legal department.
Professor of Neurobiology at the University of Bergen in 1984.
He has published over Lynn received her bachelors degree from 150 scientific papers in different areas of Princeton University and her law degree neuroscience and pharmacology.
from the University of Virginia Law School.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 92 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance Reserved matters and Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2009 delegation of authority Number of meetings attended number of meetings Director was eligible to attend in 2009 The Board maintains and regularly reviews Nomination and Audit Remuneration Governance a full list of matters and decisions that are Name Board Committee Committee Committee reserved to, and can only be approved by, Bo Angelin 8 8 the Board.
These include the appointment, David Brennan 8 8 termination and remuneration of any Director: John Buchanan 5 8 3 4 3 6 the annual budget: any item of fixed capital Jean-Philippe Courtois 7 8 4 4 expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition Jane Henney 7 8 3 4 2 2 or disposal of an investment or business Michele Hooper 8 8 4 4 2 2 which exceeds $150 million: raising of capital Simon Lowth 8 8 or loans by the Company subject to certain Rudy Markham 7 8 4 4 exceptions : any guarantee in respect of any 1 Hkan Mogren 1 2 0 1 borrowing of the Company: and allotting 2 John Patterson 1 1 shares of the Company.
The matters that Nancy Rothwell 6 8 6 6 have not been expressly reserved to the Louis Schweitzer 8 8 6 6 2 2 Board are either delegated by the Board John Varley 8 8 6 6 2 2 to its committees or to the CEO.
Marcus Wallenberg 6 8 1 Hkan Mogren retired from the Board on 30 April 2009.
The CEO is responsible to the Board for the 2 John Patterson retired from the Board on 31 March 2009. management, development and performance of the Groups business in relation to those matters in respect of which he has been The roles of the Board, the Boards In 2010, the R&D Executive Committee will be delegated authority from the Board.
committees, the Chairman, the CEO and the replaced by the Portfolio Investment Board, In exercising his authority, the CEO acts SET are documented, as are the Boards which will be chaired by the CEO, and will with the primary aim of enhancing long-term delegated authorities and reserved powers, include the CFO, the Executive Vice-President, shareholder value and within the framework the means of operation of the business and Development, the Executive Vice-President, of the Groups policies and routine reporting the roles of corporate functions.
Commercial Operations and other members requirements.
The Portfolio R&D Executive Committee Investment Board will be accountable for all Although the CEO retains full responsibility The R&D Executive Committee oversees and R&D investments within the Group and will be for the authority delegated to him by the prioritises the portfolio of both small molecule charged with delivering a pipeline of products Board, the CEO has established and chairs and biological discovery and development capable of generating attractive returns on the SET pictured in the Board of Directors projects across the Group whether invested capital and driving shareholder value.
at 31 December section from page 88, which originating from our own R&D activities or is the vehicle through which he exercises from external sources.
On an annual basis Operation of the Board certain of that authority in respect of the it takes a view across all Therapy Areas and The Board is responsible for the Groups Groups business.
The SET normally meets makes decisions based on unmet medical corporate governance, sets the Groups once a month to consider and decide major need, commercial and scientific opportunity, strategy and policies, has overall responsibility business issues.
Typically, it also reviews, in competitive position and capability mix.
It is for the oversight of risk and also monitors advance of submission to the Board, those also charged with overseeing a portfolio progress towards meeting its objectives matters that are to be submitted to the Board review process intended to ensure that and annual plans.
The Board discharges for review and decision.
internal and external opportunities are these responsibilities through a programme reviewed using the same criteria and that of meetings that includes a formal, annual In November, Jan Lundberg, Executive there is a clear externalisation strategy strategy review.
The Board also assesses Vice-President, Discovery Research resigned aligned with the disease area strategies.
whether or not and to what extent its to take up a position at another company.
obligations to the Companys shareholders He left the Company on 31 December.
During 2009 the R&D Executive Committee and others are understood and met.
On 13 November, Christer Khler was comprised the Interim Executive ViceThis includes regular reviews of the appointed Interim Executive Vice-President, President, Discovery Research: the Executive Groups financial performance and critical Discovery Research.
Vice-President, Development: the Executive business issues.
Vice-President, Research and Development, Bruno Angelici completed his role as MedImmune: the Executive Vice-President, In the view of the Board, at least half of the Executive Vice-President, International Clinical Research and Chief Medical Officer, Board are, for the purposes of the Combined Sales and Marketing Organisation on MedImmune: the Chief Executive Officer, Code and the corporate governance listing 31 December and will leave the Company in North America President, MedImmune standards of the NYSE Listing Standards, 2010 after nine years service as a member Executive Vice-President, Commercial independent Non-Executive Directors.
of the SET and 20 years with the Company Operations: the Senior Vice-President, in total.
With effect from 1 January 2010, Strategic Planning and Business Development: Prior to the publication of this Annual Report, Tony Zook was appointed to the newlythe Vice-President, R&D Finance: and the the Board conducted the annual evaluation created role of Executive Vice-President, Vice-President, Development Projects.
of its own performance and that of its Commercial Operations.
In this role, he will committees.
This was carried out internally, have responsibility for worldwide sales and using a series of web-based questionnaires marketing activities.
that covered a range of topics, including the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance 93 Corporate Governance nature and level of the Boards interaction with Board Committee membership Nomination and the Groups management: the quality, Audit Remuneration Governance Science 1 quantity and scope of information which Name Committee Committee Committee Committee Independent flows to the Board from management, and Bo Angelin x x x the way in which it flows: the content of and David Brennan x x x x presentations to Board meetings: the John Buchanan Chair x x composition of the Board: the practical Jean-Philippe Courtois x x x arrangements for the work of the Board: Jane Henney x 2 and the work and operation of the Boards Michele Hooper x x committees.
Overall, it was concluded that Simon Lowth x x x x the Board and its committees were operating Rudy Markham x x x 3 in an effective and constructive manner.
Hkan Mogren x x x x 4 John Patterson x x x As part of the assessment process, each Nancy Rothwell x x Chair 5 Non-Executive Director received feedback Louis Schweitzer x Chair x about his or her individual performance.
John Varley x Chair x The Non-Executive Directors reviewed the Marcus Wallenberg x x x x x performance of the CEO and CFO in their 1 As determined by the Board for Combined Code purposes.
In addition, the Board, under the 2 Michele Hooper is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
3 chairmanship of the senior independent Hkan Mogren retired from the Board on 30 April 2009.
4 John Patterson retired from the Board on 31 March 2009.
Non-Executive Director, reviewed the 5 Louis Schweitzer was considered independent by the Board upon his appointment as Chairman: in accordance performance of the Chairman in his absence.
with the Combined Code, the test of independence is not appropriate to the Chairman after his appointment.
Each Director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
September Board meeting and the strategy In January 2010, on his appointment as Board matters day, which were held in Sdertlje, Sweden, Non-Executive Chairman of Volvo AB, As part of the business of each meeting all of the meetings were held in London, UK the Chairman consulted the Company and of the Board, the CEO typically submits or by telephone.
The Board is currently considered this new commitment against his a progress report on each key business scheduled to meet six times and hold a ability to continue to commit sufficient time area, giving details of progress against the strategy review day in 2010, and will meet at to the Company: it is not anticipated that his goals the Board has approved and their such other times as may be required to availability for the Company will be reduced.
To ensure that the Board has good conduct business.
visibility of the key operating decisions of Directors the business, members of the SET routinely On those occasions when a Board or Board In accordance with Article 65 of the Articles, attend Board meetings on a rotational basis Committee member was unavoidably absent all Directors retire at each AGM and may offer and the Board regularly meets and consults from a meeting, for example through illness themselves for re-election by shareholders.
other senior employees throughout the year.
Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at or where a meeting clashed with his her The Board also receives accounting and existing commitments, he she still received the AGM in April 2010.
The Notice of AGM other management information about the and reviewed the papers for the meeting and will give details of those Directors presenting Groups resources, presentations from provided verbal or written input ahead of the themselves for re-election.
The Board reviews internal and external speakers on legal, annually the status of succession to senior meeting, typically through the Chairman governance and regulatory developments and of the Board or the Chairman of the Board positions, including those at Board level, external perspectives.
At the end of Board Committee, so that his her views were made and ensures it has regular contact with, and meetings, the Non-Executive Directors usually known and considered at the meeting.
meet without the Executive Directors present, to review and discuss any matters that have In addition, given the nature of the business During 2009: arisen during the meeting and or such other to be conducted, some Board meetings matters as may appear to the Non-Executive were convened at short notice, which made John Patterson, Executive Director, Directors to be relevant in properly discharging Development retired from the Board it difficult for some Directors to attend due to their duty to act independently.
Hkan Mogren, Non-Executive Deputy The Company Secretary is responsible to As well as their work in relation to formal Chairman, retired from the Board on the Chairman for ensuring that all Board 30 April 2009.
Board and Board Committee meetings, the and Board Committee meetings are properly Non-Executive Directors also continued to conducted, that the Directors receive commit time throughout the year to meetings For information relating to the appointment appropriate information prior to meetings to and telephone calls with various levels of process for new Directors see the Nomination enable them to make an effective contribution, and Governance Committee section from executive management, visits to AstraZenecas and that governance requirements are sites throughout the world and, for new page 95. considered and implemented.
Non-Executive Directors, induction sessions, meetings and site visits.
In 2009, for example, The Board held six scheduled and two ad various Non-Executive Directors made hoc meetings in 2009.
It also held a strategy individual visits to AstraZenecas sites in review day, which was attended by all the the UK, Sweden, the US, Canada, China, SET members.
With the exception of the Japan and Vietnam.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 94 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance Newly appointed Directors are provided with 2009, the Company submitted the required the independence of the external auditor is comprehensive documentation, setting out annual written affirmation to the NYSE not impaired.
The policies and procedures their obligations and duties as Directors.
confirming its full compliance with those cover three categories of work audit They also typically attend tailored induction standards.
For the purposes of the Combined services, audit-related services and tax programmes that take account of their Code, the Board remains satisfied that at services.
The policies define the type of work individual skills and experience.
To develop least one member of the Audit Committee that falls within each of these categories an understanding of major shareholders views has recent and relevant financial experience.
and the non-audit services that the external about the Company, the Non-Executive At its meeting in December 2009, the Board auditor is prohibited from performing under Directors together with the rest of the Board determined that Michele Hooper and Rudy the rules of the SEC and other relevant UK regularly receive reports and presentations Markham are audit committee financial and US professional and regulatory from the Companys brokers and meet experts for the purposes of the Sarbanesrequirements.
The pre-approval procedures with senior managers throughout the year.
The Deputy Company Secretary permit certain audit, audit-related and tax Moreover, the Directors actively encourage acts as secretary to this committee.
services to be performed by the external shareholders to attend the AGM and ask auditor during the year, subject to fee limits questions.
The core terms of reference of the Audit agreed with the Audit Committee in advance.
Committee continue to include reviewing The CFO supported by the Senior ViceThe Company maintained directors and and reporting to the Board on: President, Group Finance monitors the officers liability insurance cover throughout status of all services being provided by the 2009.
The Directors are also able to obtain Matters relating to the audit plans of external auditor.
The procedures also deal independent legal advice at the expense of the external auditor and GIA as well with placing non-audit work out for tender, the Company, as necessary, in their capacity as oversight of the work of the Global where appropriate.
Authority to approve as Directors.
work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits The Groups overall framework for internal is delegated to the Chairman of the Audit The Company has entered into a deed of control over financial reporting and for Committee in the first instance.
A standing indemnity in favour of each Board member other internal controls and processes.
agenda item at Audit Committee meetings since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are The Groups overall framework for risk covers the operation of the pre-approval still in force and provide that the Company management, particularly financial risks.
procedures and regular reports are provided shall indemnify the Directors to the fullest The accounting policies and practices of to the full Audit Committee.
extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Group.
in respect of all losses arising out of, or in The annual and quarterly financial The Audit Committees terms of reference connection with, the execution of their powers, reporting carried out by the Group.
are available on our website, astrazeneca.
duties and responsibilities, as Directors of com and on request from the Company the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee is responsible for Secretary.
This is in line with current market practice notifying the Board of any significant concerns and helps the Company attract and retain of the external auditor or the Vice-President, The Audit Committee held four scheduled high-quality, skilled Directors.
Group Internal Audit GIA arising from their meetings in 2009.
The individual attendance audit work, any matters that may materially record of members of the Audit Committee is Operation of Board Committees affect or impair the independence of the set out in the Board and Committee meeting The Board has delegated certain external auditor, any significant deficiencies or attendance in 2009 table on page 92. responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, material weaknesses in the design or operation Nomination and Governance, and Science of the Groups internal control over financial Following each Audit Committee meeting, Committees.
The Board provides adequate reporting or other internal controls, and any the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the resources to enable each committee to serious issues of non-compliance.
senior independent Non-Executive Director undertake its duties.
Further details of the in the absence of the Chairman of the Audit role, membership and terms of reference for The Audit Committee oversees the Committee reported to the Board on the each committee are set out below.
In addition establishment, implementation and principal matters covered at the meeting and to the standing committees of the Board, there maintenance of the Code of Conduct and minutes of the meetings were circulated to may from time to time be constituted ad hoc other related policies.
It has established all Board members.
committees for specific projects or tasks.
In procedures for the receipt and handling of these cases, the scope and responsibilities complaints concerning accounting or audit During 2009, members of the Audit of the committee is documented.
It recommends to the Board the Committee met individual managers or appointment of the external auditor, subject to groups of managers on a number of Audit Committee the approval of the Companys shareholders occasions, which helped the members The current members of the Audit Committee at a general meeting.
Shareholders in a gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to are John Buchanan Audit Committee general meeting authorise the Directors to the Audit Committees work and provided Chairman, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper fix the remuneration of the external auditor.
an opportunity to discuss specific areas senior independent Non-Executive Director, The Audit Committee reviews and approves of interest.
Jean-Philippe Courtois and Rudy Markham.
the appointment and any dismissal of the They are all Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, in line with its normal practice, The Board considers each member to be the Audit Committee also held a number independent under the Combined Code The Audit Committee maintains policies and of private meetings, without management and under the general guidance and specific procedures for the pre-approval of all audit present, with the Vice-President, GIA, the criteria of the Listing Standards concerning services and permitted non-audit services Global Compliance Officer and the lead the composition of audit committees undertaken by the external auditor, the partners from the Companys external audit applicable to non-US companies.
In April principal purpose of which is to ensure that firm.
The purpose of these meetings was to AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance 95 Corporate Governance facilitate free and open discussions between The amount of audit and non-audit fees controls and procedures required by Item the Audit Committee members and those of the external auditor throughout 2009.
15 a of Form 20-F at 31 December 2009. individuals, separately from the main sessions The Audit Committee was satisfied Based on their evaluation, the CEO and of the Audit Committee, which were attended throughout the year that the objectivity the CFO concluded that, as at that date, by the CFO and the Senior Vice-President, and independence of the external auditor the Group maintains an effective system of Group Finance.
were not in any way impaired by the disclosure controls and procedures.
nature of the non-audit work undertaken During 2009 and January 2010, the business by the external auditor during the year, the There was no change in the Groups considered and discussed by the Audit level of non-audit fees charged for such internal control over financial reporting Committee included the matters referred work or any other facts or circumstances.
that occurred during the period covered by to below: Further information about the audit and this Annual Report that has materially non-audit fees for the year is disclosed in affected, or is reasonably likely to materially The Groups financial disclosures were Note 27 to the Financial Statements on affect, the Groups internal control over reviewed and various accounting page 185. financial reporting.
A review and assessment of the Audit Reports were received from the external Committees performance which The Audit Committee is currently scheduled auditor concerning its audit of the Financial concluded that such performance to meet four times in 2010 and will meet at Statements of the Group and from was satisfactory.
such other times as may be required.
management, GIA, Global Compliance and the external auditor on the effectiveness of In line with best practice, the Group will Remuneration Committee the Groups system of internal controls periodically consider how the audit The principal role of the Remuneration and, in particular, its internal control over requirements of the Group are best served Committee continues to be to consider, financial reporting.
This included review and in the context of business need and the on behalf of the Board, the remuneration discussion of the results of the Groups prevailing external environment and, against including pension rights and compensation continuous assurance and annual letter the background of this review, will from time payments of Executive Directors, the of assurance processes described further to time undertake a formal tendering Chairman and senior executives.
More below in the UK corporate governance programme with audit firms of appropriate information is set out in the Directors requirements section from page 96.
Following discussions at Remuneration Report from page 101.
Audit Committee also reviewed quarterly a meeting in January 2010, the Audit activity reports of audit work carried out Committee unanimously recommended to the Nomination and Governance Committee by GIA and the status of follow-up actions Board that a resolution for the re-appointment The Nomination and Governance Committees with management as well as reports from of KPMG as the Companys external auditor core role continues to be after appropriate the Global Compliance function.
be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in consultation with the Chairman and the The systems and processes that April 2010.
Based on its experience of CEO to recommend to the Board any new management has developed pertaining working with external auditors, the Audit appointments of Directors.
Any decisions to risk identification, classification Committee believes that the quality of the relating to the appointment of Directors are and mitigation.
interaction with and level of service received made by the entire Board based on the merits Continuing work to comply with the from KPMG were key factors supporting this of the candidates and the relevance of their applicable provisions of the .
The Audit Committee background and experience, measured Oxley Act.
In particular, the Audit was also satisfied that, notwithstanding the against objective criteria, with care taken Committee regularly reviewed the status length of tenure of KPMG, KPMG met the to ensure that appointees have enough time of compliance with the programme of independence criteria under the relevant to devote to the job.
The Nomination and internal controls over financial reporting statutory, regulatory and ethical standards Governance Committee also advises the implemented pursuant to section 404 of applicable to auditors.
Consistent with Board periodically on significant developments the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: further information current market practice, KPMGs services to in corporate governance and the Companys about this is set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley the Group are provided pursuant to terms of compliance with the Combined Code.
Act section 404 section on page 49. engagement which are reviewed by the Audit Data about calls made by employees via Committee.
These terms of engagement do During 2009, the members of the Nomination the AZethics telephone lines and other not include any contractual obligations under and Governance Committee were Louis routes regarding potential breaches of which the Directors would be prevented from Schweitzer Nomination and Governance the Code of Conduct together with the appointing a different audit firm were they Committee Chairman, Hkan Mogren until results of enquiries into these matters.
to consider this to be in the best interests of his retirement from the Board on 30 April The succession of the Vice-President, GIA.
The Audit Committee, through 2009, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper and Accounting issues relevant to litigation management, continues to maintain contact John Varley.
They are all Non-Executive and taxation matters.
and dialogue with other major audit firms who Directors.
The Board considers all current Reports from the Group Treasury function are familiar with the Groups business for members of the Nomination and and, in particular, the Groups liquidity and succession purposes as required.
This is Governance Committee to be independent cash position and the appropriateness reported to the Audit Committee in order to Louis Schweitzer was considered by of its cash management policies in the ensure a smooth transition from the current the Board to be independent upon his context of the current economic situation.
auditor, should this be necessary.
appointment as Chairman: in accordance Other reports concerning the GIA, with the Combined Code, the test of Global Compliance and Finance At the same meeting, the CEO and the CFO independence is not appropriate in relation functions, including the internal audit plan presented to the Audit Committee their to the Chairman after his appointment.
and progress and plans of the Global conclusions following the evaluation of the The Company Secretary acts as secretary Compliance Officer.
effectiveness of the Groups disclosure to this committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 96 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance The Nomination and Governance Committee Principal corporate Further information on the ways in which we met twice in 2009.
The individual attendance governance requirements manage our business risks is set out in the record of members of the Nomination and UK corporate governance requirements Managing risk section from page 79 and a Governance Committee is set out in the The Board has prepared this Annual Report list of the principal risks and uncertainties is Board and Committee meeting attendance with reference to the Combined Code and set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties in 2009 table on page 92.
During 2009, the related guidance published in June 2008 by section from page 80.
Nomination and Governance Committee the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
It reviewed the knowledge, experience and describes the way in which the Company is During 2009, the Board considered the balance of the Board overall and considered applying all the main and supporting principles independence of each Non-Executive its likely future requirements given the strategic of good governance in the Combined Code Director.
With the exception of Marcus and business objectives of the Group.
The Company has Wallenberg, the Board considers that all of In addition, the Nomination and Governance complied throughout the accounting period the Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Committee received reports about the various and is also continuing to comply with all Louis Schweitzer was considered by corporate governance reviews and proposals of the provisions of the Combined Code.
the Board to be independent upon his that were a feature of 2009, and carefully The Combined Code is publically available appointment as Chairman: in accordance monitored developments and their potential on the FRC website, frc.
with the Combined Code, the test of impact on the Group.
independence is not appropriate in relation The Board has overall responsibility for the to the Chairman after his appointment.
The Nomination and Governance Committees Groups system of internal controls and risk terms of reference are available on our management policies and is also Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as website, astrazeneca.
responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
a Director of Astra in May 1989 and During 2009, the Directors have continued subsequently became a Director of the Science Committee to review the effectiveness of the Groups Company in 1999.
Until September 2005, The Science Committees core role system of controls, risk management and he was a member of the board of directors continues to be to provide assurance to the Groups high-level internal control and the Chief Executive Officer of Investor AB, the Board regarding the quality, integrity arrangements.
These reviews have included which has a 3.55% interest in the issued share and competitiveness of the Companys an assessment of internal controls, and in capital of the Company as at 28 January 2010. science-based R&D activities.
It does not particular, internal, financial, operational and Wallenberg family foundations remain review individual projects.
The Science compliance controls and risk management Investor ABs largest shareholders in terms of Committee, together with external experts, and their effectiveness, supported by votes controlled.
For these reasons, the Board where appropriate, does review important management assurance of the maintenance does not believe that Marcus Wallenberg bioethical issues faced by the Group and of control, reports from GIA, as well as the can be determined independent under the assists in the formulation of, and agrees on external auditor on matters identified in the Combined Code.
However, the Board believes behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in course of its statutory audit work.
The that he has brought, and continues to bring, relation to such issues.
In addition, the system is designed to manage rather than considerable business experience and Science Committee is responsible for eliminate the risk of failure to achieve makes a valuable contribution to the work considering general future trends in medical business objectives and can only provide of the Board.
science and technology, and any new areas reasonable not necessarily absolute of science or medicine in which the Group assurance of effective operation and The Board has also considered, in particular, may be interested.
compliance with laws and regulations.
the position of Michele Hooper who joined the board of UnitedHealth Group as a During 2009, the members of the Science Underpinning these reviews is an annual letter Non-Executive Director in 2007.
The Boards Committee, all of whom have a knowledge of, of assurance process by which responsible approval of this appointment was conditional or an interest in, life sciences, were Nancy managers confirm the adequacy of their upon Michele Hooper resigning from the Rothwell Science Committee Chairman, systems of internal financial and non-financial board of UnitedHealth Group in the event Jane Henney, Bo Angelin, all Non-Executive controls, their compliance with Group policies of a conflict or non-independence.
It is Directors, and Jan Lundberg until his and relevant laws and regulations including the Boards view that Michele Hooper is resignation in November, John Patterson the industrys regulatory requirements, independent and that she discharges her until his retirement from the Board on and that they have reported any control duties in a properly independent manner, 31 March 2009, Anders Ekblom and weaknesses through the Groups continuous constructively and appropriately challenging Christer Khler from his appointment as assurance process.
the Executive Directors and the Board.
Interim Executive Vice-President, Discovery Research in November.
The Vice-President, The internal control framework has been Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director Business Performance and Continuous in operation for the whole of the year under of AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Improvement, R&D also attends all meetings review and continues to operate up to the CIGNA Corporation, both of which are and acts as secretary to this committee.
date of the approval of this Annual Report.
customers of the Group in the US.
The Board The Directors believe that the Group maintains has considered these relationships and The Science Committee met twice in 2009. an effective, embedded system of internal concluded that they did not compromise Its remit is available on the Companys controls and complies with the Turnbull her independence.
Report guidance and, in the view of the Directors, no significant failings have been identified in the system.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance 97 Corporate Governance The position of senior independent Noninternal control.
The Company has complied AZethics telephone lines and the new global Executive Director of the Company was with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley website, AZethics.
Anyone who raises established in 2002.
Michele Hooper who Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
The a possible breach in good faith will be was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Board continues to believe that the Group supported by management and will not be in 2003 became the Companys senior has a sound corporate governance subject to retaliation, which would itself be independent Non-Executive Director in framework, good processes for the accurate considered a serious violation of the Code of April 2007. and timely reporting of its financial position Conduct.
We review all alleged compliance and results of operations and an effective breaches and concerns, and we investigate At the AGM in 2008, a resolution was and robust system of internal controls.
The and report on them to the Audit Committee, passed to amend the Articles to enable the Company has established a Disclosure as appropriate.
Directors to authorise any situation in which Committee, further details of which can be a Director has an interest that conflicts or found in the Disclosure Policy and Disclosure During 2009, 289 reports of alleged has the potential to conflict with the Committee section on page 98. compliance breaches or other ethical concerns Companys interests and which would were made via the telephone helplines, otherwise be a breach of the Directors duty, The Directors assessment of the AZethics.
com website or Global Compliance under section 175 of the Companies Act effectiveness of the internal control over e-mail or postal addresses described in the 2006.
The Board has a formal system in financial reporting is set out in the Directors Code of Conduct.
The number of reports place for Directors to declare such situations Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal via the equivalent channels in 2008 was 206. to be considered for authorisation by those Control over Financial Reporting section in We believe that the increase in the number Directors who have no interest in the matter the Financial Statements on page 122. of reports via these channels is due, in part, being considered.
In deciding whether to to our efforts to enhance these reporting authorise a situation, the non-conflicted The Company must disclose any significant channels and, in part, to an increased Directors must act in the way they consider, ways in which its corporate governance awareness of the Code of Conduct and the in good faith, would be most likely to practices differ from those followed by US accompanying training and communications.
promote the success of the Company, and companies under the Listing Standards.
In they may impose limits or conditions when addition, the Company must comply fully As with the Code of Conduct, our Global giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if with the provisions of the Listing Standards Policies apply to all members of the Group.
they think this is appropriate.
Situations relating to the composition, responsibilities Like the Code of Conduct, the Global considered by the Board and authorisations and operation of audit committees.
These Policies provide clear and comprehensive given are recorded in the Board minutes and provisions incorporate the rules concerning guidance, in plain language, to all managers in a register of conflicts maintained by the audit committees implemented by the SEC and employees as to their accountabilities in Company Secretary and reviewed annually under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
key ethical, compliance and corporate by the Board.
The Board considers that this responsibility risk areas.
system continues to operate effectively.
The Company has reviewed the corporate governance practices required to be followed A critical element of the effectiveness of The disclosures that fulfil the requirements of by US companies under the Listing Standards the Code of Conduct and Global Policies a corporate governance statement under and its corporate governance practices are is to deliver clear training and education to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can generally consistent with those standards.
employees on an ongoing basis.
be found in this Corporate Governance section of the Directors Report and in other Code of Conduct A Group Finance Code of Conduct parts of this Annual Report as listed below, The Code of Conduct, which is available on complements the Code of Conduct.
It applies each of which is incorporated into this our website, astrazeneca.
com, applies to to the CEO, the CFO, the Groups principal Corporate Governance section by reference: all Directors, officers, full-time, part-time, accounting officers including key Finance contractor and temporary staff at all levels in staff in major overseas subsidiaries and all Significant holders of the Companys every country where we operate.
It has been Finance function employees, and it reinforces shares contained in the Shareholder translated into over 40 languages and every the importance of the integrity of the Groups Information section from page 199. employee has a copy in his her local Financial Statements, of the reliability of the Articles contained in the Corporate language.
It is designed to provide clear accounting records on which they are based Information section on page 204. direction as to how the Companys and of the robustness of the relevant controls Amendments to the Companys Articles commitment to honesty and integrity is to be and processes.
contained in the Corporate Information translated into consistent actions across all section on page 204. areas of the business.
Compliance with the Compliance and Group Internal Audit Code of Conduct and with the standards The role of the Global Compliance function is US corporate governance requirements detailed by the Group in support of it is to help embed a culture of ethics and integrity The Companys ADSs are traded on the mandatory.
The same applies to the laws in the Group.
Global Compliance works NYSE and, accordingly, the Company is and regulations of the countries in which we closely with GIA, with whom it provides joint subject to the reporting and other work and do business, as well as applicable assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
requirements of the SEC applicable to national and international codes, and the The key priorities for our Global Compliance foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the Group seeks to operate to the highest of function for 2009 2010 are closely aligned with Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to these standards.
During 2010, include in their annual report on Form 20-F the Global Compliance function will continue filed with the SEC, a report by management The Code of Conduct also includes to focus on ensuring the delivery of an stating its responsibility for establishing information on how to report possible aligned approach to compliance that internal control over financial reporting and violations of the Code of Conduct through addresses key risk areas across the business.
to assess annually the effectiveness of such the appropriate channels, including the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 98 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance During 2009, the Global Compliance Disclosure Policy and Branches and countries in which the Committee met quarterly.
The remit of the Disclosure Committee Group conducts business committee is to oversee and co-ordinate The Groups Disclosure Policy provides a In accordance with the Companies Act implementation of an effective global framework for the handling and disclosure of 2006, we disclose below the members compliance programme and evaluate its inside information and other information of of the Group that have representative or effectiveness.
It does this by assessing interest to shareholders and the investment scientific branches offices outside the UK: key compliance risks within and across community.
It also defines the role of the the SET functions: working with GIA to Disclosure Committee.
During 2009, the AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria, ensure co-ordination of compliance auditing members of the Disclosure Committee were: Angola, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and and monitoring: reviewing results: and the CFO: the Executive Vice-President, Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, Costa Rica, addressing significant policy violations and Development: the General Counsel: the Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, Ghana scientific identifying trends.
Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the office, Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya Vice-President, Investor Relations: and the scientific office, Macedonia, Romania, Global Compliance provides direct assurance Senior Vice-President, Group Finance.
Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia to the Audit Committee on matters concerning The Deputy Company Secretary acts as and Ukraine.
compliance issues, with a particular focus secretary to this committee.
The Disclosure AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, on compliance with IFPMA, EFPIA and Latvia, Saudi Arabia scientific office Committee meets regularly to assist and PhRMA codes.
Complementing this, GIA inform the decisions of the CEO concerning and Slovakia.
carries out a range of audits that include inside information and its disclosure.
AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: compliance-related audits and reviews of Periodically, it reviews the Groups disclosure Estonia, Lithuania, Romania and the the assurance activities of other Company United Arab Emirates.
controls and procedures and its own assurance functions.
The results from these operation as part of work carried out to AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: activities are reported to the Audit Committee.
enable management and the Board to Cambodia and Vietnam.
assure themselves that appropriate GIA is an independent appraisal function that Distributions to shareholders and processes are operating for the Companys derives its authority from the Board through planned disclosures, such as its quarterly dividends for 2009 the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to results announcements and scheduled The Companys stated distribution policy provide reasonable and objective assurance investor relations events.
In addition, the comprises both a regular cash dividend and to the Directors about the adequacy and a share re-purchase component, further Disclosure Committee members are effectiveness of the Groups risk members of the steering group that reviews details of which are set out in the Capitalisation management and control framework and the drafts of, and the process for preparing, and shareholder return section in the Financial the internal controls over key business risks, this Annual Report.
Review on page 42 and Notes 20 and 21 including financial controls and compliance to the Financial Statements from pages 153 with laws, regulations and policies.
Disclosure of information to auditors and 154, respectively.
The Directors who held office at the date of GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities approval of this Directors Report confirm The Companys dividends for 2009 of $2.30 set down in its charter by reviewing: 141.4 pence, SEK 16.84 per Ordinary Share that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend The processes for ensuring that key Companys auditors are unaware: and each payment to shareholders of $3,336 million.
business risks are effectively managed.
Director has taken all the steps that he she The financial and operational controls Two of the Groups employee share trusts, ought to have taken as a Director to make that help to ensure that the Groups himself herself aware of any relevant audit AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited and assets are properly safeguarded from information and to establish that the AstraZeneca Quest Limited, waive their right losses, including fraud.
Companys auditors are aware of that to a dividend on the Ordinary Shares that they The controls that help to ensure the hold and instead receive a nominal dividend.
reliability and integrity of management information systems.
Other matters A shareholders resolution was passed at The processes for ensuring compliance Subsidiaries and principal activities the 2009 AGM authorising the Company to with policies and procedures, external The Company is the holding company for a purchase its own shares.
However, no share legislation and regulation.
group of subsidiaries whose principal activities re-purchases took place in 2009.
The On an ad hoc basis, whether value for are described in this Directors Report.
Company will seek a renewal of its current money is obtained in terms of efficient Principal subsidiaries and their locations are permission from shareholders to purchase use of the Groups resources.
given in the Principal Subsidiaries section in its own shares at the AGM on 29 April 2010. the Financial Statements on page 186.
GIA acts as a source of constructive advice During the Companys share re-purchase and best practice, assisting senior programmes that operated between 1999 management to improve governance, and 2008, a total of 376.3 million Ordinary control, compliance and risk management.
Shares were re-purchased, and subsequently cancelled, at an average price of 2661 pence per share for a consideration, including expenses, of $18,099 million.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance 99 Corporate Governance Going concern accounting basis Directors shareholdings The Company has frequent discussions Information on the business environment The Articles require each Director to be the with institutional shareholders on a range in which the Group operates, including the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the of issues affecting its performance.
These factors underpinning the industrys future Company with an aggregate nominal value of include individual meetings with some of the growth prospects, are included in the $125 which currently represent at least 500 Companys largest institutional shareholders Business Environment section from page 12. shares.
Such holding must be obtained to seek their views and any concerns can Details of the product portfolio of the Group, within two months of the date of the Directors be reported to the Board.
In addition, the our approach to product development and appointment.
At 31 December 2009, all of Company responds to individual ad hoc a summary of our development pipeline are the Directors complied with this requirement requests for discussions from institutional included in the Research and Development and full details of each Directors interests in shareholders and analysts.
The Groups section from page 22.
Additional information shares of the Company are set out in the Investor Relations department acts as a main on our Therapy Areas and a more detailed Directors interests in shares section on page point of contact for investors throughout the table of our development pipeline is included 115.
Information about the shareholding year.
The senior independent Non-Executive in the Therapy Area Review from page 55. expectations of the Remuneration Committee Director is also available to shareholders if in respect of Executive Directors and SET they have concerns that contact through the The financial position of the Group, its cash members and the Board in respect of normal channels of Chairman, CEO, CFO and flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Non-Executive Directors is also set out in the or the Group Investor Relations department are described in the Financial Review.
In Directors Remuneration Report on pages has failed to resolve, or in relation to which addition, Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial 108 and 110, respectively.
All shareholders, Statements from pages 144 and 146, including private investors, have an opportunity respectively, include the Groups objectives, Shareholder communications at the AGM to put questions to members policies and processes for managing its In its financial and business reporting to of the Board on matters relating to the capital, its financial risk management shareholders and other interested parties Groups operation and performance.
Formal objectives, details of its financial instruments by means of quarterly, half-year and full-year notification of the AGM is sent to shareholders and hedging activities and its exposures to reports, the Board aims to present a balanced at least one month in advance.
The Chairmen credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further details and understandable assessment of the of the Boards committees ordinarily attend of the Groups cash balances and borrowings Groups financial position and prospects.
the AGM to answer questions raised by are included in Notes 13 and 14 to the shareholders.
In line with the Combined Code, Financial Statements from pages 143 The Company makes available to shareholders details of proxy voting by shareholders, and 144, respectively.
information about the Company through including votes withheld, are given at the a range of media, including a fully integrated AGM and are placed on our website The Group has considerable financial html corporate website, astrazeneca.
At 31 December 2009, containing a wide range of information of the Group had $12.3 billion in financial interest to institutional and private investors.
Political donations resources cash balances of $9.9 billion and The Company considers its website to be Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries committed undrawn bank facilities of $4.25 an important means of communication made any EU political donations or incurred billion, with $1.9 billion of debt due within one with its shareholders.
The Company has any EU political expenditure in 2009 and they year.
The Groups revenues are largely derived been authorised by shareholders to place do not intend to do so in the future in respect from sales of products which are covered by shareholder communications such as the of which shareholder authority is required, or patents and for which, in the short term at Notice of AGM and this Annual Report on for which disclosure in this Annual Report is least, demand is relatively unaffected by its corporate website in lieu of sending paper required, under the Companies Act 2006. changes in the global economy.
In addition, copies to shareholders unless specifically the Group has a wide diversity of customers requested by shareholders.
Whilst recognising However, to enable the Company and its and suppliers across different geographic and respecting the fact that some of our subsidiaries to continue to support interest areas.
As a consequence, the Directors stakeholders may have different preferences groups or lobbying organisations concerned believe that the Group is well placed to regarding the manner in which they receive with the review of government policy or law manage its business risks successfully despite information about the Company, we will reform without inadvertently breaching the the current uncertain economic outlook.
continue to promote the benefits of Companies Act 2006, which defines political electronic communication given the donations and other political expenditure in After making enquiries, the Directors have advantages that this has over traditional broad terms, a resolution will be put to a reasonable expectation that the Group paper-based communications both in terms shareholders at the 2010 AGM, similar to has adequate resources to continue in of the configurability and accessibility of that passed at the AGM on 30 April 2009, to operational existence for the foreseeable the information that is provided and the authorise the Company and its subsidiaries future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt consequent cost savings and reduction to make: i donations to political parties: ii the going concern basis in preparing this in environmental impact associated with donations to political organisations other Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
reduced printing and distribution costs.
than political parties: and iii incur political expenditure, up to an aggregate limit Changes in share capital of $250,000.
Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share capital during 2009, including details of the allotment of new shares under the Companys share plans, are given in Note 20 to the Financial Statements from page 153.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 100 Directors Report | Business Organisation and Corporate Governance In 2009, the Groups US legal entities sheet date was equivalent to 56 days average Bureau Veritas made contributions amounting in aggregate purchases 2008: 46 days.
The methodology Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas to $733,687 2008: $815,838 to state for this calculation has been amended in 2009 has provided external assurance on corporate political party committees and to campaign whereby rebates and chargeback accruals, responsibility related information within this committees of various state candidates previously included in this calculation, have Annual Report and of the detailed content of affiliated with the major parties in accordance been removed.
The Company believes that the Responsibility section of our website.
No corporate as these amounts arise typically from our Bureau Veritas has found the information donations were made at the federal level revenue arrangements, principally in the US, provided within this Annual Report to be and all contributions were made only where this methodology more accurately reflects accurate and reliable based on the evidence allowed by US federal and state law.
US time taken on average to repay creditors.
provided and subject to the scope, citizens or individuals holding valid green The comparative calculation for the prior year objectives and limitations defined in the full cards exercised decision-making over is also presented under the new methodology.
The full assurance the contributions and the funds were not A considerable part of the trade creditors statement which contains detailed provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal balance relates to the Merck account in the scope, methodology, overall opinion entity.
Such contributions do not constitute US, which has particularly long contractual and recommendations can be found on political donations or political expenditure for payment terms.
By removing this balance AstraZenecas website, astrazeneca.
com: the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and other items not directly related to trade web page content assured by Bureau Veritas and were made without any involvement of purchases in the US, a more accurate average is marked at the bottom of each page.
persons or entities outside the US.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional Significant agreements The Company has no external trade creditors.
services company that specialises in quality, There are no significant agreements to which health, safety, social and environmental the Company is a party that take effect, alter Annual General Meeting management with a long history of providing or terminate on a change of control of the The Companys AGM will be held on 29 April independent assurance services, and an Company following a takeover bid.
The meeting place will be in London.
annual turnover in 2008 of 2.6 billion.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all registered There are no persons, with whom the holders of Ordinary Shares and, where On behalf of the Board Company has contractual or other requested, to the beneficial holders of shares.
arrangements, who are deemed by the A C N Kemp Directors to be essential to the business External auditor Company Secretary of the Company.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 29 April 2010 for the re-appointment of 28 January 2010 Use of financial instruments KPMG as auditor of the Company.
Notes 15 and 16 to the Financial Statements, from pages 144 and 146 respectively, include The external auditor has undertaken various further information on the Groups use of non-audit work for the Company during 2009. financial instruments.
More information about this work and the audit and non-audit fees paid by the Company Creditor payment policy are set out in Note 27 to the Financial It is not Group policy formally to comply with Statements on page 185.
The external auditor the Confederation of British Industrys code is not engaged by the Company to carry of practice on the prompt payment of out any non-audit work on which it might, suppliers.
It is, however, Group policy in the future, be required to express an audit to agree to appropriate payment terms with opinion.
As explained more fully in the Audit all suppliers when agreeing to the terms Committee section from page 94, the Audit of each transaction, to ensure that those Committee has established pre-approval suppliers are made aware of the terms of policies and procedures for audit and payment and, subject to their compliance, non-audit work permitted to be carried out abide by the terms of payment.
The total by the external auditor and has carefully amount of money owed by the Companys monitored the objectivity and independence subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance of the external auditor throughout 2009.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
