12 Directors Report | Business Environment The challenges Pricing pressure Business Environment The growing demand for healthcare continues to increase pressure on payer budgets.
Whilst payers may recognise the need to reward innovation, they have a duty to spend their limited financial resources wisely.
As a result, cost-containment in healthcare, including AstraZeneca operates in a rapidly Furthermore, the faster-developing economies, containment of pharmaceutical spending, changing business environment such as China, India and Brazil, continue to continues to be a focus.
This is particularly that presents both opportunities and offer new opportunities for the industry to the case as the current global economic challenges.
Although industry revenue supply an expanding number of patients who downturn increases cost pressures on growth is slowing due to continuing can benefit from medicines.
As shown by the healthcare payers and those patients who pressure on healthcare costs figures, Emerging Markets now represent pay directly for all, or a significant proportion, and pricing, as well as increased approximately 85% of the world population of the cost of their medicines.
competition from generic medicines, and 16% of the total pharmaceutical market.
the demand for healthcare that will Pharmaceutical industry growth in Emerging The research-based pharmaceutical industrys drive the industrys future growth Markets was more than triple the rate of challenge is to manage this downward remains strong.
growth in Established Markets in 2009. pressure on the price of its products, whilst continuing to invest in the discovery, Historically, the pharmaceutical industry has Unmet medical need development, manufacture and marketing of been less exposed than other sectors to In most Established Markets, ageing new medicines.
In addition, most of our sales changes in global economic conditions, but populations and certain lifestyle choices drive are generated in highly regulated markets continued constraints on payers impacted the an increased incidence of chronic diseases where governments exert various levels of sector and its prospects in 2009.
However, such as cancer, cardiovascular metabolic and control on price and reimbursement.
the current economic environment also respiratory diseases which require long-term presents opportunities for the sector, such management.
The prevalence of chronic Multiple pricing systems exist across the as strategic alliances with smaller companies disease is also increasing in middle-income globe, which create a complex matrix that seeking funding and development expertise.
countries, and is now beginning to have must be managed to optimise revenues.
Indeed, partnering activity across the an impact in the least developed countries.
This may be further complicated by currency pharmaceutical sector remained strong Many diseases remain under-diagnosed or fluctuations within regions.
The principal during 2009. sub-optimally treated and, as diagnostic aspects of price regulation in our major techniques and treatments improve and markets are described further in the World markets access to medicines widens, the burden of Geographical Review from page 50.
The world pharmaceutical market in 2009 disease is projected to continue increasing was valued at $709 billion, an increase of over the next 20 years.
In addition, the Payers increasingly require that the economic 5% over 2008 at CER maintaining the rate appearance of new medical challenges such as well as therapeutic value of medicines of growth for the period 2007 to 2008. as the H1N1 influenza swine flu pandemic be demonstrated and that this value be As shown in the figure opposite the 2009 potentially adds to the burden.
supported by evidence of real outcomes.
growth rate in North America recovered Meeting these needs across a diverse range from its 2008 decline while the 2009 growth Advances in science and technology of national and local reimbursement systems rate in Other Established Markets fell back Existing medicines will continue to be vital requires significant additional investment from its 2008 level.
On the other hand, in meeting the demand for healthcare, of resources and funds by the industry.
Emerging Markets, in particular Emerging particularly in an increasingly genericised Personalised healthcare PHC offers one Asia Pacific, saw strong double-digit growth.
In addition, innovation resulting from way of increasing the value of medicines to advances in both the understanding of the patients, physicians and payers.
Under PHC In 2009 the top five markets in the world key processes involved in the initiation and the optimal treatment for each individual, remained the US, Japan, France, Germany progression of disease and the application in terms of the choice of medicine and dose, and Italy, with the US representing 42% of of new technologies will be critical to meeting is determined by analysis of the patients global sales 2008: 42%.
Further down current and future unmet medical need.
As biochemical or genetic make-up.
An example the rankings, China moved into sixth we noted last year, the use of large molecules, of this approach is the use of a companion place, displacing the UK to eighth place or biologics, is becoming an increasingly diagnostic test to allow use of Iressa for the behind Spain.
It has been treatment of lung cancer, specifically in those predicted that within the worlds top 100 patients who have an activating mutation Growth drivers pharmaceutical products, 50% of sales will of the endothelial growth factor receptor.
Expanding patient populations come from biologics based on forecasts for The world population has doubled in the last 2014.
This compares with only 28% in 2008 R&D productivity 50 years from three billion to over six billion and 11% in 2000.
With advances in the The research-based pharmaceutical industry and is expected to reach nine billion by 2050. technologies for the design and testing of continues to drive for increased productivity In addition, the number of people who can novel compounds, new opportunities also in R&D to ensure a strong pipeline of access the highest standards of healthcare exist for the use of innovative small molecules commercially viable medicines for launch.
continues to increase, particularly among as new medicines.
Companies have addressed this challenge the elderly, who represent a rising proportion in a variety of ways.
Some have sought to of populations in developed nations.
increase output with limited incremental cost AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
