Directors Report | Financial Review 49 Reviews Payments due by period Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans and other borrowings 2,512 2,769 834 12,209 18,324 Operating leases 132 128 80 131 471 Contracted capital expenditure 739 739 Total 3,383 2,897 914 12,340 19,534 the timing of tax cash flows in relation to In assessing performance, the SET reviews Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 each outcome, however, it is anticipated that financial information on an integrated basis As a consequence of our listing on the NYSE, a number of significant disputes may be for the Group as a whole, substantially in AstraZeneca is required to comply with resolved over the next one to two years.
the form of, and on the same basis as, the those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Included in the provision is an amount of Groups IFRS Financial Statements.
The high applicable to foreign issuers.
Section 404 of interest of $565 million.
upfront cost of discovering and developing the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies new products, coupled with the relatively annually to assess and make public Segmental reporting insignificant and stable unit cost of production, statements about the quality and effectiveness During the year AstraZeneca has adopted means that there is not the clear link that of their internal control over financial reporting.
IFRS 8 exists in many manufacturing businesses requires an entity to report financial and between the revenue generated on an Our approach to the assessment has been to descriptive information about its reportable individual product sale and the associated select key transaction and financial reporting segments.
Reportable segments are cost and hence margin generated on a processes in our largest operating units and a operating segments or aggregations of product.
Consequently, the profitability of number of specialist areas, such as financial operating segments that meet specified individual drugs or classes of drugs is not consolidation and reporting, treasury criteria.
In addressing these criteria, it was operations and taxation, so that, in aggregate, considered a key measure of performance determined that AstraZeneca is engaged in for the business and is not monitored by we have covered a significant proportion of a single business activity of pharmaceuticals the SET.
each of the key line items in our Financial and that the Group does not have multiple Statements.
Each of these operating units and operating segments.
Our specialist areas has ensured that its relevant Resources are allocated on a group-wide biopharmaceuticals business consists of the basis according to need.
In particular, capital processes and controls are documented to discovery and development of new expenditure, in-licensing and R&D resources appropriate standards, taking into account, products, which are then manufactured, are allocated between activities on merit, in particular, the guidance provided by the marketed and sold.
All of these functional SEC.
We have also reviewed the structure based on overall therapeutic considerations activities take place and are managed and strategy under the aegis of the Groups and operation of our entity level control globally on a highly integrated basis.
We do R&D Executive Committee to facilitate a environment.
This refers to the overarching not manage these individual functional group-wide single combined discovery and control environment, including structure areas separately.
of reviews, checks and balances that are development strategy.
The Groups recent acquisitions in the biologics area, MedImmune essential to the management of a wellWe consider that the SET is AstraZenecas and Cambridge Antibody Technology Group controlled business.
chief operating decision-making body plc, have been integrated into the existing as defined by IFRS 8.
The operation of the The Directors have concluded that our internal management structure of AstraZeneca SET is principally driven by the management both for allocation of resources and for the control over financial reporting is effective at of the commercial operations, R&D and purposes of assessment and monitoring of 31 December and the assessment is set out in manufacturing and supply.
As such, although biologics the Directors Responsibilities for, and Report includes Finance, Human Resources and on, Internal Control over Financial Reporting is a relatively new technological area for the General Counsel representation.
Group, it does not operate as a separate section in the Financial Statements on page operating segment.
KPMG has audited the effectiveness of All significant operating decisions are taken our internal control over financial reporting by the SET.
While members of the SET have and, as noted in the Auditors Report on the Off-balance sheet transaction responsibility for implementation of decisions and commitments Financial Statements and on Internal Control in their respective areas, operating decisionWe have no off-balance sheet arrangements over Financial Reporting Sarbanes-Oxley making is at SET-level as a whole.
Where and our derivative activities are nonAct Section 404 on page 123, their report necessary, decisions are implemented is unqualified.
The table above sets out our through cross-functional sub-committees minimum contractual obligations at the that consider the group-wide impact of a year end.
For example, product launch decisions would be initially considered by Other accounting information the SET and, on approval, passed to an New accounting standards appropriate sub-team for implementation.
New IFRS which have been issued both The impacts of being able to develop, adopted and not yet adopted are discussed produce, deliver and commercialise a wide in the Accounting Policies section in the range of pharmaceutical products drive Financial Statements from page 128. the SETs decision-making process.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
