22 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Working with others We recognise that we cannot achieve our strategic goals on our own.
To deliver successful medicines to market we need to work with doctors, patients and other stakeholders to understand what they need and want.
We work with governments and those who pay for healthcare to ensure our products Anders Ekblom represent value for money.
We also look Executive Vice-President, Development to develop new ways of working with others who complement our existing skills, enhance our internal innovation or bring extra value to what we do.
In doing I am passionate about creating a so, we work to ensure that those we work world-class R&D organisation that with meet our high ethical standards.
develops medicines which make a real difference to the health Innovation, value and externalisation of people around the world.
In a world of rapidly advancing science and technology, no pharmaceutical company can rely exclusively on its own resources if it is to stay at the forefront of pharmaceutical innovation.
Through our strategy of externalisation, we seek to expand our product portfolio and geographical presence through, for example, technology licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations Research and Development whether our compounds could become safe and, where appropriate, acquisitions of Strategy and effective medicines of the future.
Our R&D strategy is centred on delivering also focused on integrating our tools and sustained business growth through a databases to develop predictive platforms Accessing products through externalisation continuous flow of new and innovative across R&D.
is a key component of our efforts to both medicines that meet unmet medical need strengthen our pipeline of new products and at prices payers find acceptable.
Our Our capabilities to access opportunities to drive short-term strategic objective is to deliver a flow of new AstraZeneca has had a long history of growth.
Our Strategic Planning and medicines two new molecular entities per successful research leading to innovative, Business Development team works closely year on average.
In line with our ongoing effective and valued medicines.
We recognise with our R&D, Global Marketing and Finance externalisation strategy, we continue to look the need to build on this tradition and this is teams to deliver this.
beyond our own laboratories, and actively reflected in our strategy.
seek acquisitions and alliances with third We have completed over 60 major parties to gain access to the best science As we develop potential medicines through externalisation deals in the last three years as and or technology platforms.
In 2009, we a structured programme of studies, our well as numerous smaller deals to enhance completed three Phase III ready in-licence focus is on ensuring that they are developed and strengthen the portfolio.
Further details of deals 2008: three.
In addition, we have effectively to meet the needs of patients, the current status of a number of the products acquired Novexel completion of the regulators and payers.
We do so by applying concerned can be found in the Therapy Area acquisition is subject to the expiry or the best science to clinical need by designing Review from page 55. termination of the applicable waiting period appropriate programmes that ultimately under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust deliver successful submissions to regulators.
Significant late-stage deals completed in 2009 Improvements Act thus gaining access to two To this end, our cross-functional project and include the in-licence of ceftaroline, a next further compounds: one of which is Phase III product teams bring together all the relevant generation anti-infective, from Forest, and the ready and the other of which is Phase II ready.
skills and experience needed to ensure the in-licence of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 from rapid development of effective new medicines.
Nektar to address opioid-induced constipation.
We are creating a knowledge-driven They also manage the associated risks In December, we also successfully concluded organisation by investing in information and ensure that quality and safety remain a major in-licence agreement with Targacept sources and tools to allow our scientists to fundamental considerations at every stage.
for TC-5214, a late-stage product for major integrate and exploit internal and external depressive disorder, and acquired Novexel knowledge, as well as share this knowledge Our R&D function has access to leading-edge completion of the acquisition is subject to the and enable innovative ways of working across technologies and capabilities such as stem expiry or termination of the applicable waiting the organisation.
This information sharing cells and RNA interference technology which period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino culture is allowing our pre-clinical and clinical support the development of therapeutic Antitrust Improvements Act to further build scientists to work together to select high agents across a range of Therapy Areas.
quality targets and compounds and to Our medicines pipeline spans all modalities design clinical studies to establish quickly with the majority of our late-stage pipeline AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
