32 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities We hosted inspections from many different regulatory authorities in 2009.
All observations are reviewed along with the outcomes of our own internal inspections and improvement actions are put in place as required to ensure ongoing compliance with expectations.
If required, we take action to improve quality and enhance compliance across the organisation.
The knowledge obtained from David Smith the inspections is shared across the Group.
Executive Vice-President, Operations We continue to be actively involved in influencing new product manufacturing As we drive for ever-greater regulations, both at national and international efficiency in producing our levels, through our membership of industry medicines, we work harder to associations primarily in the EU, the US ensure we control the quality and Japan.
Our resources At the end of 2009, we had approximately Supply and manufacturing During 2009, as part of our commitment to 9,500 people at 20 manufacturing sites Core to our continued business success strategic sourcing, we sold our Dunkirk in 16 countries working on the supply of is our ability to provide our customers active pharmaceutical ingredient API facility our products.
with a reliable supply of high quality and entered into a contract manufacture medicines worldwide, when they want agreement with the purchaser for the supply Capital expenditure on supply and them, and to do so in the most costof certain APIs from that site.
As part of our manufacturing facilities totalled approximately 1 1 effective way.
continuous review of our manufacturing $360 million in 2009 2008: $369 million : 1 assets to make sure that they are being 2007: $336 million.
As part of our overall risk Operational excellence used in the most effective way we also management, we carefully consider the timing We seek to maximise the efficiency of our completed the sale of facilities in Caponago, of investment to ensure that secure supply supply chain through a culture of continuous Italy and Porrio, Spain.
We closed our chains are in place for our products.
We focus on what adds value manufacturing site at Destelbergen, Belgium a programme in place to provide appropriate for our customers and patients, and eliminates and announced our intention to exit from the supply capabilities for our new products.
Improvements have delivered plant at North Ryde, Australia.
We recognise significant benefits in recent years, including the impact that these changes can have on In addition to our plant at North Ryde, reduced manufacturing lead times and lower our employees morale and productivity and Australia from which we have announced our stock levels, which both improve our ability the increased risk of industrial action.
We intention to exit, our principal small molecule to respond to customer needs and reduce manage these risks by consulting fully with manufacturing facilities are in the UK Avlon inventory costs.
Changes have also been staff representatives and acting in line with and Macclesfield : Sweden Snckviken and achieved without compromising customer local employment laws.
Our human resources Grtuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, service and quality.
policies and processes are also focused Delaware and Westborough, Massachusetts : on ensuring that the people affected are France Reims : Japan Maihara : China Wuxi We have been applying Lean business treated with respect, sensitivity, fairness and Puerto Rico Canovanas.
Approximately improvement tools and ways of working to and integrity.
This commitment is covered 600 people work in API supply and 8,000 improve the efficiency of our manufacturing in the People section from page 33. in formulation and packaging.
We operate plants for a number of years and have a small number of sites for the manufacture recently started to apply it to the whole Product quality of active ingredients in the UK and Sweden, of our supply chain.
In 2009, we seconded We are committed to delivering assured complemented by efficient use of sourcing.
two Lean experts from Jaguar Land Rover product quality that underpins both the Our principal tablet and capsule formulation to apply their knowledge of efficient car safety and efficacy of our medicines.
sites are in the UK, Sweden, Puerto Rico and manufacturing techniques to our the US, and we also have major formulation pharmaceutical supply chain.
Manufacturing processes for medicines can sites for the global supply of parenteral and be very complex and must observe rigorous or inhalation products in Sweden, France and Our customer focus means our supply chains standards of quality.
change as the needs of our local markets plants and processes are subject to evolve.
In 2009, we established regional inspections by regulatory authorities to ensure With the addition of a seasonal work force to offices.
This included sourcing centres in compliance with prescribed standards support the production of the H1N1 influenza Shanghai, China and Bangalore, India, which which can vary between different regulatory vaccine, approximately 870 people are were created to identify local high quality authorities.
Such authorities have the power employed at our four principal biologics suppliers to support growing market demand.
to require changes and improvements, to halt commercial manufacturing facilities in the We also established a regional packing production and impose conditions that must US Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, strategy to improve our ability to respond be satisfied before production can resume.
Pennsylvania : the UK Speke : and the to customer requirements, retain control Regulatory standards, and therefore Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities in over quality and thereby equip the business manufacturing processes, can also change 1 F igures adjusted to reflect the impact of the for growth in emerging markets.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
