28 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Medicines that patients will want and payers will pay for Sales and marketing life-cycle of a medicine to guide our R&D Customer focus activity and help shape the Therapy Area Our international sales and marketing and marketing strategies.
Early in the organisation is active in over 100 countries.
development of new products, we also We have an extensive network focused consider how best to demonstrate the on growing our business and driving levels value of our medicines to payers.
of commercial excellence to maintain our position among the industry world leaders.
Emerging Markets growth As well as building on our leading positions During the course of 2009, AstraZeneca Tony Zook in North America and Other Established continued to execute its ambitious Chief Executive Officer, North America Markets, such as Japan and Western investment strategy across Emerging Executive Vice-President, Commercial Operations Europe, we continue to increase our strength Markets in large markets such as China, through strategic investment in Emerging Mexico, Brazil and Russia, as well as in Wherever they are in the world, Markets, where GDP growth and changing medium-sized and smaller markets where those who pay for our medicines disease demographics present significant there is significant unmet medical need.
and the patients who use them opportunities.
See the market definitions must remain the focus of everything table on page 206 for more information on In China including Hong Kong, as a result we do.
of its current strategic focus on Big Cities Big Hospitals, AstraZeneca is the second Our Global Marketing function is responsible largest multinational pharmaceutical for developing and leading our global brand company in the prescription market.
It ensures a strong customer focus and commercial direction in the management Our strategy for Emerging Markets is of our pipeline and marketed products.
At an based upon a rapid expansion of the early stage in the medicine discovery process commercial organisation across areas we define what we believe the profile of a where we assess there to be significant medicine needs to be to work most effectively market potential.
In this context we provide in combating a particular disease.
These our country leaders with the autonomy disease target product profiles TPPs are to tailor their strategies to local customer based on the insights we gain through our needs.
These local plans are supported relationships with healthcare professionals, by AstraZenecas global capabilities, one patients and others for whom the medicine of which is a highly disciplined approach must add value, including regulators and to sales force management.
The attitudes and needs of these groups are key drivers of the development To maximise these local opportunities, of the TPPs which are used throughout the AstraZeneca has started to launch a range AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 29 Performance of branded genericised medicines.
These We will continue to explore opportunities medicines, which are within our key areas to work in collaborations at local or regional of therapy expertise, will make our products levels as a model to improve success.
available to more patients and at lower This could either be through getting access 8 price levels than is possible with patentto commercial capabilities, such as the protected medicines.
Eight new products launched collaboration to sell Symbicort with Astellas in India in 2009 in Japan, or to strengthen the portfolio, As an example, to support our new branded such as the collaboration with UCB for generics business in India, we significantly the commercialisation of UCBs Cimzia increased our level of investment, enabling in Brazil.
the launch of eight new products of which An effective sales force five were launched in the second half of In the majority of markets, we sell through More information on our collaborations can 2009.
This initiative will be rolled out in more wholly-owned local marketing companies.
be found in the Working with others section than 20 Emerging Markets where we assess Elsewhere, we sell through distributors or from page 22. there to be potential.
Our products are marketed primarily to physicians both Sales and marketing ethics Customer choice in North America primary care and specialist as well as to Driving high ethical standards across all We continue to develop our sales and other healthcare professionals.
Marketing our sales and marketing activity is one of marketing effort in the US as we strive to efforts are also directed towards explaining our top priorities.
It is an important part best meet our customers needs.
The focus the economic as well as the therapeutic of our overall commitment to patient for 2009 was to ensure that our interactions benefits of our products to governments and health and safety, and to delivering with healthcare professional HCP others who pay for healthcare.
customers match their desire for more contact is still the single most effective flexible methods to access our products that marketing method but, increasingly, Our business is global and culturally are not solely dependent on the traditional the efforts of our sales force are being diverse.
Societal expectations and legal sales representative.
complemented by our use of the internet.
requirements often vary significantly In the US, where it is an approved and between the different countries in which As a result, two new customer teams normal practice, we also use direct-towe operate.
We work to manage these have been created to deliver services and consumer advertising campaigns for differences effectively and deliver information.
One team was charged with some products.
delivering all the traditional services, but to do so remotely and at a time that matched To improve our commercial effectiveness Everyone involved in sales and marketing the HCPs schedule.
The second team we are benchmarking with leading industries activities is required to adopt the same core simply focused on delivering samples and in the area of customer insight.
This helps standards, regardless of their particular role patient support materials to the HCPs develop a better understanding of real needs or location.
These standards are outlined practice.
At the same time, we have of customers upon which we can plan and in our Code of Conduct and supporting expanded our web-based capabilities to act.
It allows us to be more focused in our policies, and more detail is given in our improve the way we deliver service over communications with customers.
regional and local marketing codes.
local codes reflect differences in national Our rapid growth in Emerging Markets legislation and healthcare systems.
In cases The intended result of these changes is to is driving demand for central commercial where our standards differ from local law, offer customers choices about how we can support, particularly in respect of sales force we adopt whichever standard is higher.
Our best meet their needs and the needs of effectiveness.
Core sales and marketing policies are regularly reviewed and updated, their patients.
training programmes have been adapted and targeted training is provided for our staff for, and deployed in, local environments.
Reshaping in Other Established Markets The main focus of these programmes is Across Europe, we have significantly reshaped to embed core commercial skills and to Compliance with our Code of Conduct the organisation in order to stay competitive strengthen sales managers coaching and supporting policies is mandatory in an evolving market place.
By focusing on and planning skills.
and monitored by line managers locally, core activities and building capabilities around with support from dedicated compliance these, we have strengthened focus in the Working in collaboration professionals.
We also have a nominated critical area of market access, whilst also being The preparations and launch of Onglyza, signatory network that works to ensure that able to significantly improve productivity in the the first brand in the AstraZeneca BMS our promotional materials meet all applicable sales force.
diabetes alliance, has brought significant internal and external code requirements.
experience and learning to both Market access is an increasingly organisations.
The joint work between our Information concerning instances where our important area.
In order to develop products companies has improved planning, time to practices may not be up to the standards that meet the needs of payers we are market and execution of the launch.
In June, we require is collected through our various focusing even more on understanding the we entered into an agreement under which compliance and continuous assurance priorities and agendas of both payers and AstraZeneca obtained the non-exclusive reporting routes and reviewed by senior healthcare providers.
Building on this right to co-promote Trilipix, alongside management in local and or regional information, we seek to demonstrate how Abbott in the US excluding Puerto Rico.
As appropriate, our products offer value and support This is the second co-promotion agreement serious breaches are reviewed by the Board cost-effective healthcare.
between AstraZeneca and Abbott, the first and the Audit Committee.
More information being for Crestor.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 30 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Breaches of external sales and marketing regulations or codes 2009 24 2008 15 2007 32 Driving high ethical standards across all our sales and marketing activity is one of our top priorities.
about our compliance and risk assurance Final settlement is subject to negotiation of a processes is contained in the Managing risk civil settlement agreement and a corporate section from page 79. integrity agreement.
More information can be found in Note 25 to the Financial Statements In 2009, we identified a total of 24 confirmed from page 166. breaches of external sales and marketing regulations or codes globally 2008: 15: We will continue to work to strengthen our 2007: 32.
The increase over 2008 is, we governance of our sales and marketing believe, largely due to increased self-reporting activity through 2010, including additional Jeff Pott ie where we have identified that a breach monitoring and audit programmes, and General Counsel has occurred and voluntarily reported it to the performance measurement.
Whilst our relevant national authorities.
This reflects our current KPI has provided a benchmark continued internal vigilance and determination against which to measure our performance to identify and follow through on possible in recent years, the variations among the Patent protection underpins the breaches of the high standards we set national external regulatory frameworks research-based pharmaceutical ourselves.
The number should also be viewed continue to create a challenge for us in industry we recognise it brings in the context of the continuing diligence interpreting the number of cases of confirmed responsibilities as well as privileges.
of external code of practice agencies and breaches of external regulations or codes.
regulatory authorities in identifying and In addition, a single confirmed breach by processing complaints.
AstraZeneca can involve more than one employee failing to meet the standards We also received a number of approaches required and we are aware that there may about sales and marketing practices from be failures to meet standards which are not regulatory authorities and other bodies that confirmed and so will not affect the KPI.
did not result in any formal ruling.
Although We are therefore currently reviewing more these incidents are not included in our KPI meaningful ways in which to measure our number, we did follow-up with appropriate performance and plan to introduce a new actions to help ensure that all relevant KPI during 2010 which will drive further learning is taken fully into account in our improvement and support increased future activities.
transparency in this key aspect of our activity.
We take all breaches very seriously and take appropriate action to prevent repeat occurrences.
This may include retraining or other corrective action, up to and including dismissal.
In September 2009, AstraZeneca reached an agreement in principle with the US Attorneys Office to settle claims relating to Seroquel sales and marketing practices and to make a payment of $524 million including interest.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
