22 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Working with others We recognise that we cannot achieve our strategic goals on our own.
To deliver successful medicines to market we need to work with doctors, patients and other stakeholders to understand what they need and want.
We work with governments and those who pay for healthcare to ensure our products Anders Ekblom represent value for money.
We also look Executive Vice-President, Development to develop new ways of working with others who complement our existing skills, enhance our internal innovation or bring extra value to what we do.
In doing I am passionate about creating a so, we work to ensure that those we work world-class R&D organisation that with meet our high ethical standards.
develops medicines which make a real difference to the health Innovation, value and externalisation of people around the world.
In a world of rapidly advancing science and technology, no pharmaceutical company can rely exclusively on its own resources if it is to stay at the forefront of pharmaceutical innovation.
Through our strategy of externalisation, we seek to expand our product portfolio and geographical presence through, for example, technology licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations Research and Development whether our compounds could become safe and, where appropriate, acquisitions of Strategy and effective medicines of the future.
Our R&D strategy is centred on delivering also focused on integrating our tools and sustained business growth through a databases to develop predictive platforms Accessing products through externalisation continuous flow of new and innovative across R&D.
is a key component of our efforts to both medicines that meet unmet medical need strengthen our pipeline of new products and at prices payers find acceptable.
Our Our capabilities to access opportunities to drive short-term strategic objective is to deliver a flow of new AstraZeneca has had a long history of growth.
Our Strategic Planning and medicines two new molecular entities per successful research leading to innovative, Business Development team works closely year on average.
In line with our ongoing effective and valued medicines.
We recognise with our R&D, Global Marketing and Finance externalisation strategy, we continue to look the need to build on this tradition and this is teams to deliver this.
beyond our own laboratories, and actively reflected in our strategy.
seek acquisitions and alliances with third We have completed over 60 major parties to gain access to the best science As we develop potential medicines through externalisation deals in the last three years as and or technology platforms.
In 2009, we a structured programme of studies, our well as numerous smaller deals to enhance completed three Phase III ready in-licence focus is on ensuring that they are developed and strengthen the portfolio.
Further details of deals 2008: three.
In addition, we have effectively to meet the needs of patients, the current status of a number of the products acquired Novexel completion of the regulators and payers.
We do so by applying concerned can be found in the Therapy Area acquisition is subject to the expiry or the best science to clinical need by designing Review from page 55. termination of the applicable waiting period appropriate programmes that ultimately under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust deliver successful submissions to regulators.
Significant late-stage deals completed in 2009 Improvements Act thus gaining access to two To this end, our cross-functional project and include the in-licence of ceftaroline, a next further compounds: one of which is Phase III product teams bring together all the relevant generation anti-infective, from Forest, and the ready and the other of which is Phase II ready.
skills and experience needed to ensure the in-licence of NKTR-118 and NKTR-119 from rapid development of effective new medicines.
Nektar to address opioid-induced constipation.
We are creating a knowledge-driven They also manage the associated risks In December, we also successfully concluded organisation by investing in information and ensure that quality and safety remain a major in-licence agreement with Targacept sources and tools to allow our scientists to fundamental considerations at every stage.
for TC-5214, a late-stage product for major integrate and exploit internal and external depressive disorder, and acquired Novexel knowledge, as well as share this knowledge Our R&D function has access to leading-edge completion of the acquisition is subject to the and enable innovative ways of working across technologies and capabilities such as stem expiry or termination of the applicable waiting the organisation.
This information sharing cells and RNA interference technology which period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino culture is allowing our pre-clinical and clinical support the development of therapeutic Antitrust Improvements Act to further build scientists to work together to select high agents across a range of Therapy Areas.
quality targets and compounds and to Our medicines pipeline spans all modalities design clinical studies to establish quickly with the majority of our late-stage pipeline AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 23 Performance Early-stage deals help build longer-term Training in the new standard was provided strength in the portfolio and in June we for procurement professionals during 2009. concluded a ground-breaking deal with For all AstraZeneca employees, our Code of Merck under which the two companies will Conduct training now includes a responsible collaborate to research a novel combination procurement awareness module.
anti-cancer regimen composed of two investigational compounds, MK-2206 from Our Responsible Procurement Process is Merck and AZD6244 from AstraZeneca based on an escalating set of risk-based due in-licensed from Array.
Other significant diligence activities, applied in a pragmatic early-stage deals included a risk-share way.
We assess a suppliers ethical risk areas collaboration with Jubilant aimed at and identify whether further assessment is multiple neuroscience targets, and a further needed to assure us that the supplier has collaboration with the Institute of Cancer appropriate systems and controls in place Research UK and Cancer Research to meet our ethical expectations.
As part of our effort to ensure we have initial assessment process is used for all cost-effective and flexible support services, suppliers and more detailed, specific During the year we also signed exclusive we signed a seven-year global outsourcing assessments are then made as required, worldwide licence agreements with Catalyst contract in December with NorthgateArinso proportionate to the level of risk a supplier Biosciences, Inc. to develop novel engineered UK Limited NGA for some human resource presents.
Our process allows us to share proteases and with Trellis Bioscience Inc. HR services.
NGA will begin to manage issues with suppliers and encourage them to develop and commercialise antibodies HR activities, such as payroll and data to improve their standards, rather than focused on respiratory syncytial virus.
management, enabling our internal HR automatically excluding them from our supply organisation to focus on areas where they can chain.
However, we will not use suppliers Deals that will help drive short-term growth most significantly contribute to the success who are unable or unwilling to embrace, in include a co-promotion agreement for Abbotts of the business, for example business a timely way, standards of ethical behaviour Trilipix in the US, a commercialisation partnering and centres of expertise, such as that are consistent with our own.
agreement with Astellas for Symbicort in talent management.
For more information on Japan, a distribution agreement with UCB our HR services, see the People section from In 2009, we completed responsible for Cimzia in Brazil and a co-promotion page 33.
Earlier in 2009, we signed a procurement assessments of over 800 of our agreement with Salix for Nexium in the US.
five-year contract with Genpact International, suppliers representing over 65% of our total Inc. to provide global finance and spend on third parties and implemented Another component of our externalisation accounting services and will continue to further assessments where required.
This strategy is to maximise value from our explore other areas where outsourcing can ongoing assessment programme will continue portfolio through disposals and out-licensing bring benefits to the business by improving throughout 2010. transactions.
In 2009, part of our Swedish service and reducing cost.
OTC over-the-counter portfolio was Our existing supplier evaluation procedure divested to GlaxoSmithKline and rights to Responsible procurement requires that comprehensive on-site supplier ophthalmological indications for a number Our commitment to responsible business audits of all our high-risk manufacturing of AstraZeneca assets were granted to extends to ensuring that we work only with suppliers are conducted at least once every Alcon.
Other disposals of note included suppliers who embrace standards of ethical four years.
Medium-risk suppliers are audited the out-licence of two pre-clinical oncology behaviour consistent with our own.
This is at the start of the business relationship and assets to Celleron Therapeutics Limited and required by our Code of Conduct and applies additional audits conducted if there are the divestment of a P38 Inhibitor programme across the full range of our procurement significant changes at a supplier.
These to Flexion Therapeutics AG.
Integrated Supplier Evaluation Protocol ISEP audits cover a range of risk areas, including Outsourcing and contract manufacturing Implementing our approach across the many product security and waste handling as well As part of our drive to reshape the business thousands of suppliers we have around the as social elements, such as human rights and we also outsource certain activities where we world is a significant challenge for a global labour standards.
During 2009, we conducted believe we can take advantage of third party company the size of AstraZeneca.
We have ISEP audits at 51 manufacturing sites at expertise.
Using specialist providers helps made some good progress in recent years 45 different suppliers 2008: 34 sites at us improve efficiency and focus on our core and to further strengthen our effort in this 31 suppliers.
The 2008 figures are higher business.
Outsourcing also reduces costs area, in 2009 we published a new Global than reported last year because a post year and creates a more flexible cost base which Responsible Procurement Standard.
end review identified that more audits had can be changed as our needs change.
This standard defines our Responsible been conducted than reported in 2008.
Procurement Process and provides clear We have already contracted out a significant direction about our risk-based approach portion of our supply and manufacturing to integrating ethical standards into our activity and are undertaking a programme procurement activity worldwide.
This includes of outsourcing other services and activities, a requirement to incorporate a responsible including some R&D processes, information business clause in contracts with suppliers.
services, facilities management and other internal support functions.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 24 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities Development projects new products and line extensions 2009 43 44 34 11 14 2008 46 34 31 10 23 2007 42 41 20 10 24 2006 49 23 18 5 25 2005 45 17 13 6 25 2004 31 17 13 5 25 Pre-clinical Clinical Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Line Extensions comprising small molecules.
We also have a We use biomarkers to help identify the efficacy taken to deliver key safety studies, without pipeline of biological approaches to targeting and safety of our compounds.
Testing for safety is disease which includes antibodies, antibody also carried out on animals before it is carried are biological factors or measures that can be derivatives, therapeutic proteins, peptides, used to quantify the progress of a disease out in man.
For further information see the and various types of live attenuated and and or the effects of a treatment, although Animal research section from page 26. sub-unit vaccines.
it is not always easy to identify a marker for Strengthening the pipeline each molecule.
Our R&D activities cover the entire life-cycle In the short term, we have continued to build of a medicine from the initial discovery of As responsible participants in the provision on the strong portfolio growth achieved over a new chemical molecular entity, through the of valued medicines for patients we believe the last few years.
Our portfolio volume in rigorous phases of pre-clinical and clinical clinical phases has grown by 5% in 2009 and strongly in helping to ensure that the right studies in man.
After a medicines launch, our medicines are prescribed to the right patients the distribution of the projects between the life-cycle management process including line at the right doses this is our interpretation various phases of development continues extensions is designed to ensure both its of personalised healthcare.
In the medium term, we will continued safe use and to explore its potential continue to drive our pre-clinical and clinical mind we are investing in finding new ways to for treating other diseases or extending its differentiate patients with apparently similar Phase I and II projects towards proof of use into additional patient populations.
A successful example of this concept as rapidly as possible.
We have approach is the recent European regulatory a wide range of compounds across all Our research process starts with the analysis modalities in early development and a total of approval of Iressa for patients with lung cancer of many thousands of compounds for their who have an activating mutation of the 44 projects in Phase I, 34 projects in Phase II potential to become a new medicine.
Only a endothelial growth factor receptor.
As part and 11 projects in Phase III Registration few make it through the various stages and of this approach we signed a collaboration development and are running 14 significant we work continuously to improve the quality life-cycle management projects.
agreement in December with Dako, a world of our chemical leads and biological targets, leader in cancer diagnostics.
We will work while working to eliminate, at an early stage, together with Dako to develop new medicines Further details are set out in the Development those compounds that are unlikely to succeed.
linked to diagnostic tests to predict which projects chart above and the Pipeline by We have also invested in a number of key Therapy Area chart opposite and in the patients are most likely to respond to potential academic collaborations to identify potential oncology treatments.
Development Pipeline table from page 196. new targets, disease mechanisms and technology platforms.
We continue to use Even before clinical studies begin, safety Improving productivity Lean Sigma-based business improvement The progress we are making in our drive to assessment is a critical part of our research.
For example, through A process including both in vitro and increase productivity continues to be reflected improvements in novel compound flow, using computer modelling allows for high in the delivery of projects from the pre-clinical material handling, and enhancement of many throughput testing for safety early in the study phase Discovery and the growth of our key decision-making tests, we have seen early clinical study Development portfolio stages of selecting the best compounds significant reductions in the turnaround time for development.
Our Lean Sigma approach where we have embedded a culture of of data in drug hunting projects.
We have also has driven a series of process improvements Lean Sigma.
During 2009, 29 projects were extended this way of working to a key supplier which have reduced the loss of compounds selected for Development 2008: 32. of compounds from China to improve our in late-stage clinical development on joint processes.
account of safety concerns and cut the time AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 25 Performance Throughout 2009, we focused on driving Our resources with capital investment supporting increases continuous improvement activities across At the end of 2009, we had a global R&D to R&D resources in India.
Both facilities are the entire R&D value chain.
We maintained organisation with around 11,600 people increasingly involved in Development activities.
and improved the performance gains in cycle 10,500 full time equivalent employees at times achieved in 2008 for small molecules.
17 principal centres in eight countries.
In 2009, we invested $4.4 billion in R&D 2008: $5.2 billion: 2007: $5.2 billion, $764 million on The use of predictive approaches in Our main small molecule facilities are in acquiring product rights such as in-licensing, pre-screening of candidate molecules has the UK Alderley Park, Macclesfield and and additionally approved $329 million of had notably increased success rates in some Charnwood : Sweden Lund, MIndal R&D capital investment to strengthen our areas in recent years.
For example, we have and Sdertlje : and the US Waltham, resources in line with our strategic objectives.
seen failure in early Development due to Massachusetts and Wilmington, Delaware.
genotoxicity fall to zero, and failure due to Other sites which have a focus on research are Several major capital projects were completed drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics has in Canada Montreal, Quebec : France Reims : during 2009, and the facilities handed over to reduced significantly.
Further application of and the UK KuDOS and Arrow Therapeutics the business, including laboratory and office these predictive approaches to the design and sites.
We have a clinical development facility expansions in Boston US, a new laboratory simulation of clinical trials using data from in Osaka, Japan.
Our principal sites for facility in Macclesfield UK and a new previous studies reduced the duration of the biologics and vaccines are in the US manufacturing facility in Mlndal Sweden.
clinical trial for one Phase II project by one to Gaithersburg, Maryland and Mountain View, Of the approved capital investment of two years, and its full projected development California and the UK Cambridge.
$329 million, there were no new major small cost reduced by over $100 million.
molecule R&D investments authorised during As part of our strategic expansion in important 2009.
The focus of the $79 million that has Despite this improvement in productivity, Emerging Markets, we continue to strengthen been authorised is on improving and we recognise the need to improve our rate our research capabilities in Asia Pacific.
The remaining of success in progressing projects from Investment continued during 2009 at our $250 million of approved investment was Phase II to Phase III.
This is a focus for our Innovation Centre China research facility in associated with our biologics laboratories future efforts.
Our research in the US and the UK, and influenza facility in Bangalore also continues to grow vaccine programmes.
Pipeline by Therapy Area at 28 January 2010 Recentin NSCLC # AZD6244 ARRY-142886 Olaparib formerly AZD2281 gBRCA breast cancer MEDI-534 MEDI-560 Olaparib formerly AZD2281 serious MEDI-550 ovarian cancer formerly MEDI-566 AZD4769 AZD0837 AZD8931 MEDI-557 AZD6370 AZD1152 AZD7762 MEDI-559 AZD1656 AZD7295 # # # AZD6482 AZD8330 AZD9742 CytoFab Onglyza Lesogaberan # ARRY-424704 AZD3355 AZD4017 CEF104 MEDI-3250 Brilinta Brilique Seroquel bipolar # # AZD6714 CAT-8015 AZD5847 AZD1386 CAZ104 Certriad Seroquel XR MDD # # # AZD8329 AZD8055 CAM-3001 AZD3480 AZD1981 Dapagliflozin Seroquel XR GAD # # AZD7687 MEDI-573 AZD8566 AZD6765 MEDI-528 Vimovo Crestor Iressa elevated CRP AZD2066 MEDI-575 AZD8075 AZD2327 CAT-354 Zactima Faslodex 500mg AZD2516 AZD1480 AZD5985 AZD2066 AZD9668 Recentin CRC Onglyza Faslodex # # metformin FDC AZD3241 MEDI-547 AZD2551 AZD8529 AZD1236 1st line advanced Recentin recurrent # breast cancer glioblastoma AZD6280 AZD2014 AZD5423 NKTR-118 AZD3199 Dapagliflozin # # # metformin FDC AZD2516 AZD5122 TC-5214 MEDI-563 Zibotentan FluMist AZD6244 # # # # AZD3043 ARRY-142886 AZD8683 TC-5619 MEDI-545 ZD4054 Motavizumab Nexium peptic # # MK2206 ulcer bleeding AZD8418 AZD5069 AZD7268 AZD9164 Motavizumab MEDI-3414 # # # H1N1 influenza AZD2423 AZD4547 MEDI-546 AZD1446 AZD8848 Ceftaroline Axanum Phase I Phase II Phase III Line extensions Registration Key Cardiovascular Gastrointestinal Infection Addition New filing Reclassified Neuroscience Oncology Respiratory & Inflammation No change Approved Progression Launched # Partnered product.
Subject to expiry or termination of the applicable waiting period under the US Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 26 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities R&D investment $m Externalisation are followed including managing any special Core Our externalisation strategy continues to circumstances such as different levels of focus on enhancing our internal innovation literacy.
We also have procedures in place 2009 4,334 through investment, external collaborations to ensure that the privacy of participants 2008 4,953 and acquisitions that further strengthen our health information is protected.
Further information on our activities can be found in the Working We take very seriously our responsibility to R&D investment $m with others section from page 22. protect trial participants from any unnecessary Reported risks and avoid any serious adverse reactions.
2009 4,409 Our New Opportunities group has continued Throughout the research process, we 2008 5,179 to seek additional value from our portfolio continuously review, and make judgements 2007 5,162 by facilitating re-profiling across our Therapy on whether the potential benefits of a new Areas and by identifying additional disease medicine continue to outweigh the risk of areas in which our compounds can meet side effects.
For example, in 2009 we concluded a strategic alliance with Whilst all our AstraZeneca clinical studies are the ophthalmology company, Alcon, to conceptually designed and finally interpreted identify innovative eye care products using in-house, some of them are run for us by AstraZeneca compounds in areas adjacent external contract research organisations to our Therapy Areas of focus.
The percentage of studies we place with CROs varies, depending on the number R&D ethics of trials we have underway and the amount We are committed to delivering innovation of internal resources available to do the work.
responsibly by setting and working to In 2009, around 24% of patients in our global consistently high ethical standards across all studies of our small molecule portfolio and aspects of our R&D worldwide.
Compliance around 89% of patients in our biologics studies with relevant laws and regulations is a were monitored by CROs on our behalf.
minimum baseline and underpins our own global principles and standards, as outlined Our clinical data handling is outsourced to in our global Bioethics Policy.
Cognizant Technology Solutions Sweden AB, a business process solution company and Further information about our commitment during the year, we announced a strategic to responsible research is available on our alliance with Quintiles Limited to provide website, astrazeneca.
integrated services for the majority of our clinical pharmacology studies.
These sourcing Clinical trials decisions have helped us to promote We conduct an increasing number of our consistency, drive resource efficiency and, clinical trials at multiple sites in several different importantly, helped to speed up our internal countries.
A broad geographic span helps data interpretation and decision-making.
us to ensure that those taking part reflect the diversity of patients around the world We remain committed to making information for whom the new medicine is intended.
about our clinical trial activities publicly This approach also helps to identify the types available.
We publish information on the of people for whom the treatment may be registration and results of all new and ongoing most beneficial.
AstraZeneca sponsored clinical trials for all products in all phases, including marketed We take a number of factors into account medicines, medicines in development and when choosing a trial location.
These include those whose further development has been the availability of experienced and independent discontinued.
We post results, irrespective of ethics committees and a robust regulatory whether they are favourable or unfavourable regime, as well as sufficient numbers of to AstraZeneca on public websites, including trained healthcare professionals and patients for small molecule compounds on our own willing to participate in a trial.
By the end of 2009, we had registered When conducting a trial anywhere in over 1,100 trials and published the results the world, we operate to the highest of of more than 600 trials.
the standards required by the external international, regional or local regulations, Animal research and our own internal standards.
Our pre-clinical research includes animal studies, which continue to play a vital role Before a trial begins, we work to make sure in the R&D of new medicines.
They provide that those taking part understand the nature essential information, not available through and purpose of the research and that proper other methods, about the effects of a potential procedures for gaining informed consent new therapy on disease and the living body.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Resources, Skills and Capabilities 27 Performance Regulatory authorities around the world also MAbs are highly specific to human physiology, may present several such opportunities in require safety data from pre-clinical testing so primates are, in most cases, the only enhancing the drug discovery process as in animals before a new medicine can be relevant animal model because of their well as providing therapeutic options.
Significant scientific progress has been We are committed to the responsible use of In line with our global Bioethics Policy, made in the development of stem cell-based animals.
All our research using animals is AstraZeneca does not currently conduct or research models for improved prediction of carefully considered and justified and, backed outsource work using wild caught primates safety, metabolism and efficacy of emerging by our Bioethics Policy, we continue to drive or great ape species.
In the rare case where candidate drugs, with promising results.
the application of the 3Rs Replacement, there is a substantial medical need and Our interest is in the potential of stem cells to Reduction and Refinement of animal studies no credible alternative model is available, differentiate into normal human cells, such as across our research activity.
Wherever exceptions may be considered.
However, hepatocytes liver cells and cardiac myocytes possible, we use non-animal methods such this will require rigorous secondary ethical heart muscle cells and use those cells in as cell culture, computer modelling and and scientific review, in addition to our normal biological assays.
We believe this could high-throughput screening that eliminate the review processes, to challenge the need for represent a significant step forward in need to use animals early in drug development, the study, followed by appropriate Board increasing the clinical relevance of studies at or reduce the number needed.
As part of level approval.
an earlier stage of development of a potential our drive for continuous improvement, we new medicine and would help us to overcome continue to use statistical design to optimise The welfare of all the animals we use continues the current limitations that a restricted supply our studies and reduce the numbers of to be a top priority.
Compliance with relevant of human cells presents.
However, more work animals needed.
We also work to refine our laws and regulations is a minimum baseline is needed to understand the full potential of existing animal models to ensure that the and underpins our own global Bioethics Policy this type of research.
It is a relatively new animals we use are exposed to as little pain and standards of animal care and welfare area and we do not have all the necessary and stress as possible.
We continuously which apply worldwide.
Qualified veterinary skills and technologies in-house.
We are review all our animal studies to make sure staff are involved in the development and therefore working with external partners who that they continue to add value to our implementation of our animal welfare have expertise and an ethical commitment research decision-making processes.
programmes and everyone working with consistent with our own, such as Cellartis AB laboratory animals is trained and competent Cellartis, a biotech company focused on The number of animals we use each year in their allocated responsibilities.
As well as applications of human embryonic stem cells, depends on the amount of pre-clinical mandatory inspections by government cell technologies and the UK public-private research we are doing and the complexity of authorities, we have a formal programme partnership, Stem Cells for Safer Medicines.
We remain of regular audits carried out by our own We also participated in a European focused on making sure that we minimise qualified staff.
Framework Research VI programme working the use of animals without compromising with stem cells.
Further collaborations will the quality of the research data.
In 2009, External contract research organisations that include the use of induced pluripotent we used approximately 393,000 animals conduct animal studies on AstraZenecas stem cells.
In addition, behalf are also required to comply with our approximately 17,000 animals were used by ethical standards, and we conduct regular Increasingly, we are also exploring the external contract research organisations on audits to ensure our requirements are potential to treat disease by modulation our behalf 2008: 29,000.
We believe that being met.
of stem cells within target organs using this number would be much greater without either small molecules or biological our active commitment to the 3Rs.
We no In November 2008, the European Commission therapies, an exciting new area often longer report, as a KPI, the number of published its proposal to revise the 1986 EU referred to as regenerative medicine.
animals we use in our research, although we Directive 86 609 Directive on the protection Here, we are embarking on several external will continue to publish the figures each year.
of animals used for scientific purposes.
We collaborations, such as the one with Cellartis, This reflects our commitment to continuous support the need for Europe-wide legislation combining the best ideas and latest innovation improvement through the application of concerning the use of animals in research and in academic research with our ability to the 3Rs and good scientific practice, revision of the Directive to reflect advances search for new drugs.
We are looking for which we believe is the true indicator of in science and technology.
However, we are the potential of molecules to direct the fate our performance.
More information about contributing to discussions about changes of stem cells towards therapeutic benefit in our commitment is available on our website, in a number of areas that we believe are diseases such as diabetes and emphysema, astrazeneca.
necessary to ensure that, alongside the thus identifying potentially new candidate promotion of high standards of animal welfare, drugs.
Further investments will follow in We only use primates in circumstances where the new legislation supports the ability to this area.
no other species or non-animal methods can conduct, in Europe, R&D that addresses provide the safety or clinical benefit information patient needs.
Our commitment to ensuring high ethical that we are seeking in a study, and where standards is reflected in our Human the outcomes of the study are likely to bring Stem cell research Embryonic Stem Cell Research Policy significant advances for the development of As a company whose success is built on framework, as set out in our Bioethics Policy, new medicines.
Our expanding biologics leading-edge science, we continuously which demands compliance both with capability means that we will be increasing monitor and assess new research capabilities external legislation, regulations and guidelines, our primate use over time, particularly in the to identify opportunities that could help and with our own codes of practice.
development of MAbs targeted at important us deliver better medicines for patients areas such as cancer and respiratory disease.
We believe that stem cell research AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
