46 Directors Report | Financial Review Gross to net sales 2009 2008 2007 2006 $m $m $m $m Gross sales 22,641 20,029 18,456 16,577 Chargebacks 1,841 1,726 1,130 975 Regulatory US government and state programmes 1,357 1,005 732 532 Contractual Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 4,753 3,658 3,179 2,413 Cash and other discounts 428 390 356 329 Customer returns 187 48 18 46 Other 196 167 145 256 Net sales 13,879 13,035 12,896 12,026 Movement in provisions Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December at 1 January 2009 current year of prior years and payments 2009 $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 359 1,947 106 1,804 396 Regulatory US government and state programmes 520 1,373 16 1,102 775 Contractual Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 1,084 4,732 20 4,389 1,447 Cash and other discounts 39 428 426 40 Customer returns 77 194 2 93 177 Other 57 198 2 194 59 Total 2,136 8,871 106 8,009 2,895 Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December at 1 January 2008 current year of prior years and payments 2008 $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 186 1,745 19 1,553 359 Regulatory US government and state programmes 428 997 8 913 520 Contractual Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 900 3,622 36 3,474 1,084 Cash and other discounts 38 390 389 39 Customer returns 85 48 56 77 Other 53 167 163 57 Total 1,690 6,969 25 6,548 2,136 Additions in Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward respect of Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December at 1 January 2007 MedImmune current year of prior years and payments 2007 $m $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 92 2 1,115 15 1,038 186 Regulatory US government and state programmes 314 69 769 37 687 428 Contractual Managed-care and group purchasing organisation rebates 635 5 3,100 79 2,919 900 Cash and other discounts 29 1 356 348 38 Customer returns 160 1 19 1 94 85 Other 47 153 147 53 Total 1,277 78 5,512 56 5,233 1,690 For products facing generic competition revenue is recognised only when the amount fluctuations in the level of inventory they such as Ethyol and Toprol-XL in the US our of the revenue can be measured reliably.
We do not offer any incentives to experience is that we usually lose the ability to Our approach in meeting this condition for encourage wholesaler speculative buying estimate the levels of returns from wholesalers products facing generic competition will vary and attempt, where possible, to restrict with the same degree of precision that from product to product depending on the shipments to underlying demand when such we can for products still subject to patent specific circumstances.
This is because we have limited or no insight into a number of areas the actual The movements on US pharmaceuticals Royalty income timing of the launch of a generic competitor revenue accruals are set out above.
Royalty income is recorded under other following regulatory approval of the generic operating income in the Financial Statements.
product for example, a generic manufacturer The adjustments in respect of prior years Royalties tend to be linked to levels of sales may or may not have produced adequate benefited Reported US pharmaceuticals or production by a third party.
At the time of pre-launch inventory, the pricing and turnover by 0.24% in 2007, and decreased preparing the Financial Statements, we may marketing strategy of the competitor, the turnover by 1% in 2008. have to estimate the third partys sales or take-up of the generic and in cases where a production when arriving at the royalty income generic manufacturer has approval to launch We have distribution service agreements with to be included.
These estimates, which may just one dose size in a market of several dose major wholesaler buyers, which serve to differ from actual sales or production, do not sizes the likely level of switching from one reduce the speculative purchasing behaviour result in a material impact on Reported other dose to another.
Under our accounting policy, of the wholesalers and reduce short-term operating income.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 Directors Report | Financial Review 47 Reviews Sales of intangible assets Impairment testing of goodwill Impairment reviews have been carried out A consequence of charging all internal R&D and intangible assets on all intangible assets that are in development expenditure to the income statement in the We have significant investments in goodwill and not being amortised, all major intangible year in which it is incurred which is normal and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions assets acquired during the year, all intangible practice in the pharmaceutical industry is of businesses and purchases of assets, such assets that have had indications of impairment that we own valuable intangible assets which as product development and marketing rights.
during the year and all intangible assets are not recorded on the balance sheet.
We recognised on the acquisition of MedImmune.
also own acquired intangible assets which For the purpose of impairment testing of Sales forecasts and specific allocated costs are included on the balance sheet.
As a goodwill, the Group is regarded as a single which have both been subject to appropriate consequence of regular reviews of product cash-generating unit.
senior management sign-off are discounted strategy, from time to time we sell such assets using AstraZenecas risk-adjusted pre-tax and generate income.
Sales of product lines The recoverable amount is based on value in weighted average cost of capital.
are often accompanied by an agreement use, using discounted risk-adjusted projections on our part to continue manufacturing the of the Groups pre-tax cash flows over 10 The majority of our investments in intangible relevant product for a reasonable period years, a period reflecting the average assets and goodwill arose from the often about two years whilst the purchaser patent-protected lives of our current products.
restructuring of the joint venture with Merck in constructs its own manufacturing facilities.
The projections include assumptions about 1998 and 2008, the acquisition of MedImmune The contracts typically involve the receipt product launches, competition from rival in 2007 and the payment to partially retire of an upfront payment, which the contract products and pricing policy as well as the Mercks interests in our products in the US in attributes to the sale of the intangible assets, possibility of generics entering the market.
2008, and we are satisfied that the carrying and ongoing receipts, which the contract In setting these assumptions we consider values are fully justified by estimated future attributes to the sale of the product we our past experience, external sources of cash flows.
In cases where the transaction information including information on expected has two or more components, we account for increases and ageing of the populations Litigation the delivered item for example, the transfer in Established Markets and the expanding In the normal course of business, contingent of title to the intangible asset as a separate patient population in newer markets, liabilities may arise from product-specific and unit of accounting and record revenue on our knowledge of competitor activity and general legal proceedings, from guarantees delivery of that component provided that our assessment of future changes in the or from environmental liabilities connected we can make a reasonable estimate of the pharmaceutical industry.
The 10-year period with our current or former sites.
Where we fair value of the undelivered component.
is covered by internal budgets and forecasts.
believe that potential liabilities have a less Where the fair market value of the undelivered Given that internal budgets and forecasts than 50% probability of crystallising or are component for example, a manufacturing are prepared for all projections, no general very difficult to quantify reliably, we treat agreement exceeds the contracted price growth rates are used to extrapolate internal them as contingent liabilities.
These are not for that component we defer an appropriate budgets and forecasts for the purposes of provided for but are disclosed in Note 25 element of the upfront consideration and determining value in use.
to the Financial Statements from page 166. amortise this over the performance period.
However, where the fair market value of the In arriving at value in use, we disaggregate In cases that have been settled or adjudicated, undelivered component is equal to or lower our projected pre-tax cash flows into groups or where quantifiable fines and penalties than the contracted price for that component reflecting similar risks and tax effects.
For each have been assessed and which are not we treat the whole of the upfront amount as group of cash flows we use an appropriate subject to appeal or other similar forms of being attributable to the delivered intangible discount rate reflecting those risks and tax relief, or where a loss is probable and we assets and recognise that part of the revenue effects.
In arriving at the appropriate discount are able to make a reasonable estimate of upon delivery.
No element of the contracted rate for each group of cash flows, we adjust the loss, we indicate the loss absorbed or revenue related to the undelivered component AstraZenecas post-tax weighted average the amount of the provision accrued.
is allocated to the sale of the intangible asset.
cost of capital 7.6% for 2009 to reflect the This is because the contracted revenue impact of risks and tax effects.
The weighted AstraZeneca is defending its interests in relating to the undelivered component is average pre-tax discount rate we used was various federal and state investigations and contingent on future events such as sales approximately 14%.
civil litigation matters relating to drug marketing and so cannot be anticipated.
and pricing practices and in respect of which As a cross-check, we compare our market AstraZeneca has made an aggregate provision Research and Development capitalisation to the book value of our net of $636 million in the year.
$524 million of Our business is underpinned by our marketed assets and this indicates significant surplus this provision has been made in respect of products and development portfolio.
the US Attorneys Offices investigation into expenditure on internal activities to generate sales and marketing practices involving these products is generally charged to the No goodwill impairment was identified.
Seroquel, with the remainder relating to income statement in the year that it is incurred.
average wholesale price litigation pending Purchases of intellectual property and product The Group has also performed sensitivity in the US federal court.
The current status rights to supplement our R&D portfolio analysis calculations on the projections used of these matters is described more fully in are capitalised as intangible assets.
Such and discount rate applied.
The Directors have Note 25 to the Financial Statements from intangible assets are amortised from the concluded that, given the significant headroom page 166.
This provision constitutes our best launch of the underlying products and are that exists, and the results of the sensitivity estimate at this time of the losses expected tested for impairment both before and after analysis performed, there is no significant risk for these matters.
This policy is in line with practice that reasonable changes in key assumptions adopted by major pharmaceutical companies.
will cause the carrying value of goodwill to exceed its value in use.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009 48 Directors Report | Financial Review Where it is considered that the Group is more Post-retirement benefits to assess whether a provision should be likely than not to prevail, legal costs involved We offer post-retirement benefit plans which taken against full recognition of the benefit in defending the claim are charged to profit cover many of our employees around the on the basis of potential settlement through as they are incurred.
Where it is considered world.
In keeping with local terms and negotiation and or litigation.
All such provisions that the Group has a valid contract which conditions, most of these plans are defined are included in creditors due within one year.
provides the right to reimbursement from contribution in nature, where the resulting Any recorded exposure to interest on tax insurance or otherwise of legal costs and or income statement charge is fixed at a set liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
all or part of any loss incurred or for which a level or is a set percentage of employees provision has been established, we consider pay.
However, several plans, mainly in the UK AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer recovery to be virtually certain and the best which has by far the largest single scheme, pricing audits in jurisdictions around the estimate of the amount expected to be the US and Sweden, are defined benefit plans world and, in some cases, is in dispute with received is recognised as an asset.
where benefits are based on employees the tax authorities.
These disputes usually length of service and final salary typically result in taxable profits being increased in At 31 December legal defence costs of averaged over one, three or five years.
one territory and correspondingly decreased approximately $656 million have been incurred The UK and US defined benefit schemes in another.
Our balance sheet positions in connection with Seroquel-related product were closed to new entrants in 2000.
All new for these matters reflect appropriate liability claims.
The first $39 million is not employees in these countries are offered corresponding relief in the territories affected.
At 31 December defined contribution schemes.
The total net accrual included in the Financial AstraZeneca has recorded an insurance Statements to cover the worldwide exposure receivable of $521 million 2008: $426 million In applying IAS 19 Employee Benefits, to transfer pricing audits is $2,327 million, representing the maximum insurance we recognise all actuarial gains and an increase of $699 million, which is due to receivable that AstraZeneca can recognise losses immediately through reserves.
This a number of new audits, revisions of estimates under applicable accounting principles at methodology results in a less volatile income relating to existing audits, offset by a number this time.
This amount may increase as statement charge than under the alternative of negotiated settlements and exchange AstraZeneca believes that it is more likely approach of recognising actuarial gains rate effects.
than not that the vast majority of costs above and losses over time.
Investment decisions the $521 million recorded as an insurance in respect of defined benefit schemes are Included in the total net accrual are receivable will ultimately be recovered through based on underlying actuarial and economic amounts in respect of the following transfer this insurance, although there can be no circumstances with the intention of ensuring pricing arrangements: assurance of additional coverage under the that the schemes have sufficient assets policies, or that the insurance receivable we to meet liabilities as they fall due, rather AstraZeneca and Her Majestys Revenue have recognised will be realisable in full.
& Customs HMRC have made a joint The trustees follow a strategy of awarding referral to the UK Court in respect of Assessments as to whether or not to mandates to specialist, active investment transfer pricing between our UK operation recognise provisions or assets and of the managers, which results in a broad and one of our overseas operations for amounts concerned usually involve a series diversification of investment styles and the years 1996 to date as there continues of complex judgements about future events asset classes.
The investment approach is to be a material difference between and can rely heavily on estimates and intended to produce less volatility in the plan the Groups and HMRCs positions.
AstraZeneca believes that asset returns.
An additional referral in respect of the provisions recorded are adequate based controlled foreign company aspects of on currently available information and that In assessing the discount rate applied to the same case was made during 2008. the insurance recoveries recorded will be the obligations, we have used rates on AA Absent a negotiated settlement, litigation received.
However, given the inherent corporate bonds with durations corresponding is set to commence in 2010. uncertainties involved in assessing the to the maturities of those obligations.
AstraZeneca has applied for an advance outcomes of these cases and in estimating pricing agreement in relation to intra-group the amount of the potential losses and the In all cases, the pension costs recorded in transactions between the UK and the associated insurance recoveries, we could in the Financial Statements are assessed in US which is being progressed through future periods incur judgments or insurance accordance with the advice of independent competent authority proceedings under settlements that could have a material adverse qualified actuaries but require the exercise the relevant double tax treaty.
effect on our results in any particular period.
of significant judgement in relation to assumptions for future salary and pension Management continues to believe that The position could change over time, and increases, long-term price inflation and AstraZenecas positions on all its transfer there can, therefore, be no assurance that investment returns.
pricing audits and disputes are robust and any losses that result from the outcome of that AstraZeneca is appropriately provided.
any legal proceedings will not exceed the Taxation amount of the provisions that have been Accruals for tax contingencies require For transfer pricing audits where AstraZeneca booked in the accounts.
management to make judgements and and the tax authorities are in dispute, estimates in relation to tax audit issues and AstraZeneca estimates the potential for Although there can be no assurance exposures.
Amounts accrued are based reasonably possible additional losses above regarding the outcome of legal proceedings, on managements interpretation of countryand beyond the amount provided to be up to we do not currently expect them to have specific tax law and the likelihood of $575 million.
However, management believes a material adverse effect on our financial settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised that it is unlikely that these additional losses position, but they could significantly affect unless the tax positions are probable of being will arise.
Of the remaining tax exposures, our Reported financial results in any sustained.
Once considered to be probable, AstraZeneca does not expect material particular period.
management reviews each material tax benefit additional losses.
It is not possible to estimate AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
