204 Additional Information Corporate Directors The Board has the authority to manage On a distribution of assets of the Company, Information the business of the Company, for example, on a winding-up or other return of capital through powers to allot and re-purchase subject to certain exceptions, the holders its shares, subject where required to of Redeemable Preference Shares have History and development shareholder resolutions.
Subject to certain priority over the holders of Ordinary of the Company exceptions, Directors do not have power to Shares to receive the capital paid up AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in vote at Board meetings on matters in which on those shares.
England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under they have a material interest.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited Act 2006, the Company has the right company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys The quorum for meetings of the Board is to redeem the Redeemable Preference registered number is 2723534 and its a majority of the full Board, of whom at least Shares at any time on giving not less registered office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the than seven days written notice.
London W1K 1LN telephone 44 0 20 absence of a quorum, the Directors do not 7304 5000.
From February 1993 until have power to determine compensation Action necessary to change the rights April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca arrangements for themselves or any member of shareholders Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company of the Board.
In order to vary the rights attached to any changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
class of shares, the consent in writing of The Board may exercise all the powers of the holders of three quarters in nominal The Company was formed when the the Company to borrow money.
Variation value of the issued shares of that class or pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty of these borrowing powers would require the sanction of an extraordinary resolution chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical the passing of a special resolution of the passed at a general meeting of such holders Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company All Directors must retire from office at the General meetings merged with Astra of Sweden.
In 2000, Companys AGM each year and may present AGMs and other general meetings, as from it demerged the agrochemical business and themselves for re-election.
Directors are time to time may be required, where a special merged it with the similar agribusiness of not prohibited, upon reaching a particular resolution is to be passed or a Director is to Novartis AG to form a new company called age, from submitting themselves for election be appointed require 21 clear days notice to Syngenta AG.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, other general meetings require 14 clear In 2007, the Group acquired MedImmune, Within two months of the date of their days notice.
a biologics and vaccines business based appointment, Directors are required to in the US.
beneficially own Ordinary Shares of an For all general meetings, a quorum of aggregate nominal amount of $125, which two shareholders present in person or by The Group owns and operates numerous currently represents at least 500 shares.
proxy, and entitled to vote on the business R&D, production and marketing facilities transacted, is required.
Its corporate headquarters are Rights, preferences and restrictions at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN.
attaching to shares Shareholders and their duly appointed The share capital of the Company is divided proxies and corporate representatives are Articles into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares and entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
The Companys objects were originally set out The Ordinary Shares represent 99.9% Limitations on the rights to own shares in its Memorandum of Association.
However, and the Redeemable Preference Shares There are no limitations on the rights to by operation of law, these objects are now represent 0.01% of the Companys total own shares.
deemed to be provisions of the Articles.
share capital these percentages have As is typical of companies registered in been calculated by reference to the closing Property England and Wales, the Companys objects mid-point US$ GBP exchange rate on Substantially all of our properties are held are broad and wide-ranging and include 31 December as published in the London freehold, free of material encumbrances manufacturing, distributing and trading edition of the Financial Times newspaper.
and we believe that such properties are fit pharmaceutical products.
The rights and restrictions attaching to for their purpose.
the Redeemable Preference Shares differ Any amendment to the Articles requires from those attaching to Ordinary Shares the approval of shareholders by a special as follows: resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights to receive dividends.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices of, attend or vote at general meetings except in certain limited circumstances.
They have one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2009
