Customer-Focused Product Development Our customer-focused Our customers are key to our success.
01 Information gathering product development cycle We work closely with them to understand the challenges We are always seeking ways to improve our they face and develop solutions which are tailored to their products and services.
Extensive user studies specific requirements.
help to understand what our customers want from the next generation of products.
Customer questionnaires and interviews help us to understand work processes and provide valuable guidelines for user design.
In addition, our worldwide network of ofces means that we have people who are in the best position to understand local markets and customers.
Working together We aim to develop long-lasting relationships with our customers, and are proud to have worked with some customers for more than 50 years.
We spend time with them understanding their industry and the challenges they face.
Our experienced engineers then develop solutions which are tailored to their exact requirements.
We take pride in improving our knowledge and understanding, to the extent that we become experts in our customers processes.
We can then convert this 02 Research and development knowledge into innovation in products and processes.
05 Feedback Research and development is fundamental to our business philosophy and our Account managers communicate regularly commitment to constant innovation has with our customers and obtain feedback resulted in an impressive collection of from them, which is incorporated into technical patents.
Our products new product development.
Customer incorporate the very latest in technology, satisfaction surveys are also carried out offering advanced benets.
We involve and the results used to rene the next professional users in the design of new generation of products.
products, ensuring that we understand their needs and convert this knowledge into innovation in products and processes.
Brel & Kjrs new software product, PULSE Reflex, is a Demonstration systems are often offered major development of its popular sound and vibration to customers to capture customer input to platform, extending the measurement and analysis chain the requirement specication.
04 Support and services The ParacubeMicro is the latest addition to Servomexs We offer a full range of services for our 03 Product launch portfolio of innovative gas sensors.
Combining worldproducts, including installation, training, leading gas analysis technologies with cutting-edge design technical support, calibration and and manufacturing, the Paracube Micro establishes a new As part of the process of bringing the maintenance.
An extensive team of standard for oxygen analysis.
resulting new products to market, we support personnel and applications seek the involvement of potential specialists provide fast support, often customers at the final stages of product using remote diagnostic procedures.
The HBM Academy in Darmstadt, Germany, comprises an development and for beta evaluations.
We also hold training seminars and application and training centre where seminars, workshops Often we will provide a number of courses, not only for customers to learn and training courses take place for existing customers with a mock up in the form about specic products, but also to and potential customers.
Working help them understand how to use our through the example as though it were products to achieve greater payback a real test enables a more realistic for their company.
evaluation and provides more precise feedback on improvements.
10 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 01 Information gathering We are always seeking ways to improve our products and services.
Extensive user studies help to understand what our customers want from the next generation of products.
02 Research and development 05 Feedback Research and development is fundamental to our business philosophy and our Account managers communicate regularly commitment to constant innovation has with our customers and obtain feedback resulted in an impressive collection of from them, which is incorporated into technical patents.
Demonstration systems are often offered to customers to capture customer input to the requirement specication.
04 Support and services We offer a full range of services for our 03 Product launch products, including installation, training, technical support, calibration and As part of the process of bringing the maintenance.
An extensive team of resulting new products to market, we support personnel and applications seek the involvement of potential specialists provide fast support, often customers at the final stages of product using remote diagnostic procedures.
development and for beta evaluations.
We also hold training seminars and Often we will provide a number of courses, not only for customers to learn customers with a mock up in the form about specic products, but also to of an application example.
11 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
