Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Enhancing Productivity Spectris plc Station Road Egham Surrey TW20 9NP England T: 44 0 1784 470470 F: 44 0 1784 470848 info@spectris.
com Directory of Companies Spectris is a leading supplier of  instrumentation and controls.
Our products, applications and services help customers to improve product quality and Materials Analysis performance, improve core manufacturing processes, reduce downtime and wastage and reduce time to market.
Our businesses Malvern Instruments PANalytical Particle Measuring Systems Material characterisation tools to measure X-ray analytical equipment for industrial Micro-contamination monitoring systems are leaders in the markets they serve, properties of bio and synthetic macroand scientific applications.
for ultraclean environments and providing solutions for customers across molecules, nano-materials, particulates www.
com a wide range of industries.
com Test and Measurement Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration HBM Measuring and excitation systems for Load cells, transducers, strain gauges, sound and vibration engineering.
signal conditioning and data acquisition www.
com systems, weighing electronics, test and Contents measurement software and services.
com Business Overview 01 Highlights 02 Group at a Glance In-line Instrumentation 04 Chairmans Statement Business Review 06 Chief Executives Review 08 Strategy and Key Performance Brel & Kjr Vibro BTG Group Beta LaserMike Indicators Machine protection, condition monitoring Blades, rods and equipment for metering Non-contact, laser-based dimensional 10 Customer-Focused Product and performance monitoring solutions.
doctoring: lab online analysers and inline measuring and flaw detection.
com process control sensors for the pulp and www.
com 12 Operating Review paper industry.
com 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Governance 34 Board of Directors Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Engineering Servomex 36 Directors Report Ultraviolet curing systems for paints, Sensors for online measurement and Gas analysers, systems, transducers and 42 Directors Remuneration Report coatings, inks and adhesives, serving control of moisture, composition, film expert service capability for industries a diverse array of industrial thickness and coat weight in a range of worldwide, including hydrocarbon Financial Statements manufacturing markets.
processing, industrial gas and OEM markets.
com 51 Consolidated Statement of Income 52 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Industrial Controls 53 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 54 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to the shareholders of Spectris plc.
The company, its 55 Consolidated Statement of directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this Cash Flows document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Microscan Red Lion Controls The annual report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and 56 Notes to the Accounts Track, trace and control solutions employing Operator interfaces, protocol converters, financial condition of the company.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future events and 93 Company Balance Sheet machine vision, lighting, RFID, barcode 2D panel meters, signal conditioners and circumstances can cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and no reliance should be placed 94 Notes to the Companys Accounts on them.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of reading, verification, software.
this annual report and the company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
net in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
