Operating Review In-line Instrumentation In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
Overview Highlights In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring Service and consumables and on-line controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
Our prove resilient products and applications provide precision measurement in challenging operating Infrastructure development environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety, and improved yield.
projects in China, India and The operating companies in this segment are Beta LaserMike, Brel & Kjr Vibro, emerging regions continue BTG Group, Fusion UV Systems, NDC Infrared Engineering, and Servomex.
to drive demand Market drivers Good demand from power and The growing requirement to improve process manufacturing productivity and drive alternative energy projects down costs in an increasingly competitive global environment has led to greater demand for process instrumentation.
End-user markets are facilities with critical plant Pulp and paper performance assets such as paper mills and converting plants where downtime and lost production robust due to growth in tissue are costly.
Environmental issues are also key drivers for process instrumentation in applications these industries.
The oil and gas industry continues to focus on enhancing productivity and is seeing growing demand from the industrialising economies.
Increasing power costs have led energy-intensive industries such as pulp and paper to install new instrumentation as they seek production efficiencies.
Investment in infrastructure is also driving demand for process control solutions worldwide.
The growth in demand for renewable resources, for example alternative energy sources such as hydro-electric and wind power, as well as the need to meet regulations on reducing emissions, has led to an increase in demand for process control solutions.
Safety is also a priority in these industries, where it is a requirement to monitor emissions and other harmful substances in order to comply with increased health and safety regulation.
Segment performance Sales in In-line Instrumentation declined by 2% decline of 13% at constant currencies to 227.5 million.
Operating profit decreased by 3% to 41.5 million and, at 18.2%, 227.5m operating margins remained in line with the prior year 2008: 18.3%.
The high content of service and consumables in this segment resulted in margins being Sales largely unaffected.
Orders were weak from original equipment manufacturers.
However, sales of service, 41.5m spare parts and consumables, which are a key feature of this segment, were more resilient compared with sales of new products and systems, as customers focused Operating profit on maintaining existing facilities.
The pulp and paper industry experienced some capacity closures and widespread temporary production curtailments, particularly in Europe, as paper producers fide-stocked in response to reduced demand.
Nevertheless, sales of BTGs high performance creping blades to tissue manufacturers grew throughout the year.
16 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements CASE STuDy Fusions UV curing equipment has improved reliability and DunMORE reduced maintenance costs for Dunmore Corporation, a CORPORATIOn global manufacturer of metallised, coated, and laminated films for a wide variety of applications.
Dunmore replaced its arc lamp system with an automated UV system, which takes up around half the space, simplifies the operators job, and requires less frequent maintenance.
Fusions UV system has significantly improved the reliability of our production process and as the equipment requires less maintenance than our previous system, we have also reduced our operating costs.
Paul Sullivan, Director of Engineering, Dunmore Corporation nEw PRODuCT DuROBlADE-VElVET BTGs new creping blade, DurobladeVelvet, has been specifically designed for tissue manufacturers.
Its plasma-sprayed engineered ceramic tip produces a softer and bulkier tissue and has a longer operation time than other ceramic blades, due to its resistance to surface damage.
This results in fewer blade changes and, consequently, an increase in daily tissue production.
BTG launched a number of new products designed to help paper manufacturers reduce their costs and improve paper properties, including a range of optical sensors for measuring pulp consistency and a new high performance creping blade which improves machine uptime whilst enhancing tissue quality.
In the energy, refining and utilities sector, customer investment provided good demand for both Brel & Kjr Vibro and Servomex.
Within the gas-based process industries, customer requirements are for higher reliability of equipment and reduced maintenance, and Servomex launched a number of new products during the year which meet this demand and also provide improved measurement accuracy and lower cost of ownership.
In July, the company secured its first order to supply the awardwinning Servotough Oxy oxygen analysers to China.
In September, Servomex launched the Servotough Laser analyser, the first product to benefit from the strategic partnership with Norsk Elektro Optikk NEO.
The result is an analyser that combines NEOs precision technologies within a rugged Servomex design, suitable for a wide range of emissions control and process and combustion control applications.
17 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Operating Review In-line Instrumentation continued Demand for Brel & Kjr Vibros remote monitoring systems and safety systems in the power market led to a number of orders for its solutions and its Compass 6000 predictive monitoring system was installed in a number of large oil and gas plants.
18.2% The market for renewable energy also grew strongly, with the company receiving significant orders for large wind farms and in December Brel & Kjr Vibro entered Operating margins into an agreement with Suzlon, one of the worlds largest wind turbine manufacturers, to supply remote condition monitoring solutions for their range of wind turbines.
Increasing interest in hybrid vehicles resulted in a number of orders for NDC for battery manufacturing applications and new developments in LCD and solar cell technology brought orders for both NDCs measurement systems and Fusions UV curing systems.
In addition, a number of developments within the display market have led to increased demand for UV curing systems, in particular for the manufacture of LCDs used in items such as televisions, e-book readers and satellite navigation systems.
In the converting industry, increased demand for packaged food products benefited NDC, with the company seeing strong orders from food manufacturers for its sensors.
A new blown film system was launched for measuring and controlling the multi-layer barrier films used in complex food packaging.
Beta LaserMikes LaserSpeed product continued to perform well and demand for products to measure metals and cable remained strong as the Chinese economy continued to expand.
The LaserSpeeds greater accuracy of measurement compared with conventional methods achieves material savings of 12%, often resulting in payback periods of just a few weeks.
Beta LaserMike also launched the Centerscan non-contact eccentricity gauge for wire and cable applications.
During the year, Fusion received its first order for the commercial UV coating of steel.
This new application enables rolls of steel to be produced with special coating qualities, for example stainless steel coatings with anti-fingerprint properties which are particularly suitable for the domestic appliance market.
In the healthcare market, Beta LaserMike secured a number of important orders for its Ultrascan product for medical tubing applications.
These applications require measuring wall thicknesses around one-half the width of a human hair.
Also in the healthcare market, Servomex launched the Paracube Micro oxygen sensor.
This is the latest addition to Servomexs portfolio of innovative gas sensors and provides oxygen analysis for critical care ventilators, anatomical anaesthesia, patient monitoring and other life-critical healthcare applications.
18 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements CASE STuDy Servomex is designing and supplying a complete gas lA SEDA fide monitoring system for a new PTA Pure Terephthalic Acid BARCElOnA plant being built in Portugal by Artenius, a subsidiary of chemical company La Seda fide Barcelona.
The plant is expected to open in 2010 and will produce 700,000 tonnes a year of PTA a primary material used in the manufacture of plastic packaging.
Servomex will supply seven photometric process gas analysers and seven process oxygen analysers, providing an accurate and reliable solution for monitoring of PTA processes and ensuring rigorous safety procedures are met.
nEw APPlICATIOn BATTERy COATInGS AnD FIlM The new system will help limit our environmental impact and deliver an important cost reduction in High density, rechargeable lithium building additional infrastructure for the new plant.
batteries are everywhere in daily life, from flashlights to mobile phones and laptops, Rafael Espaol, President, La Seda fide Barcelona and also in vehicles ranging from electric bicycles to cars and buses.
These advanced battery technologies require specialised coating and film processes to maintain Government-funded infrastructure development in China and India led to robust performance and quality.
NDCs sensors demand for optical fibre and related cable products for the telecommunications are used by manufacturers of lithium industry, driven by 3G technology and fibre to the home, which benefited Fusion batteries to provide precise measurement and Beta LaserMike.
Beta LaserMikes systems are used in optical fibre production and control of the coatings for anodes to measure the fibre to an accuracy of 0.2 microns, taking 2,500 measurements and cathodes, and of the micro-porous per second, and the company also provides a laser-based flaw detector.
film that insulates these electrodes when assembled into a battery cell.
Outlook Market conditions are improving in some of this segments end markets.
Demand in the upstream energy and hydrocarbon processing markets should remain in line with that experienced in 2009.
A sustained recovery in pulp and paper and other converting industries will depend on a broader recovery in consumer demand for their end products.
We anticipate that service, spare parts and consumables will continue to provide a resilient revenue base for this segment.
19 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
