Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 34 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 1 John Hughes, Chairman John Hughes was appointed to the Board in 2007 and became Chairman in 2008.
John was previously executive vice-president and chief operating officer of defence, aerospace and electronic systems company Thales Group SA and is currently nonexecutive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc and Telecity Group plc, non-executive deputy chairman of Parity Group plc, and a non-executive director of Chloride Group plc and Nice Systems Limited, a company quoted on NASDAQ.
John is an adviser to private equity firm Advent International and also serves as an Ambassador of the Alzheimers Society.
2 John OHiggins, Chief Executive John OHiggins joined Spectris in 2006.
Prior to joining Spectris, he was with Honeywell, most recently as President of Automation and Control Solutions, Asia Pacific.
He began his career with Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
John has engineering Nomination committee degrees from University College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA John Hughes Chairman from INSEAD.
Peter Chambr John OHiggins 3 Clive Watson, Group finance director Anthony Reading Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006.
He was previously at Borealis, a leading provider John Warren of plastics solutions, where he was chief financial officer and executive vice president for business support.
Prior to this, he was group finance director at Thorn Lighting Remuneration committee Group and before that group finance director Europe with Black & Decker.
Clive is Anthony Reading Chairman a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and the Peter Chambr Chartered Institute of Tax and holds a Bachelors degree in Commerce and Accounting John Hughes from the University of Birmingham.
He is a non-executive director of Spirax-Sarco John Warren Engineering plc.
Audit committee 4 Anthony Reading MBE, Non-executive director John Warren Chairman Tony Reading was appointed to the Board in 2004.
He was previously a director of Peter Chambr Tomkins plc and chairman and chief executive of Tomkins Corporation, USA, and a Anthony Reading non-executive director of George Wimpey plc.
He is currently a non-executive director of Laird plc, Taylor Wimpey plc and e2v technologies plc.
Senior independent director Anthony Reading 5 Peter Chambr, Non-executive director Peter Chambr was appointed to the Board in 2006.
He is chairman of Axellia Pharmaceuticals, ApaTech and 7TM Pharma, all private companies, and a nonexecutive director of BTG plc.
He is also an adviser to private equity company 3i.
Peter was formerly chief executive officer of Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc and prior to that was chief operating officer of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive of Bespak plc.
6 John Warren, Non-executive director John Warren was appointed to the Board in 2006.
From 2000 to 2005 John was group finance director at WH Smith PLC.
Prior to that he was with United Biscuits Plc for 19 years, latterly as group finance director.
He has been a non-executive director of Rexam Plc, RAC plc, Arla Foods UK plc and BPP Holdings plc and is currently interim chairman of Uniq plc and a non-executive director of The Rank Group Plc and Bovis Homes Group PLC.
7 Jim Webster, Business group director Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined Spectris in 1993.
He is responsible for the operational supervision of a number of the groups trading companies.
He was previously general manager of the European Wire and Cable Division of Raychem Corporation.
He is a non-executive director of Raymarine plc.
8 Roger Stephens, Head of commercial and company secretary Roger Stephens is an economics graduate and chartered company secretary.
Prior to joining Spectris in 1997, he held commercial roles in the power and construction sectors, specialising in contract negotiation, litigation and claims resolution, IP exploitation and property development.
35 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
