Operating Review Test and Measurement Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for product design optimisation and manufacturing control, principally to the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics industries.
Overview Highlights Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and Dramatic cut in spending software for product design optimisation and manufacturing control, principally to by automotive customers the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics industries.
For customers in the throughout the year automotive and aerospace industries, our products and applications help them to Good demand from aerospace design and test new products whilst reducing time to market.
In consumer electronics, market, especially for satellite our equipment and software enable customers to refine the performance and accuracy of their products.
Further applications are in the environmental monitoring market, testing where the desire for higher standards of community comfort drives increasing demand.
Operating profit impacted by The operating companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration volume and restructuring costs and HBM.
Acquisition of Lochard brings Market drivers leadership in environmental Product testing and quality control are the principal drivers of demand in the test monitoring and measurement sector.
Prototype testing is a costly, but unavoidable, stage in the development of many consumer durable products.
R&D engineers must ensure not only that consumer requirements are met within shorter development cycle times, but also compliance with ever-increasing environmental, safety and efficiency targets.
In addition to product development, increasing regulation on noise levels for example the EU directives on noise regulation for airports, cities and workplaces is also driving demand for our test and measurement applications.
Segment performance Sales in Test and Measurement increased by 5% organic decline of 22% at constant currencies to 267.1 million, with the recent acquisitions contributing 42.0 million 267.
The decline in the automotive industry was the principal driver behind the decrease in organic revenue.
As a result of the lower sales and the fact that a Sales significant portion of the restructuring and post-acquisition integration activities were incurred in this segment 9.7 million, as sales channels and facilities were consolidated, operating profit was down by 95% to 1.4 million.
Operating margins 1.4m were 0.5% compared with 11.7% in the prior year period.
Around half of the decline in operating margins relates to the dramatic reduction in volume, with the majority of Operating profit the remainder attributable to the cost of the restructuring and post-acquisition integration activities referred to above.
Demand from the automotive industry declined during 2009, as customers cancelled or delayed spending on research and development projects.
Nevertheless, activity was more resilient from automotive manufacturers in emerging markets, for example India and China, and from companies developing hybrid vehicles.
Both the LAN-XI hardware platform and the new PULSE Reflex noise analysis post-processing software generated significant interest among automotive and aerospace customers alike, with a number of orders received for the combined system.
Following the success of HBMs QuantumX system, launched with BMW in 2008, this system has now attracted significant interest from other vehicle manufacturers and also from customers involved in railway infrastructure services as well as the marine, aerospace and electrical test markets.
Demand also continued to grow for Brel & Kjrs Noise Vibration Harshness Simulator, with orders from Ford and Nissan.
Ford is the first vehicle manufacturer in North America to use the simulator for vehicle design optimisation and considers it to be a key technology which helps the company to keep its innovative edge in vehicle development.
14 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements CASE STuDy The space industry has probably the most demanding EuROPEAn requirements for vibration testing in the world.
The huge SPACE AGEnCy stresses involved in launching a satellite from a rocket mean rigorous testing must be carried out on the ground beforehand.
The European Space Research and Technology Centre, part of the European Space Agency, has installed an LDS quad shaker system for vibration testing.
The system was used to test Herschel, the largest space telescope of its kind.
Launched in May, Herschel is studying the chemical composition of the atmosphere around celestial bodies and is already sending back exciting images.
The new facility will save time in the critical path of CASE STuDy the mechanical test campaign and, therefore, will BERnInA AnD GlACIER ExPRESS reduce the testing price for our programme.
HBMs data acquisition system, QuantumX, Alexandre Popovitch, Head of Test Facilities and Test Methods, is used by TV SD Rail on the Rhaetian European Space Research and Technology Centre Railway operator of the Bernina and Glacier Express in Switzerland to carry out stress tests on the transporter wagons which carry vehicles through the 20km long Vereina In the aerospace industry, the LDS vibration test systems business saw good demand tunnel at an altitude of over 1000m.
These powerful shakers are designed for the most demanding tests are designed to measure the train vibration testing and are built for testing large payloads such as satellites and under various loading conditions to ensure aerospace assemblies with masses of several tonnes.
the safety of the transported passengers and vehicles.
These tests are only now possible because the QuantumX modules Demand for our environmental noise monitoring services, which include the recentlyare small enough to be installed under the acquired Lochard airport noise monitoring systems, was robust, with a number of flat car transporter at various locations, orders secured from airports around the world.
In July, Los Angeles World Airports with measurement data transmitted to the launched a new online flight tracking and aircraft noise monitoring system using control compartment at the end of the train.
Lochards WebTrak software, which allows them to manage better relations with their neighbouring communities.
In November, Brel & Kjr extended the airport noise monitoring concept to urban noise applications with the release of a newly-developed system, Sentinel, aimed at businesses which need to conform to local community noise directives.
Outlook 2009 was a year of consolidation and integration of the acquisitions in this segment.
With the restructuring now substantially complete, we will see the benefits of this during 2010.
Although we remain cautious about the prospects for the automotive industry, we do expect to see some recovery in spending on research and development in this market.
The market for urban and airport noise monitoring is expected to continue to grow.
15 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
