Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Our objective is to deliver shareholder value over the long term by supplying  solutions for our customers.
Focusing on operational excellence Strengthening market positions Strategy We continue to focus on improving all through innovation aspects of our business through a range We invest around 67% of sales each of actions including: process efficiencies, year in R&D in order to maintain our value pricing, optimising the business mix, market-leading positions.
We work closely cost competitiveness, designing products with customers to develop solutions for low-cost production, reducing which are tailored to their specific inventory and improving supply chain requirements, based on standard management.
platforms customised through high added value applications engineering.
Much of our technology is proprietary and protected by patents or process knowhow.
New products and applications may be developed in house, by acquiring bolt-on product lines or by collaboration and licensing agreements for proprietary technology in partnership with universities and other institutions.
Progress Internal processes improved, taking On a reported basis, expenditure was cost out of the business 58.2 million in 2009, or 7% of sales Lean manufacturing programmes A significant number of new products and just-in-time projects being were introduced during the year implemented at a number of sites throughout the group Low-cost sourcing initiatives continue to drive down cost of current and new products Key Performance Sales Return on sales Sales growth is a measure of how we are Return on sales is a measure of improving Indicators growing our business organically.
We aim profitability in our business.
Return on to achieve year-on-year growth in sales, sales is defined as adjusted operating We monitor progress against on a like-for-like basis, which excludes the profit as a percentage of sales.
Our the delivery of our strategic effects of currency translation and intention is to achieve a mid-teens return acquisitions or divestments.
on sales margin on average throughout goals via four key performance the cycle.
This was achieved in 2007. indicators.
In 2009, the adverse Our aim is to sustain or improve margins Total sales growth, continuing businesses market conditions severely over time.
% curtailed our ability to make 07 3 Return on sales, continuing businesses progress on our KPIs.
08 19 % 09 0 07 15.8 08 15.0 Organic sales growth, continuing businesses, 09 10.1 at constant currencies % In 2009, the impact of the downturn in 07 6 08 3 the automotive market severely impacted 09 16 performance in the Test and Measurement segment.
Excepting this segment, return on sales was 15.0%.
08 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Increasing regional expansion with a Growing existing businesses Building our presence in key strategic focus on emerging markets through acquisition growth areas, both organically and We seek to grow our businesses around We seek to enhance the growth potential through acquisition the world, with particular emphasis on of our businesses by pursuing an active We aim to grow our existing businesses emerging markets such as China, India but disciplined approach to acquisitions, organically by developing new products and Latin America.
We continue to focusing on businesses which are strong as well as pursuing opportunities for establish sales and support facilities in players in specific application areas where growth in new markets, such as nanothese regions so that we are able to there are significant barriers to entry.
Our support our global customers wherever investment in R&D enables us to they are based.
maintain our leading market positions and acquisitions are targeted at both existing and new markets.
On a constant currency basis, sales Invested a total of 26.6 million in Product development programmes to China in 2009 grew by 16% two acquisitions in 2009: focused on building positions in our Recent acquisitions provide an Lochard, a company based in key market segments opportunity to develop our channels Australia providing environmental Acquisitions made further strengthen globally, particularly in emerging noise and air quality monitoring our positions in the pharmaceuticals markets services and life sciences market and the Investments in infrastructure and MicroSafe, an Italian supplier of growing environmental monitoring service channels to support our microbial detection and monitoring market customers globally products to global pharmaceutical Aftersales, service and consumables manufacturers are an important part of our business, representing 27% of sales in 2009, compared with 24% in the prior year Cash conversion Earnings per share We focus on cash generation and use Earnings per share is a commonly used Adjusted earnings per share is defined as cash conversion as a performance measure of financial performance for the ratio of adjusted net profit for the measure as we believe cash represents an shareholders.
We aim to achieve growth year to the weighted average number effective measure of the quality of our in adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted of ordinary shares outstanding during earnings.
Our target is to deliver high earnings excludes certain non-operational the year.
cash conversion of operating profit in items as defined by management in each financial year.
Cash conversion is Note 3. defined as operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
