Directors Report Also included in the special business of the 2010 Annual General The directors present their report and accounts for the year Meeting are proposals to renew the directors authority to allot ended 31 December 2009. shares up to prescribed limits.
Principal activities At 22 February 2010 interests notified to the company in Spectris designs, develops and markets  accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency instrumentation and controls.
The businesses are grouped into Rules comprised: four segments: Materials Analysis, Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Controls for management Black Rock Inc. and segmental reporting purposes.
Further details of the trading 7,737,236 shares 6.70% material interest companies within each segment can be found in the Operating Review pages 12 to 21.
Developments in the groups business Massachusetts Financial Services Company activities are discussed in the Chairmans Statement page 4, 7,412,766 shares 6.42% material interest the Chief Executives Review page 6 and the Business Review pages 6 to 33.
F & C Asset Management plc 5,840,099 shares 5.06% material interest Acquisitions During the year two acquisitions were made.
Brel & Kjaer Ameriprise Financial Inc. Sound & Vibration acquired the entire share capital of Lochard 5,747,326 shares 4.98% material interest Limited, a market leader in the provision of airport noise management solutions based in Melbourne, Australia.
The AXA SA acquisition extends the groups capabilities in environmental 5,721,460 shares 4.96% material interest monitoring systems.
Particle Measuring Systems acquired from an Italian subsidiary of 3M the assets and business of MicroSafe, Standard Life Investments Limited a supplier of microbial detection and monitoring products, 5,706,429 shares 4.94% material interest based near Rome.
The total cost of acquisitions during the year was 26.6 million, including acquisition expenses as well as the Legal & General Group Plc estimated fair value of deferred and contingent consideration 4,603,565 shares 3.99% material interest expected to be paid in future years, including cash acquired.
Takeovers directive Disposals Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which There were no material disposals during the year.
implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain additional information.
The disclosures not Share capital covered elsewhere in this Annual Report are: The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares of 5p each: each share carries the right to one vote at general The companys Articles of Association Articles give power to meetings of the company.
The authorised and issued share the Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit capital of the company, together with movements in the themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting companys issued share capital during the year, are shown following their appointment and for re-election where they have in Note 24 on page 85.
The Articles of Association of the been a director at each of the preceding two Annual General company, available on the companys website, contain Meetings and were not appointed or re-appointed by the provisions governing the ownership and transfer of shares.
company at, or since, either such meeting.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are At the 2009 Annual General Meeting shareholders authorised available to view on the companys website.
the directors to make market purchases of the companys ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 12,500,000 shares, representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of The Board of directors is responsible for the management of the the company, and to either cancel the shares or hold them as business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the Treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes, the transferred for the purposes of the companys share plans, companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
The depending on the best interests of the companys shareholders Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the at the time.
At the close of business on 22 February 2010, the companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of which issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the 9,487,791 were held in Treasury.
During the year 200,920 shares Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each were transferred out of Treasury to meet the companys year at the Annual General Meeting.
obligations under its share plans and no shares were cancelled out of Treasury.
An authority to make further market purchases There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or of the companys ordinary shares, if believed appropriate, will be terminate upon a change of control of the group following a sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting although takeover, such as bank loan agreements and company share the Board has no present intention of so doing.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of 36 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity of Officers their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
provision contained in the companys Articles which were In addition, there is a service contract between the company approved by shareholders in May 2005. and one of its directors which provides for compensation for loss of office or employment following a change of control of Auditors the group please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors on page 45 for further explanation.
It is also possible that and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will funding arrangements for the groups defined benefit pension be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
arrangements would need to be enhanced following a change of control if that resulted in a weakening of the relevant Annual General Meeting employer covenant.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the companys offices on Wednesday 19 May 2010 at 11.30 a. m. is Dividend contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying Results for the group are set out in the consolidated statement this report.
of income on page 51 and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend of 17.85 pence per ordinary share is proposed for the Corporate Governance year to 31 December 2009 2008: 17.00 pence.
With the interim dividend, this makes a total for the year of 24.25 pence Combined Code statement of compliance 2008: 23.4 pence.
The final dividend will be paid on 25 June Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate 2010 to shareholders on the register on 4 June 2010.
Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined Code Research and development sets out principles and provisions relating to the good Expenditure committed to research and development is focused governance of companies.
on new product development, applications engineering and process integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except Corporate governance has been and remains the responsibility where the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for of the whole Board.
This statement describes how the company capitalisation.
In the year to 31 December 2009, amounts applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the expensed totalled 58.2 million 2008: 57.0 million, and no Combined Code during 2009.
The Board considers that it was expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation 2008: nil.
throughout the year and continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, Fixed assets save that: Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book values, the directors believe that the differences are not For the period 1 January to 18 May 2009, a majority of the material.
members of the nomination committee were not independent non-executive directors as required by provision Payment of suppliers A.
At their meeting on 19 May 2009, the Board resolved The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure to make the nomination committee compliant with the that terms of payment accord with contractual and legal Combined Code by expanding its membership to include all obligations.
The company had no trade creditors at the non-executive directors, so that a majority of the nomination year end 2008: nil.. committees members from that date are independent non-executive directors.
Directors The directors of the company are named on pages 34 and 35.
Board composition and procedures The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the Peter Chambr, Clive Watson and Jim Webster retire from the year to consider developments in relation to the companys Board by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Anthony strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results Reading will retire from the Board following the 2010 AGM and operational and business issues.
In particular it deals with having served two three-year terms.
A process to identify his those matters reserved to it for decision, including the replacement has commenced.
acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal of The directors total remuneration for the year and their directors and Board and senior management succession interests in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries planning.
Additional meetings are convened as required to at 31 December 2009 are disclosed in the Directors consider specific topics requiring immediate decision.
Usually, Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49. two meetings each year are held at operating locations and encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
In accordance with Section 236 of the Companies Act 2006 the Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to senior directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity provision management at trading company level over which the executive entered into between the company and its directors and officers directors exercise supervision.
All directors receive detailed which was in force at the date of approval of this report.
This progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
37 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Directors Report continued Board and committee meeting attendance 2009 The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and three non-executive directors.
The Board considers Remuneration Audit Nomination its non-executive directors Peter Chambr, Anthony Reading Board Committee Committee Committee and John Warren to be independent, in that none of them are Total meetings during or have ever been holders of an executive office with the year 17 5 3 1 company.
The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior J L M Hughes independent director are held by separate individuals and, in Chairman 17 4 N A 1 accordance with the Combined Code, the Board has adopted A J Reading senior written profiles for the first two of these.
The non-executive independent director 17 5 3 1 directors have all had senior experience in other organisations P A Chambr 14 4 3 N A and offer independent judgement on Board matters.
The J A Warren 17 5 3 N A Chairmans other significant listed company interests are as non-executive chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc and J E OHiggins Telecity Group plc, non-executive deputy chairman of Parity Chief Executive 17 N A N A 1 Group plc and non-executive director of Chloride Group plc.
C G Watson 17 N A N A N A J C Webster 17 N A N A N A The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations to the company are unaffected by these directorships.
The sole Nomination Committee meeting was held before the change in composition of the Committee to include all non-executive directors.
There are procedures for individual Board members to receive induction and training as appropriate and to solicit independent Board appointments and performance evaluation professional advice at the groups expense where specific The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, Chief expertise is required in the course of exercising their duties.
Executive and all non-executive directors.
It is chaired by the All directors have access to the company secretary, who is Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes succession when the senior independent director takes the chair.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the new director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and present for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
committees, notably the nomination, remuneration and audit Candidates are then identified for interview, external search committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are consultants being engaged as part of this process.
The published on the companys website and the following committee also makes recommendations to the Board regarding additional documents are available to shareholders on the re-election and or re-appointment of any director.
Similar application to the company secretary: selection processes apply for the appointment of a chairman.
schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its terms responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the of reference can be found on the companys website.
non-executive directors: relations with shareholders: The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed by performance evaluation: the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and procedure for taking independent professional advice.
company secretarys performances are appraised annually against objectives established for the prior year.
The The Board has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries contributions of the Chairman and non-executive directors are and Administrators Guidance Note of September 2009 on reviewed in advance of the conclusion of their initial three-year Board Meeting Etiquette.
term, by the senior independent director and the Chairman respectively, prior to their being proposed to shareholders for Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a re-election.
Additionally, the Chairman holds periodic meetings situation where he has, or may have, a direct or indirect interest with the non-executive directors only and, led by the senior that conflicts, or may conflict, with the companys interests.
independent director, the non-executives have the opportunity During the year, in accordance with the powers and duties of to meet at least annually without the Chairman present.
directors laid down in the companys Articles, directors were asked to declare any such conflict or potential conflict of interest An evaluation of the operation and performance of the Board to the Board for the Boards authorisation of a matter which was conducted in 2009.
The process included submissions from otherwise may have given rise to a conflict of interest.
No such all Board members in response to a structured questionnaire conflicts have arisen.
covering a range of issues, which were considered by the 38 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements book-keeping or other services related to the accounting Chairman and the senior independent director and then records or financial statements of Spectris plc: reviewed by the Board as a whole.
financial information systems design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or Shareholder relations contribution in kind reports: Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional actuarial services: shareholders and divulges such information as is permitted internal audit outsourcing services: within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of management functions or human resources: presentations made after results announcements may be broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking accessed by individual investors on the group website, services: www.
legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all other Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination taxation services above which all engagements are subject to committees are available to answer questions.
The results of prior approval by the audit committee.
proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
These The Head of Internal Audit is employed by the group to perform are then published on the group website.
internal control reviews across the group according to a work programme agreed by the committee.
The Head of Internal The Board is kept informed of the views of major shareholders Audit is assisted in this by two further internal auditors.
The through periodic reports from the Chief Executive and the nature and scope of the groups internal control review companys joint brokers Bank of America Merrill Lynch and RBS resources is reviewed by the audit committee annually.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have committee receives reports twice a year on the results of internal the opportunity to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the chairman of the audit committee and may meet with him in Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys the absence of executive management.
issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the Chairman, the senior independent director or new nonThe committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of executive directors.
Such meetings would supplement if their auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, from the market in their risk necessary, but not replace, the regular meetings with the evaluation and planning and has concluded that the risk is small.
Chief Executive and group finance director.
In the event that the companys auditor did exit the market, a replacement appointment would be made from audit firms of Audit committee equivalent standing.
KPMG Audit Plc were appointed as the The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors and companys auditors on 12 May 1998.
The position of auditor to is chaired by John Warren who has recent and relevant financial the company is kept under regular review, but given the experience as the former group finance director of WH Smith challenging economic environment the company has operated PLC.
The committee meets at least three times each year to under during the year, KPMG Audit Plcs in-depth understanding consider the effectiveness of the groups internal controls, of the companys operations is considered by the committee to policies and procedures, the process of internal audit and the be of benefit to both the company and its shareholders.
outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings are normally attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the finance director, the company secretary and the external auditor.
All executive directors attend the year end audit committee meeting and processes requiring the disclosure of relevant Internal controls information by individual directors to the auditor have been adopted.
The committee confers with the auditor without the The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of attendance of executive directors.
Its terms of reference can be internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, found on the companys website.
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives and can provide only The committee is responsible for making recommendations to reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor misstatement or loss.
and then for approving the external auditors remuneration, terms of engagement and scope of work.
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal control by the Financial Reporting Council Internal Control: The committee has also adopted procedures governing and Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, services.
The following services are precluded: evaluating and managing assessed significant risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for the year under review and 39 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Directors Report continued has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, the foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the that this process has been reviewed by the Board during the going concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
year and that the group accords with the guidance.
The Board affirms the importance it attaches to the continuous review and Business Review application of the guidance, the regular and systematic The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business assessment of the risks facing the group and the value of Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, embedding risk management and internal control systems and which should be treated as forming part of this report within its business processes.
The group has an internal audit by reference, is included in the following sections of the function which reviews the design and effectiveness of internal annual report: controls across the groups operations.
The processes which the Board and the audit committee have Chief Executives Review on pages 6 and 7. applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of Group Overview on pages 2 and 3. internal controls are summarised below: Operating Review on pages 12 to 21, which includes a review of the external environment.
an established process is in place whereby each business unit Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 26 regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group and 27. significance.
Each business unit is required to document the Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on management and mitigating actions in place and proposed: pages 12 to 21. regular review of the status of risks and corresponding Financial Review on pages 22 to 25. mitigating actions ensure that risk management is embedded Corporate Citizenship on pages 28 to 33 which includes the in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as companys policy on treatment of its employees.
well as in the annual strategic planning cycle: the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice annual report and the financial statements yearly by the audit committee: The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to and the group and parent company financial statements, in the groups strategic objectives which are not addressed accordance with applicable law and regulations.
within the business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing and mitigating these risks: Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent annual financial plans for each business unit, significant company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that capital investments or contractual commitments and major law they are required to prepare the group financial statements acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards approval by the Board: IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the to prepare the parent company financial statements in minimum standards and procedures to be applied in relation accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law to those risk areas which are regarded as significant in a UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
group context: a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual Under company law the directors must not approve the financial and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair documented trail of accountability from business unit view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of The necessary actions are taken by the audit committee to the group and parent company financial statements, the remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of directors are required to: the internal control system: the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant select suitable accounting policies and then apply risks.
The group finance director provides the Board with them consistently: monthly financial information which includes key make judgements and estimates that are reasonable performance indicators and information on the groups and prudent: operating segments.
Regular reports on significant legal for the group financial statements, state whether they have issues and insurance matters are received from the been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: company secretary.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Going concern subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial the parent company financial statements.
facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group 40 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent annual report companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and loss of the company and the undertakings included in the other irregularities.
consolidation taken as a whole: and the information that is cross-referred from the Business Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Review section of the Directors Report includes a fair review responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors of the development and performance of the business and the Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the that complies with that law and those regulations.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the By order of the Board.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this R J Stephens Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Secretary there is no relevant audit information of which the companys 23 February 2010 auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
41 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc
