Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Our Global Markets Our sales and service offices are located around the world, supporting customers wherever they are based.
North America Europe Asia This remains an important Recent acquisitions have been Initiatives to build our region for us, with six of our targeted primarily at companies presence and distribution businesses headquartered here.
in developed markets, providing channels continue in this an opportunity for us to key region, with Particle develop our channels globally.
Measuring Systems opening a new technology centre in Japan during the year.
Europe North America 41% Asia excluding China 23% China 18% 11% Latin America 3% Figures are % of total reported group sales China Sales to China were helped both by continued industrial expansion and government incentives.
The latter Latin America was particularly noticeable on civil Latin America is a key emerging engineering projects, for example market.
We appointed a number construction materials.
Research and of new distributors to improve development applications also saw our presence in this region.
increased funding from the government.
05 Annual report and accounts 2009 Spectris plc Chief Executives Review Despite the difficult operating environment encountered during the year, we continued to make further progress in strengthening our businesses in order to deliver shareholder value over the long term.
Introduction The tough market conditions experienced in the second half of 2008 continued into 2009, with the global economic downturn resulting in low production levels in many of the industries we serve and more limited visibility of orders than normal.
However, in the last quarter of the year we began to see an improvement in demand in many of our markets.
For the full year, sales were flat on a reported basis.
Acquisitions contributed 6% and the beneficial effects from currency were 10%: on a constant currency organic basis, therefore, sales decreased by 16%.
Weakness in the automotive market, where sales were down 26% across the group, particularly affected the Test and Measurement segment, which has the largest exposure to this market.
Elsewhere, across the markets we serve, demand was strongest from energy and utilities customers, followed by the aerospace sector.
Demand was also good from pulp and paper and academic research markets.
On a geographic basis, sales at constant currencies grew in China, Brazil, South Korea and Africa.
Our actions from the beginning of the year in response to declining markets focused on restructuring and accelerating post-acquisition integration.
These activities included combining production facilities, streamlining sales channels, consolidating hardware John OHiggins and software platforms to reduce engineering and development costs and speeding Chief Executive up time to market.
Total restructuring and post-acquisition integration costs for the year were 14.0 million, of which nearly 10 million were incurred in the Test and Measurement segment.
The benefit from these actions was 15.0 million, which was supplemented by temporary cost savings of 27.6 million.
We expect 16.0 million of restructuring benefits in 2010 over and above 2009.
As a consequence of the restructuring, which was substantially completed in 2009, we have improved our operational gearing.
This provides us with a solid platform to benefit from growth in 2010, notwithstanding the reversal of some, or all, of the temporary cost savings realised in 2009.
Operating profit after restructuring declined by one-third, due to the volume reduction and the one-off charge of 14.0 million described above.
As a result, operating margins were 10.1%.
With the exception of Test and Measurement, operating margins in the other three business segments, in aggregate, were 15.0%.
Strategy Despite the challenging operating environment encountered during the year, we continued to make further progress in strengthening our businesses in order to deliver shareholder value over the long term.
The key elements of our strategy and the progress we have made are as follows: Focusing on operational excellence During the year we focused on improving our own internal processes in order to take cost out of the business wherever practical, whilst preserving our ability to take advantage when markets recover.
Lean manufacturing programmes and just-in-time systems are being implemented on further product manufacturing lines at a number of our businesses.
Further work was undertaken in respect of inventory management processes.
Low cost sourcing initiatives also continue to drive down the cost of both current and new products.
06 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2009
