our strategy Our vision To be THE global leader in growing and emerging test and measurement markets.
Our strategy Focus on growing and emerging markets Spirent closely monitors the ever changing trends across the communications landscape, strategically reallocating resources to address growing and emerging markets.
Invest in our solutions portfolio Spirent continues to enhance its product and service offerings by bringing the most advanced test solutions to market.
5M By attracting and retaining the brightest individuals, Spirent leads the industry through innovation.
2008 45.3m Delivering the Right Solutions at the Right Time Delivering the right solutions at the right time allows our customers to develop and launch new products and services in the shortest amount of time.
Global customer reach Our world class sales and service organisations enable Spirent to build strong customer relationships across the globe.
8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW in action Verizon Wireless selects Spirent for LTE Spirent ranked global market leader for device testing solutions Ethernet testing Verizon Wireless has chosen Spirent as During 2009 Spirent was recognised as the first provider of testing solutions for the market leader for Ethernet testing by the certification of devices for use on research firm Frost & Sullivan.
This top Verizons 4G LTE network.
Spirent test ranking, according to the firms World equipment will help Verizon assure that Gigabit Ethernet Test Equipment Market LTE devices live up to their performance report, reflects the sale by Spirent of expectations with the industrys first LTE more Ethernet test ports than any and multi-mode LTE with CDMA or UMTS other vendor.
Spirent Spirents portfolio of test solutions is helps Verizon control operational expenses the most comprehensive on the market and maximise revenues from new extending from the lab to the live network LTE services.
and into the subscribers home.
Service providers and equipment manufacturers across the globe continue to depend on Spirent to test the complexities of todays high speed Ethernet equipment and networks.
Spirent preparing enterprises for China Telecom to use Spirent equipment dynamic, terabit-capacity data centers for sophisticated mobile device testing Spirent introduced the first holistic China Telecom selected Spirents mobile approach to validating the performance device test system as the most complete of data centers designed to support and best suited to help the service virtualized services and converged provider continue to offer its subscribers networks.
The network performance and the highest quality of experience.
By scale, service availability, system security, ensuring the mobile devices it sells to subscribers comply with industry application quality of experience and power efficiency of these new data standards as well as offer the highest application service quality, China Telecom centers can only be validated through a holistic test architecture.
gains a competitive edge in the fiercely contested Chinese wireless market.
Holistic testing provides a unified Layer 27 test architecture specifically designed to test the end-to-end performance of 10 40 100 Gigabit Ethernet fabrics, Fibre Channel over Ethernet convergence, virtualized server networking, cloud computing-based applications and security.
Spirent Communications plc 9 Annual Report 2009
