BUSINESS REVIEW The Spirent Group is organised into two business areas: description of Communications and Systems.
The Communications business our business comprises two divisions: Performance Analysis, providing test solutions for wireline and wireless technologies in the lab, and Service Assurance, providing network monitoring and field test solutions for live networks.
Revenue by Division Spirent Communications provides solutions to enable the world to communicate million faster, better, and more reliably.
We develop innovative test solutions for the 2009 engineers working within the communications industry allowing them to evaluate 1 the performance of the latest technologies to be deployed across the worldwide telecommunications infrastructure.
We also provide tools for service technicians and 2 3 field test engineers to improve network quality and make troubleshooting of live networks efficient and effective.
Network equipment manufacturers and service providers face numerous challenges associated with bringing products and services from the lab to the commercial marketplace.
Spirents Performance Analysis division allows equipment and mobile device manufacturers, service providers, enterprises and government entities to holistically test and benchmark the performance of networks, elements and services accelerating the deployment of these innovations into the market.
Spirent provides the ability to conduct functional, conformance, interoperability, scalability and quality of experience testing under real-world conditions inside and 09 08 07 outside the lab.
This capability, across the entire product lifecycle from concept 1.
Performance Analysis 201.8 191.2 169.3 inception to use in commercially available scenarios, helps shorten the product 2.
Service Assurance 33.5 33.5 34.3 development cycle, improve the quality of new services, and reduce the cost and 3.
Systems 36.8 33.2 33.4 risk associated with such efforts.
Spirent delivers wireline and wireless solutions which address high speed Ethernet, data center, IMS, IPTV, location based services, LTE, Multi-GNSS satellites, 3G wireless and other emerging technologies.
1 Spirents service assurance solutions allow service providers to diagnose, Operating Profit by Division troubleshoot and determine how to resolve issues with networks and systems within million the live network all the way to the home.
By leveraging the expertise gained by testing 2009 technologies and systems in the lab, Spirent enables service providers to deploy and 1 2 maintain efficient, cost effective and high performing networks.
As a result, network 3 operators enjoy reduced churn by providing a higher quality of experience which ultimately increases subscriber retention.
Additionally, our test solutions allow service providers to reduce operational costs through better identification of potential network problems and the use of the appropriate resources to address and correct those challenges.
Systems is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic control systems for electrically powered vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets.
These include medical vehicles such as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters as well as industrial vehicles such as floor cleaning equipment, fork-lift trucks, aerial access platforms and golf carts.
Systems 5.0 4.3 3.9 1 Before share-based payment, acquired intangible amortisation and exceptional items.
Spirent Communications plc 7 Annual Report 2009
