connection with the matter being considered.
In deciding whether directors statement to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors are on corporate required to act in the way they consider most likely to promote the success of the Company and they may impose limits or governance conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board considers the procedure to have operated effectively during the year.
Compliance Alex Walker served as the Senior Independent Non-Executive The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Director during the period under review.
The Senior Independent governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Non-Executive Director is available to meet shareholders upon Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June request if they have concerns which contact through the normal 2008 the Code.
The Board is accountable to the Companys channels of the Chairman or an executive director has failed to shareholders for good governance and this Statement, together resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Ian with the Report on directors remuneration on pages 33 to 40, Brindle will become Senior Independent Non-Executive Director describes how the Board has applied the main principles of following Mr Walker's appointment as Non-Executive Chairman good governance contained within the Code during the year of the Company on 4 March 2010. under review.
It is the Boards view that the Company is It is Company policy to hold at least four Board meetings a fully compliant.
There were seven Board meetings during 2009.
The agenda is settled by the Chairman in advance of the meeting and papers The Board are circulated to Board members several days ahead of the As at 31 December 2009, the Board comprised a chairman, four meeting.
Minutes of previous meetings are circulated to all Board independent non-executive directors, one non-executive director members and, subject to their agreement, approved at the not classified as independent for the purposes of the Code when following Board meeting.
determining the composition of the Board or its Committees, and Full attendance by the Board is expected at meetings and in two executive directors, details of whom are provided on page 25.
2009 all directors attended all seven meetings except Duncan The Board operates within a framework of controls including a Lewis, who missed two meetings and Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
and Alex Walker, who each missed one meeting due to There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the unavoidable diary conflicts.
Where the director was absent, full Company: the Chairman Edward Bramson being responsible for documentation for the meeting was issued and briefings were running the Board and the Chief Executive Officer Bill Burns provided as appropriate.
It was ensured that any comments on the being responsible for implementing strategy.
documentation or subject matter to be considered were passed to It was announced on 4 March 2010 that Mr Bramson would the Board for consideration.
resign as Chairman of the Company on that day and that Alex Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards Walker would be appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the decision have been delegated to three Committees with clearly Company.
It was also announced that Edward Bramson and Gerard defined terms of reference which, together with the composition Eastman would retire from the Board at the 2010 AGM.
of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The terms of The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing leadership reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective Committees can be found on the Companys website at controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its receive accurate, timely and clear information.
They receive objectives, and reviews management performance.
It also defines regular updates on business performance and receive the Companys values and standards and ensures that its presentations from the executive directors and other senior obligations to shareholders are understood and met.
Under the direction of the The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good and timely and at least annually.
The Board determined that, within the information flows between the Board and its Committees and terms of the Code, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis, Tom Maxwell and makes sure that Board procedures are complied with.
The Alex Walker are each independent non-executive directors.
As Company Secretary also updates and advises the Board on all Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have, until September 2009, regulatory and governance matters.
had a connected material notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the Share capital of the Company, the Board has concluded that they Board Committees may take independent professional advice at should not be considered independent of the Company for the the Companys expense in order to fulfill their duties.
All directors period under review.
Details of other professional commitments of also have access to the advice and services of the Company the Chairman and non-executive directors are provided in their Secretary, whose removal may only be effected with the approval biographies on page 25. of the Board.
In October 2008, the Company adopted new Articles of Association permitting the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to Board appointments and induction authorise situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company directors to the Board which complies with the Code.
The Board has a formal system in place On appointment to the Board and its Committees all directors for directors to declare Situational Conflicts and for these to be receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements.
considered for authorisation by those directors who have no 30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE New directors are briefed on their legal and other duties and The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal obligations as directors of a UK listed company.
Visits to different controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain of facilities and meetings with senior management are organised, these responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
During the year the as appropriate, to assist the new director in developing an Committee has monitored and reviewed risk management and understanding of how the Group operates and the key issues that internal control, reviewed the interim and full year financial it faces.
statements, key accounting policies, the auditors report on the The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors interim review and year-end audit and managements responses to seek election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting the issues raised.
The internal audit programme and the external following their appointment and that all directors seek re-election audit strategy and scope for 2009 were also agreed and approved.
at least every three years.
It was announced on 4 March 2010 that Further details of internal control and process are set out below.
Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman will retire at the 2010 AGM.
Regular reports on tax, treasury, legal and health and safety are As no other director has a letter of appointment which is due to presented.
Further details of the Group's Ethics Policy and health expire before the 2011 AGM, no director is required to seek and safety performance are contained in the Corporate Social re-election at the 2010 AGM.
Responsibility Statement on pages 22 to 24.
The Chairman of the Committee reports any significant findings or identified Performance evaluation weaknesses to the Board.
Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the carried out during the year by directors completing provision of non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure questionnaires and the results being collated and analysed by that the provision of such services does not impair the external the Company Secretary who prepared a report for Board auditors independence or objectivity.
Under this policy, certain discussion.
The Board discussion concluded that the Board and non-audit services are precluded.
The policy is reviewed and Committees operated well and were effective.
financial limits for non-audit services are set on an annual basis.
The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive The Committee considers that notwithstanding the non-audit directors and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to services provided during the year, Ernst & Youngs objectivity as assess performance and to discuss the performance of the external auditors was not impaired.
In recommending their executive directors or any other matters.
The Chairman has re-appointment as external auditors, the Committee considered concluded that during the year under review the commitment and Ernst & Youngs performance, resource, quality control application of the non-executive directors was of a high standard procedures, policy on rotating its audit partners audit partners including each having time to attend all Board and appropriate rotate every five years, independence and objectivity.
The Committee meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
Committee also considered the risk of Ernst & Young withdrawing The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director met with the from the audit market.
There are no contractual obligations that independent non-executive directors on 11 November 2009, in restrict the Company's current choice of external auditor.
the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
Notwithstanding Mr Bramsons role as chairman Remuneration Committee and chief executive officer of Nautilus, Inc, the independent The Remuneration Committee comprises Alex Walker non-executive directors were of the opinion that Mr Bramson Chairman, Ian Brindle and Duncan Lewis, all of whom are gave sufficient time to his role as Chairman of the Company and independent non-executive directors, making the composition of was effective in that role during the year under review.
the Committee compliant with the Code.
Tom Maxwell will be appointed to and become Chairman of the Remuneration Board Committees Committee following Mr Walker's appointment as Non-Executive Audit Committee Chairman of the Company.
The Audit Committee comprises Ian Brindle Chairman, Tom Further details about the Remuneration Committee are Maxwell and Alex Walker, all of whom are independent nonincluded in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 33 executive directors, making the composition of the Committee to 40. compliant with the Code.
The Code also requires that the Audit Committee includes at least one member who has recent, Nomination Committee significant and relevant financial experience.
The Board The Nomination Committee comprises Edward Bramson considers that both Ian Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such Chairman, Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman, Duncan Lewis, Tom experience.
Duncan Lewis will be appointed to the Audit Maxwell and Alex Walker and meets at least once each year.
Committee following Mr Walker's appointment as NonExecutive During 2009 the Nomination Committee held one meeting which Chairman of the Company.
all Committee members attended, except Duncan Lewis, who During 2009, the Audit Committee held three meetings at had an unavoidable diary conflict.
The Nomination Committee is which there was full attendance by Committee members.
At responsible for reviewing the composition and structure of the each meeting the Companys external auditors, the Chief Board and for identifying and recommending candidates for Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance, the Head executive and non-executive positions, based on the required of Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary were in role and capabilities which have been specified for the attendance.
The Chairman and the other directors may also appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the attend the meetings.
In addition, the Committee meets with Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
As the Company's external auditors without management being the majority of members are independent non-executive present.
The minutes of Committee meetings are available to directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with all directors.
Alex Walker will become Chairman of the Spirent Communications plc 31 Annual Report 2009 Internal control directors statement The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of on corporate internal control.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of this system and this review did not governance continued reveal any significant issues or weaknesses.
The Board confirms that this process was in place throughout the year under review Nomination Committee following Mr Bramson's resignation as and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
The Chairman of the Company.
primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, over time, increase shareholder value Relations with shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups assets.
The system is designed to Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve and a number of methods are used to promote greater business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Process Financial Officer.
Day to day responsibility for effective internal control and risk The Company has an established cycle of communication monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level.
based on its financial reporting calendar.
This includes the The Board and the Audit Committee continue to agree that Preliminary Results in February March, Annual Report in March, currently there is no need for a dedicated internal control Annual General Meeting and Interim Management Statement in department.
Responsibility for internal control rests with the May, Half-year Results in August and the Interim Management Group Vice President Finance and North America Vice President Statement in November.
Both of these senior finance managers are independent The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial of any business unit and play a key role in providing an objective Officer ensure that the views expressed at meetings with view and continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the institutional shareholders are communicated effectively to internal control systems throughout the Group.
The Group consists the Board as a whole so that any issues or concerns are of a limited number of entities which can comfortably be covered fully understood.
by the two senior finance managers.
As stated above, the Group Vice President Finance attends all Audit Committee meetings to Electronic communications give an update on any internal control issues arising and any The Company promotes the use of electronic communication.
All stock exchange announcements and presentations to The Groups system of risk management comprises an shareholders are made available on our website, together with integrated risk management strategy of regular self-assessment of webcasts of our annual and half-year financial results.
Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the website also contains up to date corporate governance Audit Committee and by the Board.
information including terms of reference for the three Board Management and specialists within the finance department are Committees, the terms and conditions of appointment of responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial non-executive directors, the Companys Ethics Policy and records and processes that ensure all financial information is Articles of Association.
relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and At its 2008 AGM the Company passed a resolution allowing it regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a to communicate with shareholders by means of the Companys timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial website and an invitation to opt out of receiving mailings solely statements is completed by management to ensure that the by electronic communication was sent to shareholders with the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately 2009 AGM documentation.
Shareholders who have purchased reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is their shares since that invitation was distributed in March 2009 subject to the approval of the Audit Committee.
but who wish to receive company mailings electronically should In addition to this process, the following key elements are notify the Companys registrar, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2126 or via critical to the overall internal control environment: www.
In line with this policy, the Company's Half-year Results will in future only be available on the an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, Company's website at www.
defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of Electronic communications provide significant benefits for authority: shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of an ethics policy which has been approved by the Board, which information, reduced environmental impact and cost and the sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all Board would encourage investors to participate in the programme.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures whereby employees may report, Pensions governance in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes are in the a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and UK and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly the Group and are administered by trustees which include reviewed: and employees and independent bodies.
The schemes do not lend a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence money or lease any assets to the Group.
process and post acquisition integration programme.
32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009
