Share capital and control report of the The Company has a single class of share which is divided into directors 1 Ordinary Shares of 3 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary Share carries one vote and all of the Ordinary Shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights relating to the Ordinary Shares.
At the date of this Report, 678.8 million Ordinary Shares of 1 The directors present their Annual Report to the shareholders 3 3 pence each had been issued which are fully paid up and are together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company also Group and the parent Company financial statements for the year operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR to 31 December 2009. programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary Shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market and The Bank Business review of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to programme.
Further details on share capital are set out in note the shareholders of the Company.
28 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the Reviews of the Groups activities during the year, the position parent Company financial statements.
at the year-end and developments since that date are set out The rights, including those relating to voting, obligations and in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review, any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys Ordinary the Directors statement on corporate governance and the Shares, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set Business Review.
out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can The Business Review explains financial performance, key be found on our website at www.
com or can be obtained performance indicators, the position at the year-end, any post from Companies House or by writing to the Company Secretary.
balance sheet events, any likely future developments and a The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Group and how these are managed.
changes to the Articles of Association approved at the 2009 AGM The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking became effective on 1 October 2009.
The Notice of 2010 AGM statements with respect to the operations, performance and includes a resolution to make minor changes to the Company's financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these Articles of Association to take account of recent amendments to statements involve uncertainty since future events and company law.
circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer information available at the date of preparation of this Annual of securities or on voting rights.
Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update During the year to 31 December 2009, options and rights those forward-looking statements.
exercised pursuant to the Companys share incentive plans resulted in the allotment of 6.9 million new Ordinary Shares.
Principal activities A further 0.7 million new Ordinary Shares have been allotted The principal activities of the Group are set out on page 7 of this under the share incentive plans between the end of the Annual Report.
financial year and the date of this Report.
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts Results and dividends in connection with the operation of the Companys share The consolidated income statement is on page 42.
Profit for the incentive plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust financial year attributable to equity shareholders amounted to ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
of both trusts have waived their right to receive dividends on A final dividend of 0.66 pence per Ordinary Share is any Ordinary Shares held by them except for a nominal amount recommended by the Board for the year to 31 December 2009 of 0.01 pence other than for those Ordinary Shares held in the 2008 0.60 pence for which approval will be sought from ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee.
For shareholders at the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting further details on the employee benefit trusts see Investment 2010 AGM on 5 May 2010, to be paid on 6 May 2010 ADR in own Ordinary Shares in note 28 to the consolidated financial holders on 13 May 2010 to those shareholders whose names are statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial on the Register of Members on 12 March 2010. statements.
Trustees of both trusts do not vote their Ordinary Together with the interim dividend of 0.55 pence per Shares, except for those Ordinary Shares held in the ESOT which Ordinary Share 2008 0.50 pence which was paid to shareholders are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder which on 17 September 2009, this amounts to a total dividend for 2009 the Trustees will vote in accordance with the instructions of 1.21 pence per Ordinary Share 2008 1.10 pence.
received from the beneficial owner.
26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009 GOVERNANCE Number of % of The Company does not have agreements with any director or Ordinary Companys employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Shares voting total voting employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of rights rights the Companys share incentive plans may cause outstanding Blackrock Inc 115,514,742 17.02 unvested options and awards granted to employees under such Prudential plc 74,053,929 10.91 plans to vest on a takeover as follows: Aviva plc 49,698,793 7.32 Ameriprise Financial, Inc 38,520,235 5.67 Change of control Artemis Investment provisions Effect on Performance Management Limited 35,063,850 5.17 Share incentive plan in the rules vesting condition Legal & General Group plc 26,423,720 3.89 2005 Employee Sun Life Assurance Company Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies of Canada UK Limited 23,382,347 3.44 Spirent Stock Deutsche Bank AG 21,740,213 3.20 Incentive Plan No None N A Aegon UK Group of Companies 20,551,904 3.03 Total of significant holdings 404,949,733 59.65 Significant agreements Others 273,881,517 40.35 A Group company has a significant agreement with a Total number of Ordinary Shares contract manufacturer which contains a clause requiring the in issue 678,831,250 100.00 manufacturers consent to any proposed transaction which will or may result in a change of control of the Group company.
Board of directors The Company considers that the agreement is essential to its The names and brief biographical details of the directors who business and intends it to remain in place until at least served during the year under review are shown on page 25.
The Company is not aware of any other significant Election and re-election of directors agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating to terminate upon a change of control of the Company following the appointment and replacement of directors.
Bramson and Gerard Eastman, who will be retiring from the Board at the 2010 AGM, no director has a letter of appointment which is Return of capital due to expire before the 2011 AGM.
No directors are therefore The Company was authorised at the 2006 AGM to repurchase up required to seek re-election at the 2010 AGM.
to 14.99 per cent of its own issued Ordinary Shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Companys Articles of Directors interests Association.
This authority has been renewed at each AGM since The directors interests including any connected persons in the 2006.
Since the Company began returning capital to shareholders issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company are set out in the in May 2006, a total of 176.3 million has been returned, through Report on directors remuneration on pages 33 to 40. the repurchase of 320.1 million Ordinary Shares.
During 2009 a total of 0.6 million Ordinary Shares, each with a 1 Directors indemnity arrangements nominal value of 3 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year consideration of 0.6 million and cancelled immediately following directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and repurchase.
This represents 0.09 per cent of the Companys issued its directors.
Ordinary Share capital at the beginning of 2009.
The Company has In addition to the indemnity provision contained in the not repurchased any further Ordinary Shares between the end of Companys Articles of Association, the Company has provided a the financial year and the date of this Report.
deed of indemnity for the benefit of each of the directors of the The Company will seek authority to repurchase up to 9.99 per Company in respect of costs of defending claims against them cent of its own Ordinary Shares at the 2010 AGM to facilitate any and third party liabilities.
further return of capital if the Board concludes that it is in the Other than this, at no time during the year did any director best interests of shareholders.
hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings except for the Substantial shareholdings service contracts between executive directors and the Company.
At the date of this Report, the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in its Ordinary Shares under Corporate social responsibility the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on Services Authority: pages 22 to 24.
This statement gives details of the Groups policies on ethics, the environment, health and safety, charitable donations and involvement in the community.
Spirent Communications plc 27 Annual Report 2009 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable report of the expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate directors continued resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
Disclosure of information to auditors Charitable donations of 91,000 were made in the year 2008 52,000.
This amount excludes operating units support Each of the directors of the Company at the date of this report confirms that: and participation in local community activities.
In accordance with the Group's Ethics Policy, no political donations were made so far as the director is aware, there is no information in the year 2008 nil.
The Group employs approximately 1,450 people 2008 1,500 needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are around the world and is proud of its history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
The Corporate social unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a responsibility statement gives details of the Groups policies on employment, training and development.
director in order to make himself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with Research and development preparing their report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to maintain and improve the Groups competitive Auditors position and therefore continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the 47.5 million research and Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be development spend during the year, equivalent to 17.5 per cent of revenue 2008 45.3 million and 17.6 per cent.
The Group proposed at the 2010 AGM.
will continue to commit resources as appropriate to research and development.
Annual General Meeting The 2010 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 5 May 2010 Policy on payment of suppliers at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, United Kingdom.
Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with By Order of the Board their suppliers are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
At 31 December 2009, the Company had an average of 59 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors 2008 51 days.
Corporate governance Rachel Whiting Company Secretary The Directors statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 30 to 32.
The Statement of directors responsibilities in 4 March 2010 respect of the financial statements appears on page 29.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 24.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 18 to 21.
In addition, note 26 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
28 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2009
