direCtors report The directors of Sports Direct International plc present their annual report to The Groups forecast and projections, taking account of reasonably possible shareholders, together with the audited consolidated financial statements for changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate the Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2009 the within the level of the current facility.
The Group will open renewal negotiations Year.
with the bank during 2009 10 and has at this stage not sought any written commitments that the facility will be renewed.
However, the Group regularly This document contains a number of forward-looking statements relating to holds discussions with its bankers about its present and future borrowing needs the Company and its subsidiaries the Group with respect to, amongst others, and no matters have been drawn to its attention to suggest that renewal may the following: financial conditions: results of operations: economic conditions not be forthcoming on acceptable terms.
in which the Group operates: the business of the Group and future benefits of the current management plans and objectives.
The Group considers any After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the statements that are not historical facts as forward-looking statements.
They Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational relate to events and trends that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the cause the actual results and financial position of the Group to differ materially going concern basic in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
from the information presented in the relevant forward-looking statement.
When used in this document the words estimate, project, intend, aim, believe, expect, should, and similar expressions, as they relate to the appropriations Group and the management of it, are intended to identify such forward-looking An interim dividend of 1.22p per share was paid to shareholders on the register statements.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forwardat 30 April 2009. looking statements which speak only as at the date of this document.
Neither the directors nor any member of the Group undertake any obligation publicly to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of Group struCture and operations new information, future events or otherwise, save in respect of any requirement During the Year the Group acquired the 20% of Lonsdale Sports Limited not under applicable laws, the Listing Rules, and other regulations.
already owned by the Group and disposed of Streetwise Sports Limited.
prinCipal aCtivities share Capital The principal activities of the Group during the Year were: The authorised share capital of the Company is 100,000,000 divided into 999,500,010 ordinary shares of 10p each and 499,990 redeemable preference Retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and equipment: shares of 10p each.
Wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, footwear The ordinary shares have all the rights that usually attach to such ordinary and equipment under Group owned or licensed brands: and shares, including the right to receive dividends if paid or declared, to receive notice and attend and vote at meetings of shareholders and subject to what is Licensing of Group brands.
said below concerning redeemable preference shares to receive a share of the assets of the Company on any winding up.
Further information on the Groups principal activities is set out in About Sports Direct International plc at the front of this document and in the Chief Executives The redeemable preference shares do not carry any right to receive a dividend Report and Business Review on pages 3 to 8. or to participate in any distribution of the profits or assets of the Company, or to vote at meetings of shareholders, but holders of redeemable preference shares have the right to receive notice and attend meetings of shareholders results for the year and on any winding up of the Company the redeemable preference shares are The trading results for the Year and the Groups financial position as at the redeemed at par in priority to any distribution to the holders of ordinary shares.
end of the Year are shown in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed No redeemable preference shares are in issue.
further in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and in the Financial Review on pages 3 to 8 and 9 to 12 respectively.
640,452,369 ordinary shares of 10p are in issue and fully paid of which 64,000,000 are currently held in Treasury.
On 16 September 2008, 8,000,000 shares were sold from Treasury to the Sports Direct International plc Employee Business review and future developments Benefit Trust the EBT.
The statutory Business Review required by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act is included in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review, and in Grants in respect of 4,397,128 shares have been made under the Performance the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 3 to 8 and 28 to 30 Share Plan, which is described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages respectively.
A review of Group activities during the Year, together with the 23 to 24.
The Trustee of the EBT has agreed to use shares held by them to factors likely to affect its future development, performance and conditions, is satisfy awards that vest under that plan.
included in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on pages 4 to 8.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 9 to 12.
The transfer of shares Chief Executives Report and Business Review also describes on page 6 and A member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of 7 the principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group, and note 3 to the transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for An instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, managing its capital, its principal financial risk management objectives, details unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit transfer need not be under seal.
Details of the Groups Key Performance Indicators by reference to which the development, performance and position of the business The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a can be measured effectively are stated in the Chief Executives Report and certificated share which is not a fully paid share, provided that the refusal does Business Review on page 8. not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 30 reports on environmental matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless environment, the Groups employees, and on social and community issues.
the instrument of transfer: is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the GoinG ConCern Company, or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the As highlighted in note 25 to the Financial Statements, the Group finances its day certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the to day working capital requirements and has made investments and conducted Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make a share buy-back programme in the past, using a facility with the Bank of the transfer: Scotland that is due for renewal in April 2011.
The current economic conditions however, create some uncertainty in the economy and particularly in respect is in respect of one class of share only, and of the exchange rate between sterling and the US dollar which impacts on the cost of the Groups products manufactured in the Far East, and the availability of is in favour of not more than four persons.
bank finance in the foreseeable future.
14 Directors Report the Companys power to purChase shares The Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in the Company by a At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 September 2008 the Company person if those shares represent at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys was generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within shares or any class thereof and if, in respect of those shares, such person has the meaning of section 163 3 of the 1985 Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in been served with a restriction notice after failure whether by such person or the Company subject to the following conditions: by another to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be Act, unless i the transfer is an approved transfer as defined in the Articles of purchased is 57,645,236, representing 10% of the Companys issued Association of the Company, ii the member is not himself in default as regards ordinary share capital: supplying the information required and certifies that no person in default as regards supplying such information is interested in any of the shares the subject the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an of the transfer, or iii the transfer of the shares is required to be registered by ordinary share is 10p being the nominal value of an ordinary share : the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a share in certificated form, it will ordinary share is the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average send the transferee notice of its refusal within two months after the date on of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares as derived which the instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company.
No fee may be from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List of the five business charged for the registration of any instrument of transfer or other document days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted relating to or affecting the title to a share.
to be purchased: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock powers to issue shares Exchange Trading System.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting on 10 September 2008: The above authority expires at the close of the next Annual General Meeting the directors of the Company were generally and unconditionally of the Company, but at that meeting a similar authority will be sought from authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the 1985 shareholders.
Act, in substitution for all prior authorities conferred upon them, but without prejudice to any allotments made pursuant to the terms of such authorities, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant shareholders securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as set out above amount of 19,215,078 for the period expiring unless previously revoked, and below, there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or of voting rights.
varied or renewed at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may, before such expiry make an Mike Ashley and the Company have entered into a Relationship Agreement, offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be pursuant to which Mike Ashley undertook to the Company that, for so long as he allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities is entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 15% or more of the rights to in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not vote at general meetings of the Company, he will: expired: conduct all transactions and relationships with any member of the Group the directors were empowered to allot equity securities within the on arms length terms and on a normal commercial basis and with the meaning of section 94 of the 1985 Act for cash, pursuant to the general approval of the non-executive directors: authorities described above in substitution for all prior powers conferred upon the Board but without prejudice to any allotments made pursuant to exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Company the terms of such powers, as if section 89 1 of the 1985 Act did not apply being managed in accordance with the Listing Rules and the principles to any such allotment, such power being limited to: of good governance set out in the Combined Code and not exercise any of his voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue in Articles of Association of the Company: favour of holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of other than through his interest in the Company, not have any interest in ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other any business which sell sports apparel and equipment subject to certain arrangements as the directors deem necessary or expedient in rights, after notification to the Company, to acquire any such interest relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems of less than 20% of the business concerned, and certain other limited under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any exceptions, without receiving the prior approval of the non-executive regulatory body or stock exchange: and directors: ii the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than as and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of the described in i above up to an aggregate amount equal to 5% of Company.
the then issued and unconditionally allotted share capital of the Company provided always that such power expires unless As at 16 July 2009, the following party had a significant direct or indirect share previously revoked, varied or renewed at the conclusion of the next holding in the shares of the company: Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may, before the end of such period, make an offer or agreement Percentage of issued which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Number of ordinary share capital Nature expiry of this authority and the directors may allot equity securities shares held with voting rights held of holding in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
MASH Holdings Limited 410,400,000 71.2% Direct The authorities expire at the close of the next Annual General Meeting of the MASH Holdings Limited is wholly owned by Mike Ashley.
Company, but a contract to allot shares under these authorities may be made prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in whole or part after the Annual General Meeting, and at that meeting similar authorities will be sought suppliers from shareholders.
It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its obligations.
The number of days purchases outstanding for the Groups UK operations as 26 April 2009 was 36 days 2008: 27 days.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 15 direCtors report Continued ContraCts essential to the Business of the Company CharitaBle and politiCal donations The Chief Executives Report and Business Review sets out on page 5 During the Year, the Group made charitable donations of 50,000 2008: information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other 10,000 to the Retail Trust, the principal charity of the retail sector.
No political arrangements which are essential or material to the business of the Group.
takeovers direCtors The directors do not believe there are any significant contracts that may change Directors who served during the year were: in the event of a successful takeover of the Company.
Details of the impact of date of appointment any successful takeover of the Company on directors bonus and share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 and 24.
Executive Mike Ashley 21 December 2006 Directors service contracts and non-executive directors appointment letters Simon Bentley 02 March 2007 contain no specific provisions relating to any takeover of the Company.
Malcolm Dalgleish 25 October 2007 Dave Forsey 08 February 2007 employee share sChemes Details of the Performance Share Plan and share awards made thereunder are Bob Mellors 21 December 2006 set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 and 24, and on page Dave Singleton 25 October 2007 26.
No performance period has yet been completed under that plan.
At the next Annual General Meeting of the Company the Company intends to seek approval of the establishment of the Bonus Share Scheme details of which are set out in The provisions in the Companys Articles for the appointment, retirement after the Directors Remuneration Report on page 24. appointment by the Board and by rotation, and standing for reappointment are described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 18. employee involvement The Group employs 16,650 employees.
Those employees are fundamental to the Details of directors, their roles, responsibilities, achievements and significant external commitments are set out on page 13 and, in respect of directors future success of the Group.
The Group communicates with its people through standing for reappointment, in the Annual General Meeting Notice, which is sent a wide variety of channels, including briefings held at Head Office, information transmitted through line managers, and an Employee Forum at the Head to shareholders with this report.
Office and National Distribution Centre at Shirebrook, and the Companys open management style encourages employees to develop and to contribute to the The Board believes that each director standing for reappointment continues to demonstrate commitment, is an effective member of the Board, and contributes development of the business.
to the balance of skills, knowledge and experience identified by the Board as All UK permanent employees of the Group in UK Retail, Brands and Head being required.
The Board is satisfied that the Acting Chairman is not precluded from devoting sufficient time to his duties to the Company by reason of his other Office will participate in the proposed new Bonus Share Scheme if approved at the Annual General Meeting.
The scheme is intended to motivate and provide commitments.
The Board recommends reappointment of the directors standing for reappointment.
those employees with a direct and substantial link between Group performance and their remuneration, and encourage employee participation in the Group.
The proposed new Bonus Share Scheme will operate in addition to the current Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company at 26 April 2009 and at the workplace bonus schemes, which are directly related to specific workplace performance.
date of this report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 24 and 26 respectively.
Copies of the service contracts of executive directors and of the appointment letters of the Acting Chairman and non-executive directors The Group has entered into an agreement with the trade union Unite in respect of collective bargaining of the pay, hours and holidays of certain groups of are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
employees at the Groups National Distribution Centre at Shirebrook.
No director has a directorship in common or other significant links with any Further information on relationships with employees can be found in the other director except in the case of executive directors holding directorships of Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 28. subsidiary companies of the Company.
equal opportunities direCtors ConfliCts of interest The Groups policy for its employees and for all applicants for employment is to The Board has put in place procedures to deal with directors conflicts of fit the abilities and aptitude of each individual to an appropriate job, irrespective of gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic interest.
During the Year the Board reviewed and, where appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to it by directors, origin.
The Company and other Group companies will not tolerate discrimination in any form.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full and and a register of those situational conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
Also during the Year the Board noted any transactional conflicts of interest fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance with their particular aptitudes concerning directors that arose and were declared.
No director took part in the and abilities.
The Group does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that discussion or determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed a transactional conflict of interest.
training, career development and promotion opportunities are available to all employees.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment in the same or similar job where an employee becomes disabled including deeds of indemnity offering retraining in order that the employees employment within the Group may continue.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company and for the benefit of each person who was a director during the Year, in respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their capacity as director of the Company and of any company in the Group.
These researCh and development indemnities are qualifying third part indemnity provisions within the meaning The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores and has arrangements with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the given to that term by Sections 234 and 235 of the 2006 Act, and all these indemnities remain in force.
annual General meetinG land and BuildinGs The directors have reviewed the land and buildings owned by the Group and The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 9 September 2009 at Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
The meeting will commence have concluded that the market value of those properties is less than the balance sheet amounts, and have accordingly impaired those amounts.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
16 Directors Report auditors Grant Thornton UK LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office.
In accordance with section 489 4 of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
audit information The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board michael oliver Secretary 16 July 2009 Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 17
