Board of direCtors Simon Bentley aged 54 was appointed to the board on 2 March 2007 and Acting Chairman on 31 May 2007.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
As Acting Chairman he chairs the Nominations Committee.
Simon qualified as a chartered accountant in 1980 and in 1987 joined Blacks Leisure Group plc where he was Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years until 2002.
Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of companies and organisations.
Among these, he is Deputy Chairman of the solicitors Mishcon fide Reya and a Senior Trustee of The Leadership Trust.
He is the Chairman of hair simon Bentley product brand Umberto Giannini and the hotelier Maypole Group Plc.
He has lengthy experience Acting Non-Executive of the sporting goods industry and is a Director of the UKs leading five-a-side football centre Chairman operator, Powerleague.
Mike Ashley aged 44 established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner of the business until the Companys listing in March 2007.
Mike is the Executive mike ashley Deputy Chairman and is responsible for formulating the vision and strategy of the Company.
Executive Deputy Chairman Mike is a member of the Boards Nomination Committee.
Dave Forsey aged 43 has been with the business for over 24 years, during which he has acquired dave forsey significant knowledge and experience.
He is Chief Executive and has overall responsibility for Chief Executive the business.
Bob Mellors aged 59 has been the Groups Finance Director since 2004.
A graduate in economics, he qualified with  in London before joining Eacott Worrall, Bob mellors where Sports Direct became a client in 1982.
He was managing partner and head of corporate Group Finance Director finance at Eacott Worrall before joining the business.
Malcolm Dalgleish 57 joined the Board on 25 October 2007.
Malcolm is currently head of retail in the Europe, Middle East and Africa area at CB Richard Ellis.
In 2005 CBRE acquired Dalgleish - the leading retail real estate services specialist in the UK, which Malcolm founded in malcolm dalgleish 1979 and of which he was the principal shareholder.
Malcolm is a member of the Boards Audit, Non-Executive Director Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Dave Singleton aged 58 joined the Board on 25 October 2007.
Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International Limited.
He stepped down in April 2007 having helped to successfully integrate Reebok following its acquisition by adidas Group in January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice President Northern Europe Region & UK and since 2003 he was Senior Vice President Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Dave has an extensive senior management record and brings david singleton valuable experience of international sports brand operations.
He is Chairman of the Boards Senior Independent Remuneration Committee and a member of the Boards Audit and Nomination Committees.
He Non-Executive Director is also a director of Bolton Lads & Girls Club.
Sports Direct International PLC Annual Report 2009 13
