Scottish and Southern Energy 63 Annual Report 2009 trustees to vote on their behalf by way of reduce the costs of offshore wind.
The opportunities policy aims to ensure that a Form of Direction.
Energy Demand Research Project, started all employees and job applicants are no in 2007, is providing valuable insight into less fairly treated due to age, gender, The company is not aware of any customer behaviour and alongside this sexual orientation, race, disability or agreements between shareholders that a number of innovative products are other reasons not justified in law or may result in restrictions on the transfer being developed.
relevant to performing their job.
The of securities and or voting rights.
company is also committed to the SSE Power Distribution has continued to continuing employment of, and the The rules governing the appointment take an active role in the Ofgem Innovation arranging of appropriate training for, any of Directors are set out in the Corporate Funding Incentive for both distribution employees who become disabled during Governance Report on pages 55 to 61.
The and transmission and has commissioned the course of employment.
The company companys Articles may only be amended projects addressing asset management, aims to ensure that employees have the by a special resolution at a general security of supply and active network right skills to deliver the high standards of meeting of shareholders.
performance that are necessary to achieve its objectives.
Detailed information about The company is not aware of any Employees the companys approach to these and significant agreements to which it is The number of staff directly employed by related matters is set out in its party that take effect, alter or terminate the Group at 31 March 2009 was 18,795.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2009 upon a change of control of the company see www.
The company is Employees are encouraged to participate not aware of any contractual or other in the business of the company in a Creditor Payment Policy agreements which are essential to its variety of ways.
In support of the Boards It is the companys policy that payment business which ought to be disclosed commitment to providing opportunities terms are agreed at the outset of a in this Directors Report.
for employees to become shareholders, transaction and are adhered to: that bills the company offers Share Incentive Plans are paid in accordance with the contract: and that there are no alterations to payment Auditors and Sharesave Schemes which are open terms without prior agreement.
The number Upon the recommendation of the Audit to all eligible employees.
Employee of suppliers days represented by trade Committee and approval of the Board, participation in these schemes is around creditors was 39 days at 31 March 2009. resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc 38% and 31% respectively.
as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors Donations to fix their remuneration, will be proposed The company recognises that progress Charitable donations amounted to at the forthcoming AGM.
There were commitment and teamwork of its no payments for political purposes.
Each of the Directors who held office employees.
For that reason, and to mark at the date of approval of this Directors the tenth anniversary of SSEs formation, Accounting Policies, Financial Report confirms that, so far as each all eligible employees received during Instruments and Risk Director is aware, there is no relevant 2008 a special award comprising an Details of the Groups accounting audit information of which the companys offer, free of charge, of 10 shares in the policies, together with details of financial Auditors are unaware and each Director company: an online voucher worth 200 instruments and risk, are provided at has taken all the steps that ought to have for SSEs retail business and an additional Notes 1, 2 and 29 to the Accounts.
been taken in his duty as a Director to days holiday.
make himself or herself aware of any Additional Information relevant audit information and to establish The company places strong emphasis Where not provided elsewhere in the that the companys Auditors are aware of on employee communication and Directors Report, the following provides that information.
An employee newspaper is the information required to be disclosed distributed to employees.
Participation by Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
By Order of the Board and engagement is encouraged through team meetings, briefings and the intranet Each ordinary share of the company Vincent Donnelly where employees are informed of the carries one vote at general meetings Company Secretary latest company news from recent media of the company.
20 May 2009 coverage and about developments within the business.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the The Chief Executive regularly communicates company other than certain restrictions with employees through his blog and which may from time to time be imposed receives feedback, in addition to live by law for example, insider trading law.
on-screen question and answer style In accordance with the Listing Rules of webchats.
During the year, the senior the Financial Services Authority, certain management held a series of roadshows employees are required to seek the around the Group to present and discuss approval of the company to deal in the Groups vision, values and strategy.
The company has in place an extensive Employees who participate in the Share range of policies to safeguard the Incentive Plans whose shares remain in interests of its employees and potential the schemes trusts give directions to the employees.
In particular, its equal GOVERNANCE
