Scottish and Southern Energy 38 Annual Report 2009 Supply Much of the commentary on Ofgems Supply Initial Report focused on suppliers pricing structures with respect to particular segments of the market.
Affordability, Products, Service These included: SSE supplies electricity and gas to over nine k electricity in-area versus out-of-area million domestic, commercial and industrial price differentials, where Ofgems analysis showed that SSE has the customers within Great Britains competitive smallest such differential: and market and to around 50,000 customers in the k pre-payment meters PPMs, where SSE had already aligned its electricity Irish all-island market.
It is the second largest charges with those for customers supplier of energy in Great Britain and supplies paying by standard credit terms and subsequently implemented a 3% energy under the Southern Electric, SWALEC, reduction in the price paid by its gas Scottish Hydro Electric, Atlantic Electric and customers who use PPMs, thus reducing the average differential Gas and in Ireland Airtricity brands.
between them and customers paying by standard credit terms by around 25 per annum.
SSE remains very mindful of the impact 9m 1st 191k that rising fuel bills have on already hardCustomers Service ranking Homes insulated pressed households and has worked extensively to minimise their impact, including delaying for as long as tenable the introduction of price increases.
This Supply Brands has again demonstrated that the best counter to upward pressures on energy prices, and the best safeguard for customers, is Great Britains highlyscrutinised competitive market.
Indeed, in March 2009, the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change published Quarterly Energy Prices in the UK which said that: Provisional estimates suggest that, for the period July to December 2008, prices for medium domestic gas Key Priorities and electricity consumers, including tax, k Providing value for customers money through fair pricing were the lowest and fifth lowest in the k Delivering best-in-sector service EU 15 respectively.
k Developing existing and new energy products k Completing energy ef ciency programmes Energy Supply Objectives SSEs objective is to grow its energy supply business by offering consistently Introduction That conclusion was part of Ofgems competitive prices over the medium term Energy supply in Great Britain experienced Initial Findings Report, following its and providing best-in-sector service and an exceptional degree of volatility and inquiry into energy supply markets in market-leading products so that it is able intense public scrutiny during 2008 09.
Great Britain, using its powers under to retain and gain customers.
It also aims Forward annual wholesale prices for the Enterprise Act 2002.
It confirmed to broaden its relationship with these electricity peaked at almost 90 per MWh: that the fundamental structures of a customers through the provision of for gas, they peaked at 100p per therm.
competitive market are in place and added-value energy-related products and Although they subsequently fell back the transition to effective competitive services relevant to them and their needs.
from these peaks, wholesale prices for markets is well advanced and continuing.
In other words, SSE is not building this electricity and gas remained relatively It was to be expected that Ofgem would part of its business on the premise of high.
Like other suppliers, SSE procures identify a number of areas where the simply selling more of its core products energy through a variety of longand shorttransition to fully effective competition of electricity and gas but on providing the term contracts.
As a result, there is a time should be accelerated.
In line with that, energy and, increasingly, the related lag between rises and falls in wholesale in March 2009, it announced it was products and services people need.
prices and rises and falls in the prices minded to introduce a new licence charged to domestic customers.
Ofgem condition on suppliers requiring that Energy Supply Operations said in October 2008 that it found no prices should reflect the costs to the Customer Numbers evidence that this lag is greater when companies, a principle which SSE has SSE supplies electricity and gas in Great prices are falling than when they are rising.
Britain as Southern Electric, SWALEC, Scottish and Southern Energy 39 Annual Report 2009 Scottish Hydro Electric and Atlantic Supply Key Performance Indicators March 09 March 08 Electric and Gas.
During 2008 09, it million million achieved a net gain of 600,000 energy supply customer accounts, taking the Domestic electricity customer accounts GB 5.10 4.90 total to 9.05 million.
This was the seventh Domestic gas customer accounts GB 3.50 3.15 successive year in which SSE achieved Business electricity and gas customer sites GB 0.45 0.40 a net gain in energy supply customer Total energy customers GB 9.05 8.45 numbers and means it has doubled its total number in that period.
The total Telecoms and home services customers GB 0.33 0.23 comprises: Total customer numbers GB 9.38 8.68 Electricity customer numbers Ireland 0.05 0.04 k 5.1 million domestic electricity customer accounts: k 3.5 million domestic gas customer accounts: and Fortunately, falls in wholesale energy Initial Findings Report, published in k 0.45 million business electricity prices which started between July and October 2008, 43% of energy accounts in and gas sites.
October 2008 were sustained in to the Great Britain are settled using direct debit early part of 2009 and SSE announced and 16% are settled through PPMs, with Within the total, 2.2 million customer a reduction in its prices for domestic the balance using standard credit terms.
accounts are for loyalty products such electricity and gas customers in February.
as energyplus Argos, which rewards As at 31 March 2009, the total aged customers with money-off discount Future trends in energy prices for debt ie debt that is overdue by more vouchers, and energyplus Pulse, under domestic customers will depend on what than six months of SSEs domestic and which customers are able to support the happens in wholesale electricity and gas small business electricity and gas British Heart Foundation which received markets, with public policy decisions on customers was 72m, compared with 295,000 from SSE in respect of energyplus energy production and consumption also 70m in March 2008, during which period Pulse customers during 2008 09. having an impact.
The competitive supply the number of customers increased by market and the comprehensive scrutiny over 7%.
While improvements continue In addition, in October 2008, SSE and to which energy suppliers are subject to be made in SSEs debtor position, Marks & Spencer M&S launched a represent the best means of ensuring leading indicators, such as the number new dual fuel product under the brand that prices under any scenario are as of payment reminders being issued to name M&S Energy.
The product is low as possible.
customers, suggest that 2009 10 will available to M&S customers exclusively pose significant debt management through M&S stores and website, and The long-term outlook was considered by challenges, with the volume of work by 31 March 2009 had attracted 59,000 the Business and Enterprise Committee in this area for the Customer Service customer accounts.
which said in December 2008 that: We division increasing significantly.
continue to believe that once the global Energy Supply Operations economy begins to recover, in the long term In March 2009, Ofgem published the Prices in Great Britain the era of cheap energy is surely over.
outcome of its investigation into domestic Over the past few years, SSE has customers direct debits.
It focused on maintained a responsible pricing policy, Energy Supply Operations over 800 customer complaints which seeking to delay for as long as possible Payment Profiles identified the name of the supplier.
Of any increases in prices and seeking to Almost 58% of SSEs domestic electricity these, 2% were about SSE the lowest implement as quickly as possible any and gas accounts are paid by direct debit total for any of the leading suppliers and reductions.
The application of this policy or standing order.
A further 10% are paid SSE was held up as having best practice means that over 2008 as a whole, SSEs through pay-as-you-go or prepayment in a number of areas.
At the same time, quarterly-paying dual-fuel customers meters and the balance are on credit Ofgem identified a number of sector-wide paid an average of almost 100 including terms and settled by cheque or other such criticisms which SSE, in line with the VAT less for their energy than customers payment methods.
According to Ofgems other suppliers, will have to address.
of the largest energy supplier.
SSE increased its prices for domestic electricity and gas customers in August 2008.
The upsurge in wholesale electricity Over the past few years, SSE has maintained a and gas prices experienced up to that responsible pricing policy, seeking to delay for as point made delaying price rises beyond that untenable because SSE could no long as possible any increases in prices and seeking longer sustain the significant losses in energy supply then being experienced.
to implement as quickly as possible any reductions.
The Business and Enterprise Committee The application of this policy means that over 2008 as of the UK House of Commons said in December 2008: a reasonable level of a whole, SSEs quarterly-paying dual-fuel customers paid profit by the big energy suppliers will be a precondition of the necessary investment an average of almost 100 including VAT less for their in new electricity generating capacity energy than customers of the largest energy supplier.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 40 Annual Report 2009 Supply continued Energy Supply Operations under which customers who are unable for the foreseeable future and in December Customer Service to resolve issues with their supplier can 2008 SSE completed the acquisition of It is no coincidence that SSE has achieved take them up with Consumer Direct.
Barclaycards customer service centre seven successive years of growth in Complaints which are not resolved at Cumbernauld.
energy supply while being independently within eight weeks, or which become and consistently recognised as the deadlocked, may be taken to the new The centre became fully operational in customer service benchmark for the Energy Supply Ombudsman.
During January 2009 and it provides SSE with the rest of the industry.
SSE believes that 2008 09, 183 deadlocked complaints capacity to expand its customer service its proposition for customers needs to involving SSE were passed on to the operations and recruit many new skilled include service and products, as well as Ombudsman, the lowest number for people at a time when the number of price, to ensure it offers the best possible any supplier.
customers has continued to grow.
relieve some of the pressures that would Although SSE maintained its best-in otherwise have been felt at SSEs existing In the latest independent Customer sector position in customer service sites and gives it a new geographic area Satisfaction Report from uSwitch.
com, during 2008 09, it was a year in which from which to recruit people.
published in October 2008, SSE was the environment in which its teams ranked the best energy supplier, for the operated was very different as customers Energy Supply Operations fifth successive time.
It was ranked top responded to price increases and the Energy Efficiency in seven of the 11 categories featured in increasing profile of energy efficiency As the UK Department of Energy and the Report.
com stated: SSE has with a major increase in the number of Climate Change said when launching become the customer service benchmark calls to customer service centres.
In total, its consultation on a heat and energy for the rest of the industry.
In the JD SSEs energy supply customers made efficiency strategy in early 2009, there Power UK Electricity and Gas Customer 18 million calls to the company during needs to be a transformation in the Satisfaction Study, also published in 2008 09, an increase of around one attitudes and actions of everyone when October 2008, SSE was the top-ranked quarter on the previous year.
it comes to energy efficiency.
It said: supplier in both electricity and gas for We need a radical shift in our use of the second successive year and, once The changing shape of customer service energy and heat in our homes.
again, was the only supplier with a score is also illustrated by the fact that email significantly above the sector average.
overtook letters to become the second Using energy more efficiently is the In addition, in the Institute of Customer most common means of communication fastest and most cost-effective means Service study completed in July 2008, SSE with the company used by SSEs of reducing energy costs, sustaining was the top-ranked performer amongst customers.
This, in turn, indicates that supplies for the long term and securing UK energy suppliers.
the popularity of e-services such as reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide.
paperless billing is likely to increase SSE has obligations under the Carbon In previous years, SSE also used the rapidly over the next few years, and Emissions Reduction Target CERT number of complaints about it sent preparing for that is one of SSEs key scheme to deliver energy efficiency to energywatch for resolution as a key priorities over the coming years.
measures to households throughout performance indicator in this area.
Great Britain and in 2008 09 funded Following the Consumer, Estate Agents Nevertheless, conversations with the installation of cavity wall insulation and Redress CEAR Act 2007, new customers will remain the most in 87,000 homes and loft insulation in arrangements have been put in place important means of communication 104,000 homes excluding DIY insulation.
It also distributed around 16 million low energy lightbulbs.
To complement its heat and energy Customer Numbers GB million efficiency strategy, the UK government is also developing a Community Energy SSE is the second largest supplier in the competitive Saving Programme CESP, which aims electricity and gas supply markets in Great Britain.
It to deliver energy efficiency measures supplies energy under the Southern Electric, SWALEC, on a community basis, and is seeking to Scottish Hydro Electric and Atlantic brands.
It also implement a 20% increase in suppliers supplies energy in the Irish all-island market.
These are substantial measures, which 2009 9.05 will require the commitment of significant resources by energy suppliers, but SSE 2008 8.45 endorses the goal of securing substantial 2007 7.75 savings in energy bills and reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide, and major 2006 6.70 energy efficiency initiatives are clearly the 2005 6.10 most sustainable way of achieving this.
Energy Supply Operations Vulnerable Customers While any type of poverty, including fuel poverty, fundamentally results from an Scottish and Southern Energy 41 Annual Report 2009 individual or household having insufficient In April 2008, SSE published its Code of Practice income, SSE recognises that it has a significant role to play in reducing its for Vulnerable Customers, following consultation customers energy consumption and with consumer and voluntary organisations.
At its thus the associated costs and a role also in helping those of its customers who core is SSEs belief that any social tariff offered really struggle to pay for their basic energy needs.
by energy suppliers is only meaningful if it is clearly the lowest-cost tariff that they make available to In April 2008, SSE published its Code of Practice for Vulnerable Customers, any type of customer on any sign-up method.
following consultation with consumer and voluntary organisations.
At its core is SSEs belief that any social tariff offered by energy suppliers is only meaningful if it is clearly the lowest-cost tariff that they of energy consumption.
During 2008 09, Energy Supply Priorities in 2009 10 make available to any type of customer customers with an additional 125,000 During 2009 10, and beyond, SSE will on any sign-up method.
energy accounts joined better plan, taking seek to: the total to 165,000, making it SSEs most SSEs social tariff, energyplus care, successful new product ever.
k retain a reputation for fair pricing conforms to this principle and currently for domestic customers: gives eligible dual-fuel customers a The core of the better plan proposition k maintain best-in-sector service, discount of just over one third compared is encouraging customers to use less including improvements in billing, call with SSEs standard tariff, as well as other energy and thus save money.
SSE is handling times and enhancements help including benefit entitlement checks examining options for developing a to e-services: and free energy efficient appliances broader proposition centred on enabling k increase further the number of and home insulation.
The number of customers to take control over their customers on better plan: customer accounts benefiting from energy use and secure very significant k deliver energy efficiency improvements energyplus care increased by 77,000 reductions in their consumption.
through the CERT and other to 103,000 during 2008 09.
Against this background, in April 2008, programmes: it agreed to invest 1m in Onzo Limited k continue to ensure customers energy This fulfilled SSEs agreement with Onzo, in return for a 24.5% share of the accounts are well-managed: the UK government to operate schemes business.
Onzo is a systems development k increase the number of customers with a total value of over 16m to help business, with specific intellectual in Great Britain: and vulnerable customers in 2008 09.
Under property relating to the development k increase the number of customers this agreement, that will increase to of display devices that support smart in the Irish all-energy market.
In summary, SSE aims to build on its It is SSEs policy to do all it can to help The relationship between technology position as the energy supplier with the customers who may be having difficulties and peoples behaviour is frequently strong regional brands, best-in-sector in paying for the electricity and gas they demonstrated, as the changes effected service, fair pricing policy and range of use by offering tailor-made payment by the launch of the iPod just eight years value-adding offers to secure an eighth arrangements that suit their needs and ago illustrates.
The change to a low carbon successive year of customer growth.
In March 2009, economy will be challenging because of customers with almost 250,000 electricity the intangible nature of energy production, and gas accounts were taking advantage distribution and supply.
That is why of these arrangements.
developments which allow customers to take real control over their energy Product Development consumption are of particular significance Energy supply remains intensely in the context of energy policy goals in competitive and gaining and retaining the UK, Ireland and elsewhere.
customers loyalty is key to long-term success.
At a time of higher energy prices, Ireland better plan is at the centre of the portfolio Following the acquisitions in 2007 08 of of products and services which SSE Airtricity and CHP Supply Ltd and a year currently markets.
It offers a variety of of steady growth SSE has increased its incentives to help customers use less customer base in the all-island electricity energy and earn credits as a result.
The market in Ireland by 25% to 50,000, credits are then applied as a reduction including almost 10,000 in Northern to the customers energy bills.
While the majority of these customers are commercial, SSE began to SSE launched better plan towards the supply electricity to domestic customers end of 2007 as part of its commitment during 2008.
It also now supplies gas to to work in partnership with its customers industrial and commercial customers to help them reduce their energy use in Ireland and expects to supply it to and to create a more sustainable level domestic customers later in 2009. BUSINESS REVIEW
