Scottish and Southern Energy 18 Annual Report 2009 Financial Overview Financial Results for 2008 09 These results for the year to 31 March 2009 are reported under International Adjusted profit Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU.
SSEs focus has consistently been on profit before tax before exceptional items, the impact of International Accounting Standards IAS 32 bef ore tax grew and IAS 39, and after the removal of taxation on profits from jointly controlled entities and associates adjusted profit before tax.
The table opposite reconciles by 2.0% SSEs reported profit before tax and its adjusted profit before tax.
Like all major energy suppliers, SSE has to enter into forward commodity contracts principally coal, oil, gas, carbon and wholesale electricity to ensure the future requirements of customers are met.
Some of these contracts are deemed to be derivative financial instruments and so must be fair-valued under IAS 39.
This means that the prevailing forward market price at 31 March 2009 is applied to these contracts.
SSE sets out these fair-value adjustments separately, as re-measurements, because they are unrealised and non-cash.
The statutory results include charges to operating profit relating to these fairvalue adjustments of 1,263.2m, which compares with 164.1m in the previous year.
This mainly represents unrealised SSEs adjusted profit before tax grew mark-to-market losses created by commodity contracts, most of which by 2.0%, to 1,253.7m.
This is SSEs were entered into in the first half of the financial year and which were priced tenth successive increase since it above the wholesale market value of commodities as at the financial year-end.
The extent of the actual profit or loss arising over the life of these contracts many of which were entered into to provide fixed price energy to industrial and commercial customers will not be determined until they unwind: for over 60% of the total energy volume, this will be in 2009 10.
Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork Adjusted Profit Before Tax in 2008 09 Adjusted profit before tax rose by 2.0%, from 1,229.2m to 1,253.7m.
This is We give our customers service that we are proud of and modest growth, consistent with the make commitments that we deliver.
This means making objective which SSE stated at its Annual commitments that are of value to customers and that they General Meeting in July 2008. can trust in the knowledge that they are being served by people who genuinely care.
In November 2008, SSE highlighted three particular issues that had influenced uSwitch.
com Customer profitability in the first six months of the Service Ranking financial year although none of these issues can be viewed in isolation and 2009 1st 1st need to be considered in the context of 2008 1st the conditions in the wholesale energy markets prevailing at the time.
In the 2007 1st second half of the financial year:
