Scottish and Southern Energy 48 Annual Report 2009 Energy-Related Services Introduction As well as being involved in Generation, Supply and Networks, SSE also provides Operating profit an additional range of energy-related services which complement its other businesses: Contracting, Connections and Metering, including Utility Solutions: Energy and Home Services: and Gas up 8.9% in Storage.
These are important services, on which customers depend, so that their increasingly complex energy requirements can be met.
Contracting, Energy-Related Services Key Performance Indicators March 09 March 08 Connections SEC order book m 101 99 New electrical connections 36,000 42,800 and Metering New gas connections 7,300 8,200 Out-of-area networks in operation 47 33 Telecoms customers 217,000 165,000 Home services customers 115,000 70,000 Gas storage customer SSEs operating profit derived from its nominations met % 100 100 Contracting, Connections and Metering activities grew by 8.9%, to 74.8m.
SSEs Southern Electric Contracting Contracting, Connections is one of the UKs leading electrical and Metering and mechanical contractors.
Operating profit in Contracting, Connections and Metering rose by 8.9%, from 68.7m to 74.8m, during 2008 09.
Introduction to Contracting SSEs Contracting business, Southern Electric Contracting SEC has three main areas of activity: industrial, commercial and domestic mechanical and electrical contracting: electrical and instrumentation engineering: and public and highway lighting.
Now employing 4,700 people, it is one of the largest mechanical and Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork electrical contracting businesses in the UK.
It operates from 57 regional offices throughout Great Britain and also trades We support and value our colleagues and enjoy working as SWALEC Contracting in Wales and together as a team in an open and honest way.
This means Scottish Hydro Contracting in Scotland.
working as a team to fulfil SSEs core purpose providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
Contracting Performance During 2008 09 SEC made solid progress during 2008 09, with its order book ending the year at Total Number of Employees 101m, which was slightly higher than headcount the year before, despite the onset of the economic recession.
The order book was 2009 18,795 18,795 supported by significant new contract wins 2008 16,892 with a number of major organisations in recent months, ranging from Network Rail 2007 13,427 to the University of Bristol.
Scottish and Southern Energy 49 Annual Report 2009 A major proportion of SECs business is Energy-Related Services from public sector bodies and end-user client organisations with a high degree of repeat business or long-term contracts.
Dependability, Security, Innovation This puts it in a relatively good position to withstand the economic downturn.
SSE provides energy and utility-related services.
Nevertheless, there is clearly a risk that It owns and operates the UKs largest onshore the business order book and profitability will be affected as a result of the recession.
gas storage facility and is developing a second As a result, cost control and customer such facility.
Its Contracting group operates relationships are a particularly high priority for SEC during 2009 10. from almost 60 regional of ces throughout Great Britain.
SSE Utility Solutions provides a SEC remains the UKs leading streetlighting contractor, and in 2008 09 retained one-stop approach for customers in the land four maintenance contracts with local development and construction sectors.
SSE authorities, gained three and lost one, giving it a total of 24 contracts covering Home Services has over 330,000 customers.
over one million lighting columns as at 31 March 2009.
In addition, through its partnership with the asset finance division of The Royal 30 325mcm 47 Bank of Scotland, SEC operates street Lighting contracts Gas storage capacity Networks lighting maintenance and replacement projects for four local authorities in England under the Private Finance Initiative and has a further three such Energy-Related Services projects following its acquisition of Seeboard Trading Limited in 2007 08.
In total, these projects cover around 300,000 street lighting columns and all have at least 20 years to run.
Contracting Priorities in 2009 10 and Beyond The first priority for SEC in 2009 10 is to ensure that it delivers a high standard of service to all customers in all of the sectors in which it operates.
In an Key Priorities economic downturn, it is important to k Development of additional gas storage capacity maximise business opportunities with k High service standards to maximise repeat contracting business existing customers, and a top quality level k Building up one stop approach to utility provision of service is fundamental to that.
This, k Continued expansion of Home Services in turn, should enable SEC to consolidate its position among the leading GB-wide electrical and mechanical contractors.
During 2009 10 a total of eight PFI contracts will be determined and SEC is aiming to add to its existing portfolio in this area.
It is also aiming to retain street lighting maintenance contracts.
Introduction to Connections, Including Utility Solutions As its name implies SSEs Connections business provides electricity connections The first priority for Contracting in 2009 10 is to for homes, offices and businesses.
Separately, during 2008 09, SSE combined ensure that it delivers a high standard of service to its existing out-of-area embedded all customers in all of the sectors in which it operates.
electricity networks previously known as National Networks, its licensed gas In an economic downturn, it is important to maximise transportation business SSE Pipelines, SSE Water and its commercial energy business opportunities with existing customers, and services company ESCo business in order to provide a one-stop solution for a top quality level of service is fundamental to that.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 50 Annual Report 2009 Energy-Related Services continued multi-utility infrastructure requirements.
Out-of-area Networks In line with that, the combined business, now named SSE Utility Solutions, provides electricity, gas, water, heat and fibre-to SSE owns and operates electricity networks outside home solutions.
its Southern Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric network operator areas.
These networks are Electricity Connections throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
During 2008 09, SSE completed 36,000 electrical connections, compared with 42,800 in the previous year.
This was the second successive year in which the number of connections completed fell, and the recession means SSE expects a 2009 47 further decline in 2009 10 although the financial impact of any decline should be 2008 33 partly offset by connection work relating to wind farms.
2007 24 2006 19 Utility Solutions Electricity Networks SSE has continued to develop its 2005 16 portfolio of electricity networks outside the Southern Electric and Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution areas.
It now owns and manages 47 energised electricity networks outside these two over the long term, a more comprehensive to participate in other markets such areas, with development work ongoing multi-utility solution to customers in the as health, education and defence.
at a number of these, and a further property development and house-building seven are under construction, sectors, through being able to install, own, Utility Solutions Priorities for 2009 10 including residential and commercial operate and supply water and sewerage and Beyond developments across England, Scotland services alongside its existing electricity The key priority is to complete the and Wales.
In total, SSE has 390MW of and gas services.
combination of business activities under energised networks capacity, including the SSE Utility Solutions name and develop 3MW currently under construction.
An inset appointment is the route by the comprehensive package of services Nevertheless, a reduction in new which one company replaces another available to customers, all with the development activity in the UK economy as the appointed water and or sewerage objective of creating a profitable business is clearly evident and this will have an company for a specified area.
SSE Water with activities throughout the UK.
impact on SSEs shorter-term growth was granted its first inset appointment ambitions in this area, although its in October 2007 to become the water Introduction to Metering market share has been increasing and sewerage provider to a housing SSEs Metering business provides and it expects this to continue.
In March services to most electricity suppliers 2009, Ofwat varied the inset appointment with customers in central southern Utility Solutions Gas Pipelines of SSE Water, allowing it to serve a large England and the north of Scotland SSE is also a licensed gas transporter development consisting of houses and and has undertaken a programme of and installs, owns and operates gas commercial premises in south Wales, in-sourcing of meter reading operations mains and services on new housing and at Llanilid.
and meter operator work in other parts of commercial developments throughout the the UK.
It supplies, installs and maintains UK.
Although at a slower rate than in Utility Solutions Energy Services domestic meters and carries out metering previous years, the total number of new SSE provides site-wide energy work in the commercial, industrial and premises connected to its gas networks infrastructure for industrial, commercial, generation sectors.
It also offers data has continued to grow, and during public sector and domestic customers.
collection services to the domestic and 2008 09, it connected a further 7,300 Utility Solutions currently operates and SME sectors.
premises, taking the total number of maintains commercial and domestic connections to more than 60,000.
This is heating along with a 4.5MW Combined Metering Performance During 2008 09 despite an increasing number of building Heat and Power CHP facility at In total, SSE owns 3.76 million meters and sites being mothballed, and building Woolwich, and it is developing biomass, changes around 280,000 meters each year projects being deferred, which means heat pump and wind energy solutions as they reach the end of their useful life or the number of gas connections completed for communities and commercial to meet customers requests for changed in 2009 10 is likely to be lower than in the enterprises most of customers CHP functionality.
During 2008 09, it collected previous year.
assets are now managed within SSEs around 6.4 million electricity readings Generation and Supply business.
and 2.6 million gas readings, up from Utility Solutions Water The impact of the economic slowdown 5.8 million and 2.3 million respectively SSE Water SSEW is the first new on the UKs construction sector means in the previous year.
company to offer both water and that projects to develop new residential sewerage services since privatisation CHP schemes are fewer than was the This increase partly reflects the fact that, in England and Wales in 1989, and its case a year ago and SSE is now seeking over the past two years, SSE has in-sourced establishment will enable SSE to provide, Scottish and Southern Energy 51 Annual Report 2009 meter reading and meter operations work Smart metering is an emerging system that enables relating to its own customers in a number of parts of Great Britain.
This process has the quantity and value of electricity and gas used by so far taken the total number of people the customer to be continuously monitored and allows employed in the Metering business to over 1,000 as at March 2009 and means information about its use and cost to be available to SSE is able to read over 70% of meters relating to its customers electricity and the customer and exchanged with the supplier, through gas accounts.
This programme of in-sourcing is continuing, so that by the end of 2009 10, SSE expects to be undertaking meter SSE strongly supports smart meters, of a reorganisation of SSEs Home Services reading work in all but three of the and the opportunity they provide to help businesses, including appliance retailing.
former electricity supply regions in customers cut their energy consumption, Great Britain and meter operator work while reducing the number of service-based Energy and Home Services Performance in all but four.
tasks which are largely administrative and During 2008 09 reactive in nature, and replacing them with SSEs gas boiler, central heating and wiring An accurately-read meter is the more substantive energy advice, products protection service shield is now in its third cornerstone of good service in energy and services.
They have the potential to year of operation and at 31 March 2009 had supply.
This programme of in-sourcing help transform the relationship between 115,000 customers, an increase of 45,000 delivers significant savings against customers and their energy supplier.
The service now covers contractor costs and supports the energy 43 postcode areas, enabling 65% of SSEs supply brands by delivering improved Metering Priorities in 2009 10 and Beyond existing energy customers to benefit from it.
customer service, partly through the For Metering, the key priority is the face-to-face contact that takes place successful progress of in-sourcing The talk telecoms package, under which between SSE and its customers and of work in various parts of Great Britain, telephone line rental and calls services partly through the delivery of a more in line with SSEs long-term objective are supplied, now has 217,000 customers, reliable meter reading service.
At the of building a national metering business, an increase of 52,000 on the previous year.
same time, it provides a foundation from and maximising the number of bills issued In March 2009, SSE also launched a new which SSE will be able to deploy other to customers on the basis of an actual broadband service under which customers energy-related services and products as opposed to estimated meter reading.
are offered unlimited high-speed wireless as customers increasingly seek help It is also important that SSEs participation broadband, supported by a three-year and advice to reduce their consumption in the Energy Demand Reduction Project partnership agreed with BT Wholesale.
continues to be successful, with the lessons learned from it being used to Sales of electrical and gas appliances Smart Metering support a full roll-out of smart meters have struggled in the light of the recession Smart metering is an emerging system throughout the country.
and in line with the downturn in sales that enables the quantity and value of experienced across the retail sector, electricity and gas used by the customer and this prompted a reorganisation to be continuously monitored and allows of SSEs activities in this area.
information about its use and cost to be Energy and Home Services available to the customer and exchanged Higher energy prices reached in 2008 09 with the supplier, through two-way had the effect of renewing customers electronic communications.
and communities interest in the potential Introduction to Energy and Home for wind to help meet their electricity SSE is a leading participant in the UK Services needs in a sustainable way.
For example, government-sponsored Energy Demand Energy services is a frequently used after a number of public consultations, Reduction Project, in which smart meters term, which has different meanings within residents on the Orkney island of Sanday are the subject of a trial, and in 2008 09 different organisations.
For SSE it means voted in favour of a joint community installed around 9,000 smart meters in products and services which complement wind project with SSE and a planning homes in Perthshire, Oxfordshire and the supply of electricity and gas.
application for a community wind turbine in south Wales.
SSEs energy and home services team The Energy Act 2008 includes powers offers a range of maintenance and Energy Services Priorities for 2009 10 to enable the Secretary of State for protection services for customers gas and Beyond Energy and Climate Change to make the and electrical systems and a full range SSEs key priorities in energy services necessary arrangements to facilitate the of gas and electrical installation services.
during 2009 10 are to: installation of smart meters throughout It also offers electricity and gas appliances Great Britain.
The UK government has and telecoms products and communityk increase customer numbers: said that smart meters will be rolled focused renewable energy schemes.
k develop the range of products available: out to all domestic customers by the end k continue to move the shield business of 2020 and in May 2009 embarked on a Adjusted profit before tax during towards profitability: and consultation to consider the best model 2008 09 reflects the requirements to k commence construction on the first for rolling out smart meters to 26 million make a provision of 9.6m in respect community wind energy schemes.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 52 Annual Report 2009 Energy-Related Services continued At Hornsea, gas can be injected at a rate of 2mcm Gas Storage per day and withdrawn at a rate of 18mcm per day, which is equivalent to the requirements of around Introduction to Gas Storage four million homes.
The services offered at Hornsea It is generally recognised that the UK has insufficient gas storage.
This underprovide customers with a reliable source of flexibility capacity reflects the reliance it was able with which to manage their gas supply demand and to place in past years on gas production from the North Sea.
As North Sea gas respond to market opportunities.
declines, UK imports will continue to increase to meet demand from domestic customers, the increasing number of gasfired power stations and other industrial and commercial users.
At the same time, except in instances of planned maintenance.
Aldbrough, able to inject and deliver gas the wholesale gas market has become This enabled customers to manage their rapidly to meet fluctuations in demand increasingly volatile, with significant rises gas market risks and respond to gas and supply, will provide a valuable source in prices for gas in the UK, particularly trading opportunities.
of flexibility to the UK gas market.
during days of higher demand and colder-than-forecast weather.
Gas Storage Investment SSE and Statoil UK Ltd now expect to SSEs joint venture with Statoil UK Ltd to invest a total of over 300m to complete All of this means there will be a growing develop at Aldbrough what will become the the Aldbrough phase one development, demand in the UK for more gas storage UKs largest onshore gas storage facility with SSE owning two thirds of the facilities to help provide security of supply made further important progress during capacity and Statoil UK Ltd owning of gas.
Such facilities therefore have a the year, but at a slower rate than originally one third.
long-term value, especially if their cycle expected with the development as a whole rate the speed at which gas can be is taking longer than was expected when Investment in gas storage in the UK will withdrawn from storage and then it started in 2004.
This is the result of a benefit from the decision by HM Revenue replaced is fast enough.
series of issues, including leaching of and Customs in April 2009 to recognise caverns requiring more time than planned the purchase of cushion gas, required SSE owns and operates the UKs largest and problems with the installation and to maintain pressure within storage onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea operation of some equipment such as caverns, as part of the capital cost of a in East Yorkshire, in which around 325 valves and compressors.
This means it is eligible for million cubic metres mcm of gas can tax relief through plant and machinery be contained in a total of nine caverns and Nevertheless, the gas export capability capital allowances.
with Statoil UK Ltd is developing another of the facility has now been successfully gas storage facility at Aldbrough.
To form tested and the first 60mcm of storage SSE and Statoil UK Ltd have secured such caverns, salt deposits around 2km capacity has been importing and consent to increase the storage capacity underground are leached out by seawater exporting gas during the commissioning at the Aldbrough site beyond that currently which, in turn, is replaced by gas under phase and should be in commercial under development.
If developed in full, pressure.
Hornsea accounts for around operation in June 2009.
Aldbrough will this would approximately double the 15% of the total gas storage capacity provide the first new gas storage facility amount of gas that can be stored, to well in the UK.
to become available in the UK for four over 700mcm.
SSE believes that there years.
Capacity in another two caverns is a case for investing in additional gas At Hornsea, gas can be injected at a rate is currently expected to become available storage facility and is aiming to take of 2mcm per day and withdrawn at a rate by the end of 2009 10. a final decision on whether and how to of 18mcm per day, which is equivalent to invest in a second phase of development the requirements of around four million When fully commissioned, currently at Aldbrough during 2009 10. homes.
The services offered at Hornsea expected to be in 2012, it will have the provide customers with a reliable source capacity to inject gas and store up to Gas Storage Priorities in 2009 10 of flexibility with which to manage their 370mcm in nine underground caverns.
and Beyond gas supply demand and respond to Aldbrough will be the largest onshore SSEs priorities in Gas Storage during market opportunities.
gas storage facility in the UK and have 2009 10 are to: the capacity to deliver gas to the National Gas Storage Operations Transmission System at a rate of 40mcm k maintain its excellent record Gas Storage delivered an operating profit per day, equivalent to the average daily of reliability at Hornsea: of 42.7m, during 2008 09, compared with consumption of eight million homes and k maximise the amount of capacity 50.9m in the previous year.
The reduction the ability to have up to 30mcm of gas at Aldbrough that is available for reflects the lower prices achieved at the per day injected.
commercial storage: and start of the new storage year.
k make a decision on whether to As the UK becomes increasingly proceed with the Aldbrough extension.
One of SSEs priorities for 2008 09 was dependent on imported gas to meet to ensure that Hornsea maintained its growing demand from new power stations Longer-term, SSE will also continue excellent record of dependability, and during and industry, gas storage will play an to look for other opportunities to add the year it was 100% available to customers, essential role in meeting its energy needs.
to its gas storage capacity.
