Scottish and Southern Energy 64 Annual Report 2009 Directors Biographies and Responsibilities Ren Mdori Ian Marchant Lord Smith of Kelvin Audit Committee Chairman Chief Executive Chairman Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Ian was appointed Chief Executive in 2002, Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in 2003.
He is Finance Director of having been Finance Director since 1998.
He has Director in June 2003, was appointed Deputy Anglo American plc and is a non-Executive worked in the energy industry since 1992, when Chairman in November 2003 and became Director of Anglo Platinum and DB fide Beers he joined Southern Electric.
He is a member and Chairman in 2005.
He is Chairman of the Weir Investments.
He is Chairman of the Audit former Chairman of the UK Business Council Group plc and a non-Executive Director of 3i Committee and a member of the Nomination for Sustainable Energy, Chairman of the Scottish Group plc, Standard Bank Group Limited and Committee.
Climate Change Business Delivery Group, and Aegon UK plc.
He is also Chairman of Glasgow a member of Ofgems Environmental Advisory 2014 Ltd, Chancellor of the University of the Gregor Alexander Group and the Energy Research Partnership.
West of Scotland and a member of the Council Finance Director He is also a non-Executive Director of John of Economic Advisers to the First Minister Gregor was appointed Finance Director and Wood Group plc and Maggies Cancer Centres.
Robert is Chairman of the joined the Board in 2002, having previously Ian is a member of the Nomination Committee Nomination Committee and a member been Group Treasurer and Tax Manager.
and is Lead Director for the Environment and of the Remuneration Committee.
He has worked in the energy industry Corporate Responsibility.
since 1990, when he joined Scottish Hydro Richard Gillingwater Electric.
Gregor is a Director of Scotia Gas Colin Hood Non-Executive Director Networks Limited and is former Chairman Chief Operating Of cer Richard joined the Board as a non-Executive of the Scottish Finance Directors Group.
Colin was appointed Chief Operating Officer in Director in 2007.
He is Dean of the Cass 2002, having joined the Board as Power Systems Business School and is non-Executive Chairman Alistair Phillips-Davies Director in 2001.
He has worked in the energy of CDC Group plc, a non-Executive Director of Energy Supply Director industry since 1977, when he joined Scottish Debenhams plc and Tomkins plc.
Richard is a Alistair was appointed Energy Supply Director Hydro Electric.
He has Board level responsibility member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration and joined the Board in 2002, having previously for Generation, Power Systems, Customer Committee, and Nomination Committee.
He has worked in Service, Human Resources, IT, Contracting the energy industry since 1997, when he joined and Telecoms.
Colin is a Director and former Susan Rice CBE Southern Electric.
Alistair has Board level Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks Limited, Non-Executive Director responsibility for Energy Trading, Electricity and a non-Executive Director of First Group plc Susan joined the Board as non-Executive Director Gas Supply, Energy Efficiency, Sales, Marketing and a member of the Forum for Renewable in 2003 and became Senior Independent Director and Energy Services.
He chairs the Risk and Energy Developments in Scotland FREDS.
She is Managing Director of the Lloyds Trading Committee.
He is Lead Director for Health and Safety.
Banking Group Scotland and Chairman and Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc.
She is also a non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of England and chairs the Board of the Edinburgh International Book Festival, along Scottish and Southern Energy 65 Annual Report 2009 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Members of the Board photographed at SSEs new operations centre in Havant, The parent company financial statements are required by law to which will be formally opened late in 2009. give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
From left to right: Ren Mdori, Gregor Alexander, In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Alistair Phillips-Davies, Ian Marchant, statements, the Directors are required to: Colin Hood, Lord Smith of Kelvin, Richard Gillingwater, Susan Rice, k select suitable accounting policies and then apply Thomas Andersen, Nick Baldwin.
them consistently: k make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: k state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and with several other organisations.
Susan chairs k prepare the financial statements on the going concern the Remuneration Committee and is a member basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group of the Nomination Committee.
and the parent company will continue in business.
Thomas Andersen Non-Executive Director The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Thomas joined the Board as a non-Executive records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Director in January 2009.
He is Chief Executive the financial position of the parent company and enable them to of Maersk Oil, a member of the Group Executive ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Board AP Moller-Maersk, as well as director or Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps chairman of a number of companies within the as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the AP Moller-Maersk Group.
He is a member of Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and of the Health, Safety and Environmental Under applicable law and regulation, the Directors are also Advisory Committee.
responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Nick Baldwin Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement Non-Executive Director that comply with that law and those regulations.
Nick joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in 2006.
Previously, he worked in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and the energy industry, culminating in being integrity of the corporate and financial information included Chief Executive of Powergen plc.
Nick is on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing a non-Executive Director of the Nuclear the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Decommissioning Authority, the Forensic may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Science Service and Sanctuary Housing Group and is Chairman of the Public Weather Service Customer Group.
He is also Chairman of TreeHouse Trust.
Nick is a member of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
