Scottish and Southern Energy 68 Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report Remuneration Explained Introduction group pay and performance.
The This has been achieved by providing The following is the report of the Board of Company Secretary, Vincent Donnelly, remuneration consisting of basic salary Directors in compliance with the Directors provided information to the Committee and benefits including participation in Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. on developments in corporate governance a pension scheme, together with an The report sets out the companys policy guidelines as they affect the Remuneration Annual Bonus Scheme some of which is on Executive Directors remuneration for Committee.
During the year the Committee compulsorily deferred and a Performance the year ended 31 March 2009 and, so far received advice and views from Towers Share Plan.
The Annual Bonus Scheme as is reasonable, for subsequent years.
Perrin and from Merrill Lynch, on relevant requires the achievement of demanding Any changes in policy for years after 2009 aspects of remuneration policy.
Both Towers performance targets against the will be described in future Remuneration Perrin and Merrill Lynch were appointed by companys core values of safety, service, Reports which will continue to be subject the company on behalf of the Committee.
efficiency, sustainability, excellence and to shareholder approval.
The Performance Share Plan During the year, the committee meetings has two challenging performance criteria covered the following topics as indicated firstly Total Shareholder Return TSR in the chart on the previous page: measured against the FTSE 100 and The Role of the secondly Earnings Per Share EPS Remuneration Committee k review of Total Remuneration Policy Growth in excess of RPI.
for Executive Directors: k Executive Directors and Chairmans BENCHMARKING TOTAL REMUNERATION salary review: The Remuneration Committees members k SSE company Remuneration Policy: The Executive Directors total remuneration are Susan Rice, who chairs the Committee, k Bonus target setting and awards: policy is to remain below median of FTSE Nick Baldwin, Richard Gillingwater and k awards under the Performance 100 and FTSE 50.
This demonstrates SSEs Lord Smith of Kelvin.
Biographical details Share Plan: long-standing commitment to manage costs of the current Committee members are k the operation of the Performance Share effectively to promote financial returns for given on pages 64 and 65.
The Committee Plan, and its performance criteria: and shareholders.
Further it reflects a culture met on three occasions, further details on k review of the Remuneration Report.
in which Executive Directors and Senior the meetings and the agenda are contained Managers are motivated by building the in the schedule on page 67.
In addition to The Board as a whole reviews the fees company for the future.
This is why longthe formal meetings, informal consultation of the non-Executive Directors, whilst term growth and sustainability of the takes place outwith Remuneration ensuring that no Director is involved business are of such importance when Committee meetings.
in decisions on their own pay.
Under its Terms of Reference published in The Remuneration Committees In addition to corporate and individual the Corporate Governance section of the SSE composition, responsibilities and performance, the Committee takes website at www.
co. uk operation comply with Section B of the account of total remuneration in the Committee is responsible for: Corporate Governance Code.
In forming companies that are of similar size remuneration policy, the Committee principally in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 50, k setting the total remuneration policy has given full consideration to the best some specific comparisons in the utilities on behalf of the Board: practice provisions set out in the Code.
sector, and also general market data from k approving the detailed remuneration surveys.
The Committee acknowledges terms of the Executive Directors too that SSE operates predominantly including their service contracts: in the UK with a growing portfolio of Total Remuneration Policy k approving the remuneration of overseas renewable development the Chairman: opportunities secured through Airtricity.
k approving the design and performance At some future point this overseas targets of incentive schemes: and expansion may be reflected in the k granting awards under the companys THE PRINCIPLES OF THE POLICY comparator groups.
The core principles of the companys THE BALANCE OF FIXED AND The Remuneration Committee regularly remuneration policy are to: VARIABLE REMUNERATION consults the Chief Executive, Ian Marchant, who attends and assists the Committee in k attract and retain Executive Directors Given the nature of the companys respect of those Directors reporting to him, who are able to run the company business, the Committee believes that although he is not present when his own effectively for the benefit of shareholders, around half of the total remuneration remuneration is under discussion.
customers and employees: should be performance-related, with k adopt a competitive and practical up to two thirds where performance is In addition, the Director of People, Graham approach to overall remuneration exceptional.
This is demonstrated in the Juggins, and SSEs Senior Executive which meets the expectations table on page 67 which shows how the Remuneration Adviser, Jane Williams, of shareholders: and variable pay increases according to the provided information and advice on the k reinforce the culture and teamwork achievement of stretch targets.
The Directors remuneration, including required to deliver the long-term Committee is satisfied that the overall comparative data drawn from published growth and sustainability of the remuneration structure is set at levels remuneration and benefit surveys, and business, and hence base salaries which are reasonable and appropriate to reward performance sufficiently without advice on appropriate awards of bonuses, for Executive Directors are set at or causing any undue risk taking.
long-term incentives and comparator below the relevant market median.
Scottish and Southern Energy 69 Annual Report 2009 Executive Directors Remuneration 2008 09 Performance Measure Purpose Link to Strategy Award Policy Base Salary Reflects market data, role, business and Reviewed annually 1 January individual performance Short-term Annual Bonus The specific standards of performance The performance targets are clearly Maximum award of up to 100% of base set by the Remuneration Committee linked to business objectives in the salary.
75% in cash non-pensionable, are commercially confidential.
There three elements as follows: 25% compulsorily deferred into shares are three elements to the Annual Bonus which only vest, subject to continued as follows: service, after three years: Corporate Corporate Corporate k group financial performance relative k delivery of stretching financial k 60% for corporate financial to budgeted profit before tax performance target performance the maximum corporate financial element is payable if performance exceeds by 10% or more the budgeted profit before tax target.
No corporate element is payable if performance falls 5% below target.
Teamwork Teamwork Teamwork k safety performance k designed to reflect and support k 20% for teamwork k customer service company core values and delivery k operational efficiency of overall objectives for the Group k business development sustainability k promotion of innovation k effective leadership Personal Personal Personal k based on measurable and verifiable k objectives across a number of priority k 20% for personal objectives data relating to company values operational areas that link to the annual plan and strategy agreed by the Board Long-term Performance Share Plan Performance is measured against the The two elements reflect both internal Maximum award up to 150% of base following two elements over a three year and external measures of performance.
period: Awards released to the extent performance conditions are met.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The relative TSR performance measure is 50% based on TSR against the FTSE 100 dependent on the companys relative longk 100% vests at or above the 75th term share price performance and dividend percentile return, and therefore brings a market k 25% vests at median perspective to the PSP.
Further vesting k straight-line basis between median of this element requires the Committee and 75th percentile to be satisfied with the companys k no vesting of award if median underlying financial performance.
performance is not achieved Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS Adjusted EPS growth is a key internal 50% based on EPS measure which is critical to the companys k 100%: vests where EPS is RPI 9% long-term success and ties in with the above RPI Groups strategic goals.
k 25% vests where EPS is RPI 3% k straight-line basis between 3% and 9% above RPI These target ranges are designed to strike k no vesting if EPS minimum growth the right balance between being stretching of RPI 3% is not achieved at the top end, and being achievable and motivational at the lower end.
GOVERNANCE Scottish and Southern Energy 70 Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report Remuneration Explained continued SENIOR EXECUTIVES, MANAGERS Executive Directors Salaries AND EMPLOYEES Ian Marchant 840,000 There are a number of senior executives Gregor Alexander 483,000 below Board level who have a significant Colin Hood 630,000 influence on the performance of the Alistair Phillips-Davies 483,000 Group.
The Committee remains fully aware of the need to ensure there is an appropriate relationship between cognisance of the market and governance senior executives.
Since 2007, allocations Executive Director remuneration, and trends when reviewing remuneration in equivalent to 150% of salary have been the levels of other senior executives, the forthcoming year.
made to Executive Directors and at lower managers and other employees rates to other senior executives.
The remuneration within the Group.
The CURRENT INCENTIVE PLANS Committee intends that awards under Committee considers this information the PSP in 2009 should be on similar when reviewing the remuneration of the Short-term Incentive Annual Bonus Plan terms.
Awards will be released after Executive Directors and is satisfied that The important factors which determine three years subject to the meeting of an appropriate remuneration and benefits the bonus award under the Annual Bonus demanding performance conditions structure exists to recognise and retain Plan are detailed on page 69.
The bonus relating to the companys relative total its key executives.
for 2008 09 was based on corporate shareholder return TSR performance financial, teamwork and personal targets and the companys adjusted EPS growth.
In addition the Committee considers set at the beginning of the year.
The Further details of the performance the levels and type of remuneration bonus paid for these elements was 60% targets are in the table on page 69. increases for employees within the Group of salary, compared with a maximum and any relevant external indices before possible of 100%, and with 75% paid in The Committee considers that the use committing to any salary increases for respect of 2007 08.
It was also lower than of these two performance measures, the Executive Directors.
that applied to other annual bonuses in these proportions, to be appropriate.
The relative TSR performance measure BASE SALARY is dependent on the companys relative This was on the basis of an assessment long-term share price performance, and The Committee conducted its regular by the Committee, which concluded that therefore brings a market perspective to review of salaries for Executive Directors the majority of operational and financial the PSP.
Further, vesting of this element in November 2008 as indicated on the targets were met during the year and that requires the Committee to be satisfied Remuneration Committee Agenda important steps were taken to position the with the underlying financial performance Table on page 67 and decided that company for future long-term success.
The TSR measure is Executive Directors salaries should There will however be continued focus on balanced by a key internal measure, increase for the following reasons: performance throughout SSEs operations adjusted EPS growth, which is critical to firstly that the salary, bonus and including critical areas such as safety, the companys long-term success and performance share plans when customer service, generation plant ties in with the Groups strategic goals.
benchmarked to the FTSE 100 and availability and progress in renewable The Committee considers that the FTSE 50 remain below market median.
achievement of real annual adjusted Secondly, SSE consistently achieves EPS growth of 9% above RPI per annum challenging financial and business For 2009 10 the structure of the bonus was, and remains, a suitably demanding targets and is continuing with its longplan remains at 60% for corporate target for maximum vesting in light of term growth plans.
Thirdly, each of the financial performance, 20% based on the regulatory regime in which the Executive Directors have held senior teamwork, including performance in company operates.
management roles in which they Group safety and commitment to the have delivered significant results to Group values, and 20% on individual The first award under the PSP was made shareholders for many years.
For 2009 10 the maximum in 2006, and will vest shortly after the 1998 SSE is one of only 11 FTSE 100 and target bonus opportunity will remain preliminary announcement of results companies to have delivered annually at 100% and 50% respectively of base for 2008 09 in May 2009.
Both elements dividend growth in excess of inflation.
salary for the Executive Directors.
of the performance condition relating to Finally the Committee took into account TSR and EPS performance respectively other salary reviews in the Group when Of any bonus awarded, 75% is paid in were met.
TSR outturn was in the upper considering an appropriate award.
The cash and 25% deferred into shares which quartile of the FTSE 100, and EPS growth normal management salary review was vest only after three years subject to was in excess of RPI 8% at 10.7% per 5%.
The main collective union agreement continued service.
The Committee has concluded award was 4.4% together with individual not pensionable.
that this result is a fair reflection of the increment progression averaging 1%.
companys financial performance over The Executive Directors received a Long-term Incentives the period.
Accordingly, the full number of salary increase of 5% with effect from Performance Share Plan shares under this award will vest, together 1 January 2009.
The current salaries Under the rules of the Performance with an additional number of shares for the Executive Directors are as Share Plan, conditional allocations of reflecting the notional reinvestment of follows: Ian Marchant 840,000, Gregor shares up to a maximum of 150% of dividends during the period.
Achievement Alexander 483,000, Colin Hood 630,000, salary 100% for the 2006 award may be of these performance conditions was Alistair Phillips-Davies 483,000.
The made to Executive Directors and other independently verified.
Committee will continue to take full Scottish and Southern Energy 71 Annual Report 2009 PENSIONS POLICY Minimum Shareholding Requirement for Executive Directors Minimum number Shares held as at Membership of a relevant pension plan is of shares 31 March 2009 encouraged throughout the Group.
All the Ian Marchant 75,744 142,204 Executive Directors were members of either Gregor Alexander 43,553 46,128 the Southern Electric Pension Scheme or Colin Hood 56,808 92,585 the Scottish Hydro Electric Pension Scheme Alistair Phillips-Davies 43,553 55,502 when they were appointed to the Board, and they remain members.
These are both funded final salary pension schemes.
The The shareholding in the above table takes account of certain holdings under the Directors service contracts provide for a Deferred Bonus Scheme net of tax matured but may not have been exercised.
possible maximum pension of two thirds Calculated using share price @ 31 March 2009 1,109p.
In relation to Executive Directors who are subject to the scheme Total Shareholder Return specific salary cap which mirrors the provisions of the previous HM Revenue and SSE 300 Customs cap arrangements the company FTSE 100 provides top-up unfunded arrangements 250 which are designed to provide an equivalent pension on retirement at age 60 to that 200 which they would have earned if they had not been subject to the salary cap.
The 150 Executive Directors have no right to any special or preferential pension benefit terms 100 upon leaving.
However, in common with all Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 members of the pension schemes who joined at the time the Directors joined the TSR Performance Graph schemes, in the case of retirement through The graph above charts the cumulative TSR of the company since 1 April 2004 compared ill-health an unreduced pension based on to the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The company is a member of the FTSE 100 service to expected retirement is paid.
In the Index, and this was considered to be the most relevant index for comparative purposes.
case of reorganisation or redundancy an For the purposes of defining the constituents of the FTSE 100, companies moved from the unreduced accrued pension is paid to a FTSE as a result of a business transaction will be valued at the date of removal and then member who has reached the age of 50 indexed to the FTSE 100 annual outturn.
Those companies acquired by another FTSE or above, with at least five years service or, constituent will be disregarded as the acquiring company is a FTSE 100 participant.
for a member who has not yet reached that age, it is payable with effect from 50. including a requirement to finance Previous HM Revenue & Customs limits other senior Executives should acquire exercise of the option using the proceeds have ceased to apply to benefits provided and maintain a level of shareholding of a monthly savings contract of up by the pension schemes.
If a members approximately equivalent to one years salary, to be attained within a reasonable to 250 per month, and, in common accrued fund exceeds the new lifetime timescale.
Consent to sell shares under with all such schemes, exercise of the allowance LTA, the benefits payable by the the companys Share Dealing Code is not option is not subject to satisfaction of a scheme from that excess will be subject to normally given unless in exceptional performance target.
The option price is a higher rate of income tax.
The company circumstances or to fund a connected tax set at a discount of 10% to market value.
is maximising the use of the new allowance liability until this level of shareholding is thereby providing Executive Directors with reached.
It is also expected that all nonb The Share Incentive Plan the SIP more of their existing benefits via registered Executive Directors should hold a minimum allows employees to allocate part of schemes.
In the case of Colin Hood, who of 2,000 shares in the company.
their pre-tax salary to purchase shares was not subject to the previous earnings cap up to a maximum of 125 per month.
but is now limited by the LTA, further accrual The table above contains the shareholdings The SIP operates within specific tax is via an unfunded arrangement.
There are of the Executive Directors as at the year-end legislation.
During the first six months no arrangements to compensate members and demonstrates that their personal of the year, the company matched for any change in their personal tax liability.
shareholdings meet the requirements the first five shares purchased by of the policy.
participants, and during the second SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY half of the year participants received ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES monthly two free matching shares Share ownership is encouraged throughout for each share purchased up to a the Group.
In addition the Committee Executive Directors are eligible to participate maximum of six free shares.
believes that the interests of the Executive in the companys all-employee share Directors and other senior Executives schemes on the same terms as other c The long service award scheme which should be closely aligned with those of employees.
These schemes comprise: purchases 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 shares on shareholders.
The Performance Share Plan, behalf of an employee on the occasion Deferred Bonus Plan and employee share a The Sharesave Scheme, a savingsof the employee reaching 10, 20, 30, schemes provide considerable alignment.
related share option scheme which 40 or 50 years service respectively The company has also adopted a policy that operates within specific tax legislation with the Group.
the Executive Directors and certain GOVERNANCE Scottish and Southern Energy 72 Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report Remuneration Explained continued Length of Service and Contract Term contract is terminated for any other reason any share awards under the Performance Industry Length of Board Notice to be given Share Plan will lapse from the effective service service by the company date of contract termination.
Ian Marchant 17 13 years 12 months Gregor Alexander 18 6 years 12 months In the event of a change of control of the Colin Hood 31 8 years 12 months company, performance in the PSP will Alistair Phillips-Davies 12 7 years 12 months be measured to the date of the change of control and will normally be scaled including 3 years as Finance Director of Southern Electric plc.
down to the period prior to the change of control.
Current Non-Executive Directors Fees 2008 09 OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS Committee Annual fee Chair fee Total fees 000 000 000 Executive Directors are entitled to accept a non-Executive appointment outside the Thomas Andersen 50 50 company with the consent of the Board, Nick Baldwin 50 50 as such appointments can enhance Richard Gillingwater 50 50 directors experience and value to the Ren Mdori 50 12 62 company.
Any fees received can be Susan Rice 60 10 70 retained by the Director.
In 2008 09 Ian Lord Smith of Kelvin 321 321 Marchant held a non-Executive Director position with the John Wood Group plc, and received 44,000 in fees.
Funding of Share Schemes and Dilution schemes and Executive incentive plans: The companys Sharesave Scheme uses k They are each entitled to a company unissued shares to satisfy the exercise car or a cash allowance, membership Non-Executive Directors of share options.
As at 31 March 2009, of the companys pension scheme there were approximately 4.4 million including life assurance cover equal share options outstanding under this to four times salary, and private health scheme, and if all the outstanding options insurance which also covers were exercised this would amount to dependants: and The remuneration of non-Executive 0.48% of the issued share capital of the k The contracts are each for an Directors, apart from the company company at that date.
indefinite term ending automatically Chairman, is agreed by the Board annually, on retirement date age 60, but may with the non-Executive Directors concerned Shares are purchased in the market to be terminated by 12 months notice not participating in this process.
The fees satisfy the exercise of awards under the given by the company or by 12 months are reviewed against companies of similar Deferred Bonus Plan, the Performance notice given by the Director.
Share Plan, and the Share Incentive Plan.
The company may at its discretion elect The non-Executive Directors do not have The Committee reviewed the effect on the to terminate any Executive Directors service contracts but instead have letters EPS calculation in the Performance Share contract by making a payment in lieu of appointment.
They are appointed for Plan of the share placing of 42 million of notice equal to the basic salary which fixed terms of three years, subject to shares in January 2009.
It was confirmed would have been received during the retirement by rotation and re-appointment that the effect was minimal.
notice period excluding any bonus and at AGMs in terms of the companys Articles any other emolument referable to the of Association.
They do not participate employment.
Payments in lieu of notice in the Bonus Scheme, Deferred Bonus may be made in staged payments, and Plan, any of the share option schemes, or Service Contracts such payments will either reduce or contribute to any Group pension scheme.
cease completely in circumstances where the departing Executive Director k The standard non-Executive fee, gains new employment.
There is also a inclusive of Committee Memberships, It is the companys policy that Executive specific provision obliging the departing is 50,000.
Directors should have service contracts Executive to mitigate his her loss in these k The Chairman of the Audit Committee with the company which are terminable circumstances.
There are no special received an additional fee of 12,000. on 12 months notice given by either provisions applying in the event of change k The Chairman of the Remuneration party.
The key aspects of each contract of control.
Committee received an additional fee are as follows: of 10,000.
In the event that an Executive Director k The Senior Independent Director k The Executive Directors are employed leaves in circumstances such as retirement received an additional fee of 10,000. under service contracts with the or redundancy, the PSP shares will vest at k The Chairman received an inclusive flat company each dated 11 March 2005: their normal vesting date, and the number fee of 317,000, increasing to 332,500 k They are eligible under the contracts of shares will be reduced to reflect the with effect from January 2009. to participate in the companys point during the three year performance Executive Directors bonus scheme, period when the Director leaves.
If the the companys employee share Executive Director resigns or the service
