Scottish and Southern Energy 28 Annual Report 2009 Generation and Supply Introduction SSE owns around 10,700 megawatts MW of capacity for generating electricity, Rene wable making it the second largest generator across the UK and Ireland.
The large majority over 10,300MW of this capacity is in Great Britain, which currently has almost 80,000MW in total.
The remainder energy output 375MW is in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, where there is an allisland Single Electricity Market which is separate from the market in Great Britain.
up 28% to over SSEs total capacity includes its share of joint ventures and associates and comprises around: 5, 000GWh k 4,500MW of gasand oil-fired capacity: k 4,000MW of coal-fired capacity with biomass co-firing capability : and k 2,200MW of renewable hydro, wind and dedicated biomass capacity.
This gives SSE diversity in fuels for generating electricity and avoids dependency on a single technology.
As a result, SSE has significant optionality in the management of its power stations.
It is this diversity and the related optionality which enable SSE to manage the risks associated with primary fuel procurement during periods of volatile wholesale energy prices.
As at 31 March 2009, SSE supplied energy to 9.05 million customer accounts, making The amount of electricity generated it the second largest supplier within Great Britains competitive electricity and gas by SSE from hydro electric stations, supply market, which has around 51 million domestic and business accounts in total.
wind farms and biomass plant during It also supplied energy to 50,000 customers 2008 09 rose by 28% to 5,182GWh in Ireland.
Its responsibility as supplier to customers is to procure the electricity gigawatt-hours.
SSE is the UKs and gas they need, arrange for it to be distributed to them through the relevant largest generator of electricity from networks and provide the associated services such as metering and billing.
Wholesale gas and wholesale electricity are transacted like any other commodity in a competitive market.
SSE purchases the gas and some of the electricity it needs Safety Service Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork to supply customers via bilateral contracts of varying lengths and through trading in the wholesale markets.
It also buys gas, We aim to operate ethically, taking the long-term view coal and oil to use in the production of to achieve growth while safeguarding the environment.
electricity from its power stations.
This means actively supporting ways of changing the way in which energy is produced and consumed, including maximising Following the extension of power purchase the amount of electricity produced from renewable sources.
agreements with Seabank Power Ltd, in which SSE has a 50% stake, which took place in 2007 08, none of the long-term Total Renewable Energy Capacity MW agreements under which SSE purchases electricity is due to expire during the 2009 2,230 2,230MW 2009 10 financial year.
Power purchase 2008 2,036 agreements with Barking Power in which SSE has a 30.4% stake and Derwent 2007 1,518 Cogeneration Ltd in which SSE has a Scottish and Southern Energy 29 Annual Report 2009 These 2020 targets are, in fact, only interim 49.5% stake are, however, due to expire in of electricity, including power stations milestones in a long-term transition now September 2010.
Both agreements contain in which it has a part-ownership or under way, from a UK energy supply with extension options.
The current contract, contractual interest, compared with fossil fuels at its centre to one based under which British Energy supplied SSE 47.9TWh in the previous year including all largely on the use of renewable sources of with 4.4 terrawatt-hours TWh of electricity of Airtricitys output.
SSE also purchased energy and other low carbon technologies.
during 2008 09 and will supply 5TWh 5.9TWh of electricity through long-term during 2009 10 arranged as part of SSEs contracts with other generators.
In the In parallel with the demand for investment acquisition of the SWALEC energy supply year, it supplied 29.7TWh of electricity to its in renewable energy, the UK will need business in 2000 ends in March 2011. domestic and small business customers to provide replacement capacity for and 33.6TWh was supplied under contract conventional generation plant which is SSEs Trading and Risk Management to industrial and commercial customers.
expected to retire on a shorter timescale team is responsible for its participation in Any net balances were traded in the the next decade.
As the UK Secretary of wholesale markets for electricity and gas, wholesale electricity market.
State for Energy and Climate Change said as well as markets for coal, oil and carbon in December 2008: We must keep the dioxide emissions allowances.
Through It is likely that customers demand for lights on in a world where we are net analysis of generation plant availability, electricity and gas in the UK will be lower importers of energy.
By 2020 a third of customer demand and its contractual in 2009 10 than it was in the previous year our power plants will be closed due to position SSE can assess, and therefore as a result of both the impact of investment age or rising environmental standards.
manage, its exposure to market prices.
in energy efficiency and the downturn in the economy.
In this context, SSEs longFundamentally, the need for the UK to In summary, SSE assesses Generation standing approach of actively maintaining maintain a reasonable margin between and Supply as a single value chain within an balance in its portfolio of assets, contracts electricity generation capacity and integrated business.
This means its power and customers is of particular relevance electricity demand will reinforce the value stations and fuel supply contracts are used and means it is not over-exposed to of existing and available power-producing to support performance in electricity supply, variations in demand for energy.
In addition, a mainly through deploying flexibility and balance of fuels used within the generation optionality to respond to customer demand Generation Context In June 2008, the consultation document portfolio will remain critical in providing and market conditions.
As a result, SSE setting out the UKs renewable energy security of supply, through allowing seeks to maintain a well-balanced portfolio strategy stated that energy policy in the UK diversity of primary energy sources, of assets, contracts and customers, within faces two very serious challenges: tackling and will support the maximum possible which there is effective risk management climate change by reducing emissions of deployment of renewables through proper through diversity in earnings opportunities, carbon dioxide and ensuring the countrys integration of both energy and system and which functions and is managed as an energy supply remains secure.
All of this is likely to integrated whole.
This whole is, therefore, require the largest investment programme greater than the sum of its parts not least To address these challenges, the UK and in the generation sector since privatisation, because earnings should be more resilient to Irish governments along with all other with renewable energy at its heart.
a wide range of commodity price outcomes.
Member States are required to contribute towards the achievement of a binding target, Over the next three years, SSE believes Generation and Supply that 20% of the EUs all-energy consumption that a combination of lower demand for Performance Overview must come from renewable sources by electricity, sufficient generating plant Operating profit in Generation and Supply 2020, which was given final approval in April remaining open and new generation was 832.0m, compared with 711.1m 2009.
For the UK, the national target is 15%: capacity coming on-stream particularly in the previous year, contributing 54% of for the Republic of Ireland, it is 16%.
In new combined cycle gas turbine CCGT SSEs total operating profit in 2008 09. practice, this means increasing, to over 30%, plant and plant for generating from SSE reports the underlying financial the proportion of electricity to come from renewable sources should ensure that the performance of Generation and such sources in the UK and an increase to production of electricity will be able to meet Supply excluding the impact of IAS 39 40% is required in the Republic of Ireland.
the demand in all likely circumstances.
re-measurements which are unrealised Beyond that, the position is less predictable, as it continues to believe that this does In addition, the Climate Change Act 2008, with uncertainties affecting both the likely not represent underlying business passed by the UK Parliament, includes total of electricity generating capacity and performance.
The increase in operating not only a long-term target for emissions the likely level of demand from customers.
profit was supported by the value of the reductions but also a legally binding In addition, the growth in capacity for higher output of renewable energy delivered trajectory towards this target.
The Act generating electricity from renewable by SSE, following the acquisition of Airtricity requires the UK government to set sources will have an impact on how gasin February 2008 and the completion of carbon budgets fixing binding limits on and coal-fired capacity operates on a daynew renewable energy developments.
greenhouse gas emissions over five-year to-day basis.
In any event, the value of periods.
Alongside its Budget 2009, the established and continuing capacity is likely Total revenue for Generation and Supply UK government confirmed it would aim to be reinforced.
It is in this context that was 24.4bn, which accounted for 93% to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 34% Ofgem has launched Project Discovery, of SSEs total revenue in 2008 09, of which by 2020, compared with 1990 levels.
It was a review of the medium-term outlook for 8.5bn was in relation to sales of electricity responding to the findings of the first report energy markets in Great Britain, as the and gas to industrial, commercial and by the independent Climate Change requirement to retire power generating domestic customers.
Committee, which set out what the UKs plant to conform with environmental and carbon emissions reduction targets for other requirements becomes closer.
SSE Electricity Generated and Supplied the period to 2020 should be.
is fully involved in this review with Ofgem.
During 2008 09, SSE generated 41.2TWh BUSINESS REVIEW
