Scottish and Southern Energy 44 Annual Report 2009 Networks continued Efficiency is one of SSEs core values and amongst Electricity Networks Ofgems explicit purposes in setting Price Controls is to keep the costs of providing secure and reliable networks Objectives as low as possible.
An initial assessment of operational The amount of electricity transmitted and distributed through SSEs networks cost efficiency analysis published by Ofgem in May 2009 and the amount of gas distributed suggests that SSE continues to be the most efficient through SGNs networks is largely determined by the weather and by electricity distribution operator in Great Britain.
Variations in the volume of electricity distributed have an impact on SSEs transmission and distribution networks revenues although energy volume drivers have The increase in operating profit reflects the south: in Scotland, the volume been removed from the price controls changes in the price of units distributed.
of electricity and gas distributed fell.
Performance in respect of both minutes lost and interruptions was ahead of the Specific local factors added to energy If, in any year, regulated energy networks targets set by Ofgem under its Quality of volumes in the south of England during companies revenue is greater over Service Incentive Scheme QSIS, which 2008 09, compared with the previous year, recovery or lower under recovery than is gives financial benefits to distribution such as the opening of Terminal 5 at allowed under the relevant Price Control, network operators that deliver good Heathrow Airport and the return to service the difference is carried forward and the performance for customers.
In addition, subsequent prices the companies may based income covers a number of issues, 2008 09 was the coldest winter in the UK charge are varied.
including the quality of service provided for 13 years.
As a result, SSE believes that to customers and innovation.
underlying consumption of energy fell SSEs objectives in electricity networks during the year, with weather-corrected energy volumes during the second half of are to ensure that they are managed Scottish Hydro Electric Power the financial year being around 5% lower as efficiently as possible, including Distribution and Scottish Hydro than in the previous year.
maintaining tight controls over Electric Transmission operational expenditure and delivering In Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution Operational Cost Efficiency effectively capital expenditure, so that SHEPD in 2008 09: Efficiency is one of SSEs core values the number and duration of power and amongst Ofgems explicit purposes cuts experienced by customers is kept k operating profit increased by 6.8% in setting Price Controls is to keep the to a minimum.
to 160.4m: costs of providing secure and reliable k electricity distributed fell by 0.14TWh networks as low as possible.
An initial Through good performance in areas to 8.51TWh: assessment of operational cost efficiency such as customer service and innovation k the average number of minutes of analysis published by Ofgem in May 2009 SSE seeks to earn additional incentivelost supply per customer was 75, suggests that SSE continues to be the based revenue under the various Ofgem up from 72: most efficient electricity distribution schemes to encourage good performance k the number of supply interruptions per operator in Great Britain.
Over time, its objective 100 customers was 76, up from 69: and is to grow the RAV of the networks k performance-based additional Power Distribution Quality of Service businesses and so secure increased income of 7.6m was earned.
According to Ofgems Distribution Quality revenue from them.
Constructive of Service Report, published in December engagement with the regulator, Ofgem, The increase in operating profit reflects 2008, covering performance in respect of during the various Price Control Reviews changes in the price of units distributed customer interruptions and customer is central to this objective.
minutes lost, SSEs two networks earned Performance in respect of both minutes additional revenue of 33m in the three Southern Electric Power Distribution lost and interruptions was ahead of years to March 2008 the most recent period In Southern Electric Power Distribution Ofgems QSIS targets.
for which comparative data is available, SEPD in 2008 09: making them the two best-performing The increase in the number of supply electricity distribution companies in Great k operating profit increased by 4.6% interruptions in the SHEPD area reflects Britain.
This reflects successful investment to 243.3m: the fact that snow, accompanied by strong in the automation of the networks and k electricity distributed rose by 0.13TWh winds, was a feature of the weather over effective operational responses to electricity to 34.37TWh: an extended period during the winter and supply interruptions.
k the average number of minutes of resulted in more faults to the network.
lost supply per customer was 66, Electricity Network Investment down from 67: Energy Volumes and RAV Growth k the number of supply interruptions The volume of electricity distributed The key responsibility of SSEs electricity per 100 customers was 64, down by SSE during the year was very similar to networks businesses is to maintain safe from 66: and 2007 08, and the volume of gas transported and reliable supplies of electricity and to k performance-based additional income by SGN during the year rose by 4.2TWh.
restore supplies as quickly as possible in of 11.8m was earned.
In both cases, there were increases in Scottish and Southern Energy 45 Annual Report 2009 the event of interruptions.
The Distribution Regulatory Asset Value bn Price Control Review for 2005-10 resulted in substantially increased allowances for capital expenditure to maintain and The Regulated Asset Value RAV improve the networks performance.
is Ofgems valuation of SSEs electricity By earning a return from this investment, and gas network assets, which comprise SSE is able to increase its revenue from one electricity transmission network, two the networks and the efficient delivery electricity distribution networks and a 50% of this enhanced investment programme share in two gas distribution networks.
was one of its priorities for 2008 09.
Investment is geared to renewing SSEs networks, which were largely built in the 1950s and 1960s, and thereby reducing 2009 4.7 the number and duration of power supply 2008 4.5 interruptions.
It is also geared to providing the infrastructure to accommodate 2007 4.2 customers demand for power.
2006 4.1 Capital expenditure in the electricity networks during 2008 09 was 314.6m.
2005 2.5 In the first four years of the current Distribution Price Control which began in April 2005, SSE has invested 810.0m in its distribution networks which excludes metering and a further 148.4m in its maintained at broadly the 2008 09 level.
control technologies to deliver electricity transmission network.
This represents Having published its third consultation more efficiently, are expected to play an a 81.2% increase compared with the first document about the Review for 2010-15 increasingly important part in enabling four years of the previous Price Control, in May 2009, Ofgem will publish its Initial the delivery of long-term targets for 2000-2004.
Proposals on each electricity distribution renewable energy and reduced emissions companys revenue requirements in late of carbon dioxide.
SSE forecasts that the total growth in July 2009. the RAV of its electricity distribution and The next decade is also likely to see transmission businesses, over the five SSE is the only energy company in the UK a significant uptake of electric vehicles, years to March 2010, should total around to be involved in electricity distribution, gas which some reports have suggested 500m, taking it to around 3bn in 2010. distribution and electricity transmission.
could reach around 1.5 million in the It therefore participates in three price UK as early as 2020.
SSE is part of two One feature of the current Price Control control reviews in every five years, which consortia, involving BMW UK Ltd and which has been widely welcomed is the gives it ongoing involvement in, and Ford, which have applied to the Transport ability to place underground electricity extensive experience of, price control Strategy Board TSB for research and distribution lines which were previously issues in the UK.
demonstration funding for prototype overhead, to help restore views in national electric vehicles.
If successful, these parks and areas of outstanding natural Ofgems two-year review of the regulatory projects will help in understanding what beauty.
Many of these lines have been regime for electricity and gas networks needs to be done to develop a viable placed underground using the mole RPI-X@20, which is considering whether market for electric vehicles in the UK.
ploughing technique, which buries cable the current approach will continue to with minimal environmental disruption, deliver customers reliable, well-run These are just some of the technological but at nine times the speed of conventional networks with good service at reasonable developments which may have trenching.
This technique was used, for prices, amid the growing investment implications for electricity networks example, when 5km of overhead line challenges faced by the energy networks in the UK and in which SSE is taking close to the world heritage site at Avebury, in the future, will not report until 2010. an active interest.
which features the largest pre-historic Any changes arising from it will be the stone circle in Britain, was removed and subject of consultation and so work on the Future Transmission Developments placed underground.
Distribution Price Control Review for 2010 Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission 15 is expected to be largely unaffected.
SHETL is responsible for operating, Distribution Price Control Review maintaining and investing in the 2010-15 and Beyond As Ofgem has stated, the current regime transmission network in its area, which Detailed work has begun on the has delivered lower costs, better service serves around 70% of the land mass of Distribution Price Control Review for and record investment.
Ofgems key priorities include SSE understands Ofgems rationale for company for the area, SSE has to ensure encouraging electricity distribution undertaking this review, and is fully there is sufficient network capacity for companies to be more responsive to the engaged in it.
those seeking to generate electricity needs of customers and ensuring that from renewable sources.
companies provide secure and more Looking ahead, intelligent networks, sustainable networks.
SSE therefore featuring distributed sources of electricity The project to replace the electricity expects that annual capital expenditure and leading-edge communication and transmission line connecting Beauly in during the next Price Control will be BUSINESS REVIEW
