Scottish and Southern Energy 30 Annual Report 2009 Generation Medway and Peterhead achieved 76% Generation of their maximum availability to generate electricity, excluding planned outages, compared with 95% availability in the Sustainability, Diversity, Optionality previous year.
This contributed significantly to the reduction in the amount of electricity SSE owns around 10,700MW of electricity generated by SSE at gas-fired power generation capacity in the UK and Ireland, stations in which it has an ownership or contractual interest, which was 28TWh in comprising around: 4,500MW of gasand 2008 09 including 15.3TWh from whollyoilred capacity: 4,000MW of coalred owned stations, compared with 31TWh in the previous year including 18.2TWh capacity with biomass co-ring capability and from wholly-owned stations.
2,200MW of hydro, wind and dedicated biomass The plant at Peterhead, Keadby and capacity, making it the UKs largest generator Fife performed very well during 2008 09, of electricity from renewable sources and achieving 97.5% availability.
The reduction in output is, therefore, attributable to giving it the most diverse mix of fuels.
significant difficulties at Medway, where availability was affected by technical issues leading to unplanned outages and also emergent issues arising during planned inspections, affecting one of 10.7GW 41.2TWh 4.3bn the gas turbines and the steam turbine.
Capacity Output 08 09 Investment 08-13 Resolving these difficulties proved to be a complex and time-consuming task, involving contractors, station employees, insurance providers and SSEs recentlyCapacity Composition established Engineering Centre.
With Gas Oil 42% 4.5GW its asset management capability adding a new dimension to SSEs engineering Coal Biomass 37% 4.0GW rigour, the Centre is playing a key role in Renewable 21% 2.2GW minimising the delay in Medways return to service as is SSEs policy of holding important power plant components.
The return to service is expected shortly.
SSEs experience at Medway was not an isolated one.
Across the electricity generation sector in the UK a number of Key Priorities gas-fired power stations which are now k Complying with safety and environmental requirements into their second decade of operation, k Maintaining availability of power stations to generate including Seabank, in which SSE has a k Investment in refurbishment of existing assets 50% stake, have had unexpected and k Delivering new plant for generating electricity prolonged outages.
While the underlying quality of SSEs power generation assets is not in doubt, its Engineering Centre is reviewing plant design and plant Generation Objectives In achieving these objectives, SSEs target operation within the BETTA British In this context, SSEs key objectives is to reduce by 50% the carbon dioxide Electricity Trading and Transmission in Generation remain relevant and intensity of electricity produced at power Arrangements framework.
They are to: stations in which it has an ownership or has been supported by external contractual interest, over the period from engineering advisers and has indicated k comply fully with all safety standards 2005 06, the first full year after it acquired that the large majority of prolonged and environmental requirements: coal-fired power stations, to 2020. unplanned outages relate to a specific k maintain a diverse portfolio of power technical issue regarding equipment stations, with the flexibility to respond Gas-fired Generation Operations provided by one supplier, rather than any to customer demand and market Good performance in Generation and general underlying problems with plant.
conditions: Supply is dependent, first and foremost, k ensure those power stations are on plant at power stations being available to The outcome of this review will inform available to generate electricity: generate electricity as and when required.
SSEs long-term asset management k operate power stations efficiently SSE owns 4,500MW of gasand oil-fired and investment planning policies, as to achieve the optimum conversion electricity generation capacity, including will the impact of increasing electricity of primary fuel into electricity: and its share of joint ventures.
generation from renewable sources, k develop and pursue a range of options for which means gas-fired and coal-fired adding to its portfolio of power stations, During 2008 09, its principal wholly-owned power stations will have to be increasingly and thus support security of supply.
gas-fired power stations Fife, Keadby, Scottish and Southern Energy 31 Annual Report 2009 flexible and run at lower load factors Generation Key Performance Indicators March 09 March 08 than has historically been the case.
Total electricity generation capacity GW 10.7 10.5 Gas-fired Generation Investment Gas-fired station availability % 76 95 Work on the commissioning of Marchwood Total output from gas-fired power stations TWh 15.3 18.2 Power Ltds new 840MW CCGT plant in Coal-fired station availability % 89 91 Southampton is now well under way.
Total output from coal-fired power stations TWh 7.8 12.0 Following the first firing of the gas turbines Co-firing biomass output qualifying for ROCs GWh 267 368 in March 2009, power from the station Total output from hydro schemes GWh 3,316 3,518 is now being exported to the electricity ROC-qualifying output from hydro schemes GWh 1,656 1,702 network.
Marchwood Power Ltd is a 50:50 Wind farm availability % 96 96 joint venture between SSE and ESB Total UK and RoI output from wind farms GWh 1,718 499 International, in which 159m has so far UK ROC-qualifying output from wind farms GWh 953 389 been invested by SSE.
All of the stations Output from RoI wind farms GWh 765 110 output is contracted to SSE.
It remains ROC-qualifying output from dedicated biomass GWh 148 33 on course to be in commercial operation in time for the winter of 2009 10.
Wholly-owned Includes post-acquisition by SSE output only With a net thermal efficiency in excess of 58%, Marchwood will be one of the most efficient gas-fired power stations in the UK.
In addition, SSE has identified a series only meet up to 10% of their Renewables Moreover, the plant was procured before the of options for other CCGT plant.
These Obligation from this technology.
significant increase in costs experienced in include the potential development of new Nevertheless, co-firing biomass is an the electricity generation sector in 2007 and capacity at Keadby power station and in established means of reducing carbon 2008, making it a particularly well-timed April 2009, it secured an agreement to dioxide emissions and the revised ROC and well-founded investment.
connect a new 850MW power plant to the arrangements provide an adequate electricity transmission network from 2016. framework to sustain it in the future.
Although it would be unwise for SSE as Barking Power Ltd, in which SSE has a a company, or the UK as a country, to run 30.4% stake, has secured consent to Coal and Biomass Generation Investment the risk of becoming over-dependent on develop a new 470MW CCGT plant, which In November 2005, SSE opted in to the a single fuel, CCGT technology is likely would effectively add around 140MW to the LCPD all of the capacity at Fiddlers Ferry to remain the benchmark technology in portfolio of generation assets owned by SSE.
and half of the capacity at Ferrybridge generation for some years to come, making 3,000MW in total.
As a result, the a growing contribution to meeting the UKs Coal and Biomass Generation Operations operation of that capacity must comply electricity requirements.
This is because During 2008 09, SSE generated 7.8TWh of with the Emission Limit Value ELV for of its high thermal efficiency, relatively electricity at its coal-fired power stations sulphur dioxide which came into effect low costs and short construction time.
at Fiddlers Ferry and Ferrybridge, on 1 January 2008.
By making them compared with 12.0TWh in the previous compliant with the ELV, the stations In May 2009, SSE entered into an year.
The stations achieved 89% of their contribution to the security of the UKs agreement to acquire Abernedd Power maximum availability to generate electricity supplies is being extended and Company Limited from BP Alternative electricity, excluding planned outages, SSE will continue to have the countrys Energy.
Abernedd has applied for consent which was a reduction compared with most diverse electricity generation to construct and operate a new CCGT the previous year due to additional work portfolio.
Plant which is not opted-in, power station, with a capacity of over emerging during asset upgrades as a such as the other 1,000MW of capacity at 800MW, on a brownfield site in Baglan result of materials and supplier issues.
Ferrybridge, operates under restrictions Bay in South Wales, where there is Their output during the year was on its ability to generate electricity and already in place electricity transmission, significantly affected by the need to must close in 2015. gas and water infrastructure for the first operate within the constraints imposed phase of the power station.
The total cash by Article 5 1 of the Large Combustion Opted-in plant could initially comply consideration will be determined by the Plant Directive LCPD for a longer period with the Directive by operating under progress of the development.
the requirements of its Article 5 1, which limits operation to 2,000 hours In line with that, and subject to timely The stations co-fire fuels from renewable per year, in advance of completing the hot planning consent being secured, SSE sources biomass in order to displace commissioning of flue gas desulphurisation expects to construct the new power fossil fuels.
During the year, their output FGD equipment.
Having been scheduled station in two phases to maximise plant qualifying for ROCs Renewable Obligation to finish by the end of July 2008, SSEs flexibility.
In the first phase, a unit with Certificates see below was 267GWh, derogations under Article 5 1 eventually capacity of over 400MW will be developed, compared with 368GWh in the previous ended in January 2009 Fiddlers Ferry with a view to becoming operational year included within the above total and February 2009 Ferrybridge.
around 2013: a second unit, with a similar for the stations as a whole.
capacity, will become operational around SSEs original decision to opt the plant in 2016.
The two-unit approach gives SSE From 1 April 2009, electricity output to the LCPD was unavoidably late, given greater flexibility in the timing and nature resulting from co-firing receives 0.5 ROCs it only acquired the power stations in July of the development and a final investment per MWh compared with 1.0 ROC per MWh 2004 and given the uncertainty around decision on the first phase will be taken previously and electricity suppliers can details of public policy which then applied.
by the end of this financial year.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 32 Annual Report 2009 Generation continued This meant the original timetable for FGD Supercritical Boiler technology to replace of RockTron Ltd, in September 2008, installation was particularly challenging.
existing coal-fired capacity and deliver enabling it to secure a share of the income Moreover, retro-fitting FGD equipment a significant reduction in the carbon from the ash separation plant, in addition to to well-established power stations is dioxide emissions per kilowatt-hour the benefits which will result from avoiding necessarily complex, with significant of electricity produced.
the environmental liabilities associated technical challenges which dont arise with ash production and storage.
in respect of new build projects.
SSEs In April 2009, the UK government set out capital investment in FGD equipment has proposals for the basis on which coal-fired EU Emissions Trading Scheme totalled 240m.
power stations will be permitted in the Phase II of the EU Emissions Trading future, in advance of a full consultation Scheme EU ETS began on 1 January The installation of FGD equipment means planned for this summer.
Across its electricity generation the power stations are able to use higherno new coal-fired power stations without portfolio taking account of contractual sulphur coal mined in the UK.
As a result, Carbon Capture and Storage CCS shares, SSE now has an allocation of 16.8 SSE has entered into an agreement demonstration: and full-scale retrofit million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions with UK Coal, under which it will obtain of CCS within five years of the technology allowances per annum.
Its emissions 3.5 million tonnes of deepand surfacebeing independently judged as technically allowances requirement for 2008 09, mined coal from Great Britain, including and commercially proven.
Against this beyond those allocated under EU ETS, Kellingley Colliery in West Yorkshire, to emerging public policy background, a was 2.5 million tonnes.
This compares provide fuel for Ferrybridge power station decision on the main use of the part of the with 6.7 million tonnes in the previous year.
This should Ferrybridge site which has been opted out In addition, Marchwood Power Ltd has an be enough to meet around 15% of the of the LCPD is unlikely to be taken until allocation of five million tonnes reserved to stations requirements during that period.
it from when it is commissioned to the end In addition, SSE has agreed to advance a of Phase II.
During 2008 09, the price of secured loan to UK Coal, on which it will During 2008 09 SSE supported the study allowances ranged from around 8 to receive interest, to be repaid by 2014. undertaken by the Scottish Centre for 28 per tonne: the market itself remains Carbon Storage, which found that industrial relatively new and has yet to mature fully.
The LCPD also requires reduced emissions carbon dioxide produced in the UK during of nitrogen oxides, and SSE has already the next 200 years could be stored securely At the same time, the EU ETS represents invested 31.0m to install SOFA Separated beneath the North Sea.
The study was the an additional and growing cost for Overfire Air and BOFA Boosted Overfire most comprehensive CO source-to-store generators, who are having to continue 2 Air equipment at the stations.
From 2016 analysis ever performed in the UK.
SSE to produce electricity, but with increasing limits on those emissions from power is also sponsoring the OxyCoal 2 project constraints on emissions of carbon dioxide.
stations will be tightened significantly.
This project seeks Moreover, it was confirmed in December As a result, SSE is undertaking a front-end to demonstrate the benefits of oxyfuel 2008, that from 2013, all of the carbon engineering design FEED study, which it technology for carbon capture on coaldioxide emissions allowances for electricity expects to complete during 2009 10, into fired power plants.
On this basis, options for installing Selective Catalytic it is erroneous to characterise allocations Reduction SCR technology at Fiddlers The number and variety of issues that of carbon dioxide emissions allowances Ferry and is also considering the option could affect electricity generation from as a windfall.
In fact, they represent a for Ferrybridge.
The alternative to fitting coal-fired and, indeed, gas-fired plant prudent and practical means of ensuring SCR is to operate the station within limits reinforces SSEs commitment to developing the EU ETS is successfully phased in and required under a derogation from the a number of options to utilise the assets established for the long term, without LCPDs requirements.
SSEs analysis of the at the Ferrybridge site.
posing any risk to electricity production issues around installing SCR will also take and thus to meeting customers energy into consideration the progress of the draft Coal and Biomass Generation requirements through the sudden EU Industrial Emissions Directive which, Sustainability imposition of a major new burden if implemented, could replace the LCPD.
The development by Lafarge Plasterboard on generators.
Ltd of a plasterboard factory at Ferrybridge As the UK Secretary of State for Business has been completed.
The plant is Emissions of Carbon Dioxide said in September 2008, coal is a critically operational and using the gypsum In 2008 09, emissions of carbon dioxide important fuel for the UK, because of its produced on site as a result of FGD from power stations in which SSE has an flexibility, its availability and because it in the production of plasterboard.
ownership or contractual interest totalled reduces reliance on imported gas.
SSE 19.3 million tonnes, compared with is continuing to examine a range of The development by RockTron Widnes Ltd 22.7 million tonnes in the previous year.
options for development at Ferrybridge, of an ash separation plant at Fiddlers Ferry The scale of this fall clearly reflects the unusually low output of electricity from following the expected closure in 2015 of is now complete and moving into operation.
SSEs coal-fired power stations resulting that plant 1,000MW which is not opted It removes and processes all fresh ash from Article 5 1 constraints during the in to the LCPD.
This will leave the station produced by the power station, and much installation of FGD equipment.
with significant assets in terms of land, of that currently stored in lagoons at the a connection to the electricity grid, site, turning it into constituent parts which Assuming it displaced electricity produced cooling water and a railhead.
A number will become marketable mineral products, from coal-fired power stations, the output of options to utilise these assets, featuring with the largest volume being initially of SSEs wind farms and conventional a range of fuels and technologies, are used as cement substitutes.
hydro electric schemes see below saved being assessed.
They include the use around 4.5 million tonnes of carbon of coal-based Integrated Gasification SSE acquired 17.5% of the equity in dioxide in 2008 09.
Combined Cycle technology or Advanced RockTron Widnes Ltd, a subsidiary Scottish and Southern Energy 33 Annual Report 2009 with the 1990 baseline, a target which Electricity Generation Capacity GW followed the Climate Change Act 2008.
In November 2008, the UK government announced proposals to extend the Renewables Obligation RO by at least 2009 10.7 10 years, from 2027 to 2037.
The RO 2008 10.5 requires licensed electricity suppliers to source a specific and annually increasing 2007 10.0 percentage of the electricity they supply 2006 10.0 from renewable sources and provides the necessary financial incentive, through 2005 9.9 a system of trade-able Renewable Obligation Certificates ROCs which supplement the market price of the SSE owns 10.7GW of electricity generation capacity, electricity, to encourage deployment of including its share of joint ventures and associates.
renewable energy in the UK.
Its extension, This comprises around: 4,500MW of gasand oil-fired therefore, represents a positive long-term capacity: 4,000MW of coal-fired and biomass capacity: signal in favour of future investment.
and 2,200MW of renewable energy capacity.
The Energy Act 2008 enabled the introduction of banding of the RO to allow differentiated levels of support for different renewable energy technologies.
From 1 April 2009, electricity from qualifying hydro electric schemes and Emissions of carbon dioxide are believed commitment, they can be declared as onshore wind farms continues to receive to contribute around 70% of the potential leaders.
CDP said 90% of FTSE 100 1.0 ROC per MWh: from offshore wind global warming of anthropogenic emissions companies answered its request for farms it is now 1.5 ROCs per MWh.
SSEs target is to information.
In 2008 SSE maintained reduce the amount of carbon dioxide per its position in the CDLI for the second Later that month, the UK government kilowatt-hour of electricity generated at consecutive year.
announced a banding review with the plant in which it has an ownership or intention of increasing ROCs from 1.5 contractual interest by 50%, between 2006, Renewable Energy Overview per MWh to 2.0 for offshore wind projects the first full year after it acquired coalTackling climate change and securing meeting specified completion criteria if fired power stations, when it was around future supplies remain the two goals they place new orders in 2009-10, and 600g kWh, and 2020.
On this basis, its of energy policy in the UK, Ireland and then 1.75 in 2010-11. carbon intensity in 2008 09 was 491g kWh.
Against this background, the EU Renewable Energy Directive imposes SSE has sought, and received, from the The decisions SSE takes and the legally-binding targets on EU Member UK government clear assurances that any investments it makes are influenced by States, specifying the proportion of all changes to banding, if implemented after this target.
For example, since 2005 06, it energy consumption that must be met the forthcoming review, will not have a has invested over 65m in carbon dioxide by renewable energy sources by 2020. negative economic impact on any existing efficiency improvements, or to facilitate The national target for the UK is 15% renewable energy developments.
It is the burning of carbon neutral fuels such compared with under 2% in 2007 and also engaged in discussions with the as biomass and tall oil, at its coal-fired for the Republic of Ireland it is 16%.
In UK government as to how any change to power stations.
More fundamentally, practice, this is likely to mean that over banding for offshore wind would strengthen SSEs extensive programme of investment one third of the countries electricity the investment climate for that particular in energy from renewable sources, requirements will have to be met from technology.
It is particularly concerned to including the decision in May 2008 to renewable sources.
ensure that previous investment decisions proceed with the construction of the in offshore wind are not unfairly treated Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm, In its response to the UK governments compared with those projects whose demonstrates its financial commitment 2008 consultation on its strategy for construction was delayed.
achieving the target, SSE said: The scale of the challenge and the timetable for In the Republic of Ireland, the Renewable During 2008, SSE participated in the Carbon delivery demand early and sustained Energy Feed In Tariff REFIT scheme is Disclosure Project CDP, which states it is action to address critical areas.
This used to support renewable energy by the worlds largest investor coalition.
It said: includes resolving rapidly the current providing a guaranteed price for output The responses from companies to CDPs barriers, such as planning, grid access and a 15% rebate subject to a cap on annual requests for corporate data provide and infrastructure provision.
In other suppliers purchase of REFIT energy.
investors with vital information regarding words, the UK and other EU countries the current and prospective impact of have to demonstrate sustained SSE has just over 2,200MW of operating climate change on their portfolios.
The commitment and consistent action renewable energy capacity in the UK Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI to translate the very ambitious goals and Ireland, comprising hydro electric includes companies that show a strong for 2020 into reality.
The UKs goals for schemes including pumped storage, organisational commitment to climate 2020 also include a 34% reduction in wind farms and a dedicated biomass change strategy and because of this greenhouse gas emissions compared BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 34 Annual Report 2009 Generation continued 1,650GWh qualified for ROCs, compared Development in Scotland, which argued that facility at Slough, an increase of almost with just over 1,700GWh in the previous there are still over 600MW of financially 200MW during the year.
Assuming average run off of water viable hydro electric schemes to exploit, 900MW qualifies for ROCs excluding into SSEs reservoirs during the year, especially smaller and micro schemes.
Looking ahead, it has set itself the ROC-qualifying output from hydro has consent to develop new run-of-river the target of owning and operating generation is expected to be around hydro electric schemes near Crianlarich 4,000MW of renewable energy capacity 1,700GWh in 2009 10.
It is in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2013. continuing to examine the scope for new Hydro Generation Investment hydro electric developments and in August The achievement of this milestone The construction of SSEs new 100MW hydro 2008 invested 750,000 in Green Highland will mean SSE is making a significant electric station, at Glendoe near Loch Ness, Renewables, in return for a 33.3% stake in contribution to the achievement of the was completed two months earlier than the company, which develops small and 2020 targets in the UK and Ireland, and scheduled and at final capital cost of just medium-sized hydro electric schemes.
it is making comprehensive plans to over 160m.
Glendoe is now SSEs second build on its 2008-13 programme of largest conventional hydro electric station, Hydro electric schemes which use investment in renewable energy in and the first large-scale station to be built impounded water to generate electricity the subsequent years.
in Scotland for over 50 years.
Operationally, have an important part to play in meeting its principal feature is that it is able to start peak demand and also complement the In addition to its clear environmental generating electricity at full capacity in just growing, but variable, amount of output benefits, renewable energy also significantly 30 seconds.
In a year of average rainfall, from wind farms.
Against this background, reduces SSEs exposure to volatile prices its output should be around 180GWh of SSE is submitting to Scottish Ministers an for fossil fuels because the fuel used to electricity.
During the final three months application for consent to develop a 60MW generate electricity is indigenous and free.
of 2008 09, its total output was 76GWh.
pumped storage scheme at its 152MW This is in marked contrast to fossil fuels, Sloy power station, near Loch Lomond.
sources of which are in decline but which Since the Renewables Obligation was This means that in addition to electricity will be in huge demand from economies introduced in April 2002, SSE has invested produced from water collected and held around a world, in many of which the over 300m in refurbishing and developing in the Loch Sloy reservoir, Sloy would population is growing fast.
hydro electric schemes in Scotland, generate electricity using water pumped including Glendoe.
from Loch Lomond to the reservoir.
In addition to its focus on the UK and Ireland, SSE is undertaking in the same The vast majority of SSEs hydro electric In an average year, Sloy produces period a programme of development in stations were built in the 1950s and early around 120GWh of electricity and adding renewable energy in new markets in 1960s and are the subject of a rolling a pumped storage facility would allow continental Europe principally Portugal, programme of investment to prolong it to produce an additional 100GWh of Scandinavia, Italy, Germany and the their working life and improve their electricity a typical year to help meet Netherlands.
SSE currently expects it totalled just over 20m.
that developing a pumped storage facility Hydro Generation Operations at Sloy will require investment of over SSE owns and operates just over 1,450MW In September 2008, the Scottish 30m.
SSE is also exploring whether other of capacity in conventional hydro electric Government published a study carried potential sites could be suitable for the schemes, including the new Glendoe out for the Forum for Renewable Energy development of pumped storage schemes.
hydro electric scheme which became operational in December 2008, and 300MW pumped storage.
Total output from the conventional hydro Hydro Generation Output GWh electric schemes was 3,316GWh during 2008 09, including 76GWh from Glendoe, SSE has over 1,450MW of hydro electric capacity, compared with 3,518GWh during the all in Scotland, including pumped storage.
As at 31 March 2009, the hydro development at Glendoe is SSEs second largest amount of water held in SSEs reservoirs and it contributed 76GWh of output in its first months which could be used to generate electricity of operation.
was 73% of the maximum, the same as in the previous year.
In order to encourage investment in 2009 3,316 maintaining for the long-term smaller schemes, the output of refurbished hydro 2008 3,518 electric stations with capacity of up to 2007 3,767 20MW qualifies for ROCs.
SSE has just over 400MW of capacity in this category 2006 3,054 including the new plant commissioned in 2005 3,544 the last few years at Culleig, Kingairloch and Fasnakyle.
In addition, the output from all new hydro electric schemes, such as Glendoe, also qualifies for ROCs.
Of the total hydro output in 2008 09, just over Scottish and Southern Energy 35 Annual Report 2009 Wind Generation Operations When SSE entered into the agreement to acquire As at 31 March 2009, SSE owns and operates almost 700MW of onshore Airtricity, now its renewable energy development wind farm capacity in the UK and Ireland, division, in January 2008, the combined business of which 300MW is in the Republic of Ireland.
Although lower wind speeds had just over 870MW of onshore wind farm capacity were experienced during 2008 09, total output from SSEs portfolio of wind farms in operation, in construction or with consent for in the UK was 953GWh during the year, development in the UK and Ireland.
This has now all of which was eligible for ROCs, compared with 389GWh in the previous reached almost 1,700MW.
year which includes the output from the Airtricity portfolio of wind farms that was generated between its acquisition by SSE on 15 February 2008 and 31 March 2008 : The most advanced of these projects is some reductions and does not expect them from its wind farms in the Republic of Butendiek, in respect of which SSE has to return to the market peak reached Ireland, the output was 765GWh in the entered into turbine reservation agreement during 2008 for the foreseeable future.
On average, the turbines at with Siemens Wind Power.
SSEs wind farms in the UK and Ireland The principal projects within SSEs five year achieved 96% of their maximum This reflects SSEs aim to develop a programme are the Clyde wind farm and availability to generate electricity.
substantial portfolio of offshore wind farm the Greater Gabbard offshore wind farm.
assets in northern Europe, thus helping Wind Generation Investment Overview a number of EU Member States to Wind Generation Investment Clyde When SSE entered into the agreement achieve their legally-binding 2020 targets Clyde has consent for 152 turbines.
As a to acquire Airtricity, now its renewable for renewable energy.
This is because result of the tender process, SSE may seek energy development division, in January wind energy is an increasingly mature to optimise the energy yield by selecting 2008, the combined business had just over technology, capable of relatively speedy turbines which have a lower installed 870MW of onshore wind farm capacity deployment on a large scale, and must thus capacity than that originally envisaged in operation, in construction or with play a critical part in the achievement of but which represent the most economic consent for development in the UK and the UKs, the Republic of Irelands and the solution.
This has now reached almost EUs renewable energy targets for 2020. of the selected turbines will not affect the 1,700MW, including: expected annual output of over 1,000GWh.
All of this means that SSE now has: Initial site works began in April 2009 and k the Clyde wind farm in southern full construction work will begin later Scotland see below : and k over 3,400MW of renewable energy in the summer.
First commissioning k the Griffin wind farm in Perthshire in capacity onshore wind, offshore wind, is scheduled for 2011 and completion which SSE acquired a majority stake hydro and dedicated biomass in is scheduled for 2012.
The construction in the early part of 2009, the total operation, under construction or with cost is now expected to be around 500m.
capacity of which will depend on the consent in the UK and the Republic This is included within SSEs existing most economic turbine option but will of Ireland excluding Arklow in the investment plans for the period to 2013. be well in excess of 100MW.
Republic of Ireland : and k over 1,400MW of offshore wind farm Wind Generation Investment The progress of the Clyde project in capacity with consent for development Greater Gabbard particular demonstrates that the pipeline in Europe including Arklow.
Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited of opportunities in renewable energy on GGOWL is a 50:50 joint venture between which the acquisition was based are now In addition, the proposal by Viking Energy, SSE and RWE npower renewables, which being realised.
Further evidence of this the joint venture between Viking Energy acquired its 50% stake from SSE in is that SSE expects to complete the Ltd which is 90% owned by Shetland November 2008, to develop in the outer construction of over 150MW of onshore Charitable Trust and SSE to develop Thames Estuary what is the worlds largest wind farm capacity during 2009 10. on Shetlands Central Mainland a wind offshore wind farm under construction.
farm with 540MW of capacity was SSE also has a 50% share of the 500MW submitted to Scottish Ministers in May The development of Greater Gabbard, Greater Gabbard wind farm now under 2009.
This takes to over 1,000MW the excluding the connection to the electricity construction in the outer Thames Estuary amount of onshore wind farm capacity grid, is expected to require total investment see below.
It also has almost 1,400MW of for which SSE has applied for consent of around 1.3bn.
Onshore work on the offshore wind farm capacity with consent to build in Scotland, England, Northern construction of the wind farm is now well for development.
This comprises: Ireland, Italy and Sweden.
under way, as is fabrication of offshore structures and turbines.
Offshore work is k the 280MW Butendiek offshore wind SSE remains on course to make on track to begin in the next few months, farm planned for a site off the coast investments of around 3bn in renewable with the first installations taking place of Germany: energy in the five years between 2008 and before the end of the financial year.
It will k two offshore wind farms proposed in 2013.
A key consideration in investments be commissioned in two phases, with the Dutch sector of the North Sea with will be the prices of the wind turbines the entire construction scheduled to be a total capacity of up to 610MW: and themselves.
While these are the subject completed in 2012.
On completion, the wind k the 500MW Arklow scheme off the of a number of variations, SSE has seen farm will have a total capacity of around east coast of the Republic of Ireland.
BUSINESS REVIEW Scottish and Southern Energy 36 Annual Report 2009 Generation continued 500MW, with 140 turbines mounted on steel Electricity Generation Capacity Onshore Wind MW monopiles, in water depths between around 20 and 30 metres.
It is expected to have a load factor of over 40%, based on sitespecific met mast data collected since 2009 2005, and produce around 1,900GWh of 690 electricity in a typical year.
SSE will take 2008 600 50% of the output.
Its operations and 2007 160 maintenance will be carried out by SSE Generation, under a management services 2006 40 agreement with GGOWL.
2005 20 Although SSE is very positive about the long-term benefits of offshore wind farms, the difficulties associated with SSE owns and operates capacity at onshore developing, operating and maintaining wind farms in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the energy assets in a marine environment Republic of Ireland.
Additional wind farms are also and the challenges associated with the under construction as part of SSEs target to have development of offshore wind farms are not being under-estimated.
4,000MW of operating renewable generation capacity in the UK and Ireland by the end of 2013.
Wind Generation Investment Offshore Wind in the UK SSE expects that Greater Gabbard will prove to be the first of a series of major offshore wind farms which it develops over the next risks involved in offshore wind projects and in Portugal with a total potential capacity decade.
In February 2009, it was granted to maximise the development capability.
This was exclusivity by The Crown Estate to develop followed by the establishment of a offshore wind farms at four locations in In October 2008, SSE was one of five joint venture with an Italian wind farm Scottish territorial waters.
At two of the energy companies to sign an agreement development company, Entropya, which four sites, SSE is in partnership with other on offshore wind with The Carbon Trust.
has a wind farm development pipeline specialist developers.
The proposed wind This marked the start of a major new in excess of 2,000MW gross at various farms could have a total capacity of up to research, development and demonstration stages in the authorisation process.
initiative called the Offshore Wind Accelerator OWA.
The OWA aims to The acquisition of Airtricity has extended Their development is subject to site-specific cut the cost of energy from offshore wind the scope of SSEs interests to continental consultations and environmental impact by at least 10% through a combination of Europe, thereby giving it development and assessments, statutory consents and reducing costs and increasing revenues for operational activity in a new geographical satisfactory completion of the Strategic the developers and operators of projects.
That activity will remain disciplined Environmental Assessment for offshore and clearly focused on renewable energy, wind announced by the Scottish Investment Options in New Markets especially in view of developments in government in October 2008.
In addition to its wind and hydro financial markets.
This means investments investments in the UK and Ireland, SSE in the UK and Ireland are likely to be A month later, SSE joined forces with RWE is identifying options to invest in renewable prioritised in the first instance, followed npower renewables, Statkraft and Statoil energy in new markets: waste-to-energy by investments elsewhere in Europe.
SSE Hydro to bid to win exclusive rights to principally in the UK see below : onshore does not expect to undertake any wind farm develop wind farms under the terms of and offshore wind farms in Europe developments in China in the foreseeable the Zone Development Agreements as principally Portugal, Scandinavia, Italy, future and is planning to dispose of part of The Crown Estates third licence Germany and the Netherlands where Airtricitys development portfolio there.
round for UK offshore wind farms Round there are particular opportunities for 3.
The four companies are co-operating growth in renewables see above : and Marine Energy on a single, joint bid and should they be emerging technologies.
Any investment In February 2009, SSE and Aquamarine successful will work together on the will involve working with partners and Power, in which it has a 50% stake, development, construction and operation will largely be on an equity basis, with entered into a joint venture aimed at of Round 3 wind farms.
non-recourse or project-specific debt developing sites in the UK and the Republic typically expected to account for around of Ireland capable of hosting 1,000MW of In April 2009, SSE joined forces with 75% of the total cost of the investment.
The two Fluor Limited, the UK operating arm companies goal is to deliver marine energy of Fluor Corporation, to create another In April 2008, SSE entered into a 50:50 joint sites suitable for Aquamarine Powers wave consortium, Seagreen Renewables, to venture with Gothia Vind, which is aiming technology, Oyster, a prototype of which bid for the exclusive rights to develop to develop around 200MW of onshore wind should be deployed at the European Marine other wind farms under Round 3 farm capacity in Sweden over the next three Energy Centre in Orkney in the summer Airtricity and Fluor jointly developed the years.
Two months later, SSE entered into of 2009.
In April 2009, the Oyster device Greater Gabbard Offshore Wind Farm.
two joint venture partnerships, with Riviera produced and exported electricity at Partnerships with other developers such and with Hispano Lusa SL, to further its the New and Renewable Energy Centre as this are intended by SSE to minimise plans for the development of wind farms NaREC near Newcastle, for the first time.
Scottish and Southern Energy 37 Annual Report 2009 whereby Centrica will invest in EDFs Biomass and Multi-fuel identified.
These projects are being nuclear business in the UK, including SSEs plant at Slough has a current progressed through feasibility stages, the current British Energy nuclear power generating capacity of 80MW and remains with a view to applications for consent station fleet.
This agreement would bind the UKs largest dedicated biomass energy being made in 2009 10. together companies which currently facility.
During 2008 09, it produced supply electricity and gas to over 40% 148GWh of electricity qualifying for ROCs, Emerging Technologies SSE Ventures of the homes, offices and businesses in compared with 33GWh during the three In February 2007, SSE set up SSE Ventures Great Britain.
As a result, its implications months in which it was under SSEs SSEV to develop and grow its portfolio of for the energy supply market and for the ownership in the previous year.
Output investments in small and medium-sized wholesale electricity market will require was affected by technical issues businesses offering renewable, sustainable the most detailed scrutiny by the relevant concerning the operation of one and energy efficiency-enhancing products competition authorities.
SSE believes that of the steam turbines at the plant.
In addition to the financial it is likely to require detailed conditions to support offered, SSEV works in close be placed on the parties directly involved The acquisition of the plant at Slough in partnership with investee companies to safeguard competition.
January 2008 gave SSE a platform from to help their products or services make which to invest in biomass and waste-to progress towards full commercial viability.
Against this background, and in line Participation in emerging technology and Beyond with its approach to developing a number of developments helps SSE to anticipate, During 2009 10 and beyond, SSEs key options for the site, SSE announced in March be at the forefront of, and adapt to, objectives in Generation will be to ensure 2009 plans for a multi-fuel combined heat the changes in energy production and that its diverse portfolio of power stations is and power CHP facility at Ferrybridge.
consumption that are likely to occur well-maintained and available to generate The proposed multi-fuel CHP facility will over the next decade.
During 2008 09, electricity, with the maximum flexibility use a range of fuel sources, which could through equity and loans, SSEs total and efficiency, in response to customer include biomass, waste-derived fuels and commitments to investing reached 88m and it now holds direct or indirect stakes demand and market conditions, while wood products, to generate around 90MW in a total of 24 companies.
complying fully with all safety standards of electricity and to provide heat to the and environmental regulations.
It will be compliant with Nuclear Power the Waste Incineration Directive.
SSE was part of a consortium, with GDF SSE will also be pursuing timely SUEZ and Iberdrola which placed bids in the investment in asset refurbishment and The potential for such technology should auction by the Nuclear Decommissioning replacement projects, and working to not be under-estimated.
In December 2008, Authority and EDF of three potential nuclear deliver on time and on budget its projects the Institution of Mechanical Engineers new-build sites in the UK, that was to develop new capacity for generating said that the UK could generate one fifth concluded in April 2009.
Key milestones include the of its electricity from the 300 million elected to maintain its financial discipline start of construction work at the Clyde and tonnes of waste per annum otherwise and did not secure any of the sites.
Griffin wind farms and the start of offshore destined for landfill much of which construction work at Greater Gabbard.
can be readily prepared to become Nevertheless, SSE continues to believe refuse-derived fuel RDF.
that it should work with other parties In the five years between 2008 and 2013, to help secure the development of SSE currently expects that its investment In line with that, SSE expects to expand its new nuclear power stations, through across its entire generation portfolio will interests in this area, including establishing appropriate investment or contractual be over 4bn, including investment in long-term relationships with a number of support, in order to help maintain secure existing assets.
This investment will be companies to help deliver some sources supplies of energy for customers.
designed to abate the environmental of fuel for its generation and its first fuel impact of existing assets and extend contract, with Shanks, was agreed in As a result, it is examining a number of their working lives and to deliver new 2008 09 for the Yorkshire area.
Proposals opportunities for other potential sites with assets, principally in renewable energy for multi-fuel plant in other parts of the its consortium partners.
In particular, the but also as in the case of Marchwood country are also being prepared.
consortium will be focusing on the sites and Abernedd thermal generation.
All of nominated as part of the UK Governments this will support security of energy supply.
Forth Energy Strategic Siting Assessment, which was In June 2008, SSE and Forth Ports plc published for public consultation in April In addition, SSE is seeking to build up entered into a strategic venture to develop 2009, which have to be sold by their a major offshore wind farm capability renewable energy projects around Forth current owners.
in northern Europe, and so successful Ports sites in Scotland and England.
The participation in The Crown Estates new venture, called Forth Energy, will invest Competition Issues Round 3 is a major priority.
in the generation, distribution and supply In April 2008, Ofgem launched an of renewable energy for export to the investigation into SSE and Scottish Power As a result, SSE will have a growing, electricity network for commercial sale Limited, under section 18 of the Competition and balanced, portfolio of electricity and for consumption at Forth Ports sites.
Act 1998 and Article 82 of the EC Treaty.
generation assets, with a diminishing SSE co-operated fully with Ofgem, which environmental impact in which its The venture envisages projects across a concluded in January 2009 that there had exposure to fossil fuel price volatility number of renewable energy technologies, been no breach of the Competition Act.
At the same including wind, tidal and biomass, and time, SSE will actively seek to maintain related networks and infrastructure.
In May 2009 EDF Group and Centrica plc optionality and diversity in the future Possible projects with a total installed announced their definitive agreement development of its generation portfolio.
capacity in excess of 150MW have been BUSINESS REVIEW
