Scottish and Southern Energy 62 Annual Report 2009 Directors Report funding of investment opportunities and Principal Activities service contract for Gregor Alexander and the acquisition of value-enhancing assets.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a the letters of appointment for Thomas holding company.
Its subsidiaries are Andersen and Susan Rice are set out At the 2009 AGM the Directors will again organised into the main businesses of: in the Remuneration Report on page 72. seek shareholder authority to enable them to issue up to a maximum of 5% k electricity generation, transmission, The interests of the Directors in the of the issued share capital.
The authority, distribution and supply: ordinary shares of the company at if approved, will remain in force until k gas storage, distribution and supply: 31 March 2009 are set out in the the 2010 AGM.
There is no present k electrical and utility contracting: Remuneration Report on page 74. intention of exercising this authority k home services, supplying a wide range in the year ending 31 March 2010.
The of electrical and gas appliances and Directors Insurance and Indemnities Directors note the current institutional complementary products: and The Directors have the benefit of the shareholder guidelines not to seek to k telecommunications.
indemnity provision contained in the allot more than 7.5% of the issued share companys Articles.
The Directors of the capital, cumulatively, in any three-year Business Review company have been granted a qualifying rolling period, without prior consultation.
The company is required to set out in third party indemnity provision which was this Directors Report a fair review of the in force throughout the financial year Substantial Shareholdings business of the Group and a description of and remains in force.
The company also At 20 May 2009, the following interest the principal risks and uncertainties facing purchased and maintained throughout in the issued ordinary share capital the Group known as a Business Review.
the financial year directors and officers of the company has been disclosed The Business Review is required to set out liability insurance in respect of itself and in accordance with the requirements a balanced and comprehensive analysis for its Directors and Officers.
of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure of the development and performance of Results and Dividends and Transparency Rules: the Groups business during the financial The Group profit attributable to year ended 31 March 2009 and of the shareholders for the financial year Entity Number of Shares Percentage position of the Group at the end of that amounted to 112.3m.
The information that fulfils Legal & General recommend a final dividend of 46.2p per these requirements, and deemed to be Group Plc 43,832,434 5% ordinary share which, subject to approval incorporated in this Directors Report, At date of disclosure by relevant entity.
at the AGM, will be payable on 25 is contained within pages 1 to 61 of September 2009 to shareholders on the this Annual Report.
register at close of business on 21 August Since the date of disclosure to the 2009.
With the interim dividend of 19.8p company, the interest of the shareholder Directors per ordinary share paid on 27 March 2009, listed above may have increased or The Directors as at the date of this this makes a total dividend of 66.0p per decreased.
No requirement to notify the report are: ordinary share.
company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding Executive Share Capital moved up or down through a whole Ian Marchant, Chief Executive Officer Details of the companys authorised and number percentage level.
Gregor Alexander issued share capital at 31 March 2009, Colin Hood which includes options granted under the Research and Development R&D Alistair Phillips-Davies Groups employee share option schemes, R&D is fundamental to the companys are set out in notes 25 and 28 to the ability to change and adapt to the Non-Executive Financial Statements.
challenges of the future, and in 2008 09 Lord Smith of Kelvin, Chairman R&D activities were increased further, Thomas Andersen Annual General Meeting building on the work of previous years.
Nick Baldwin The 20th AGM of the company will be held These have included the creation of a Richard Gillingwater on 23 July 2009 at 12 noon in the Perth corporate R&D function to work with Ren Mdori Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 5HZ.
Susan Rice The Notice of Annual General Meeting 2009, which contains full explanations of The company has been actively involved Sir Kevin Smith retired on 24 July 2008. the business to be conducted at the AGM, through the Energy Research Partnership is set out in the shareholder circular.
in supporting alignment between the Thomas Andersen was appointed as various funding bodies such as the Carbon a non-Executive Director on 1 January Disapplication of Pre-Emption Rights Trust, Technology Strategy Board, and 2009.
In accordance with the Articles of Share Placing Energy Technologies Institute.
It launched Association Articles, he will retire from At each AGM the Directors seek authority a strategic partnership with Strathclyde office at the Annual General Meeting AGM from shareholders to allot shares for cash University and is exploring key relationships and will offer himself for re-appointment.
otherwise than pro rata to all shareholders with other universities.
up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share Susan Rice and Gregor Alexander retire capital in any one year.
On 7 January 2009 During 2008 09 the company invested by rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, the company issued 42 million new shares 4.4m in R&D activities which included and in accordance with the Articles, will 4.8% of the issued share capital at that studies on NOx abatement from its coaloffer themselves for re-appointment.
The share fired plant, carbon capture, and bio-fuels.
placing was priced at 1140p per share, R&D activities in renewable generation Biographical details of all Directors are which raised 479m, to facilitate the have included a consortium looking to set out on pages 64 and 65.
