Scottish and Southern Energy 46 Annual Report 2009 Networks continued Ministers consent to upgrade the the Highlands and Denny in the Central required to meet the UKs legally-binding Beauly-Denny transmission network.
Belt of Scotland follows on from SSEs renewable energy targets for 2020. licence responsibilities.
The Beauly-Denny SSE will seek an acceptable outcome from Public Inquiry, the largest in Scotland The report said: The proposed Beaulythe Distribution Price Control Review for since devolution, was completed in Denny rebuild is an important step in 2010-15, which means being able to earn February 2008.
Scottish Ministers received developing a transmission system in the a reasonable return on the RAV through: a the report of the Inquiry in February 2009, north of Scotland of sufficient capacity fair allowed return currently 4.8% post-tax and the Scottish Government said they to accommodate renewable development real which reflects the current economic will take a final decision on the proposal proposals.
With this upgrade in place, and financial environment: and scope for later this year.
further reinforcement of the north of out-performance from the various Scotland transmission system can be incentive mechanisms.
It is likely that SSEs share of the achieved by the strengthening of the replacement line 200km of the total other elements of the system.
It is clear that encouraging electricity distance of 220km will require investment companies to be more responsive to in excess of 300m.
In other words, the consenting and the needs of customers will be amongst completion of the Beauly-Denny upgrade Ofgems key priorities for 2010-15, and The Transmission Investment for would allow other elements of the north SSE has in place a programme of Renewable Generation mechanism of Scotland transmission ring to be continuous improvement initiatives in provides funding for transmission re-conductored and re-insulated while anticipation of this.
SSE is also looking companies which are required to avoiding any need for new overhead line to the longer-term issues, such as the undertake work in connection with routes.
This would increase the capability possible impact on its distribution renewable energy that was not forecast for renewable energy capacity in the north networks of the deployment of a large at the time the relevant price controls of Scotland to over 6GW, well over double number of electric vehicles and the were set.
In May 2008, Ofgem announced that currently connected.
it would allow an increase in SHETLs income to take account of costs incurred SSEs proposal for an electricity in respect of the Beauly-Denny transmission connection between the Western Isles and the north west of replacement.
In doing so, it noted that: Gas Networks Scotland is consistent with this featuring, We are convinced that SHETL diverting for the mainland section, an underground its own internal resources to the Public cable between the west coast of Sutherland Inquiry above and beyond what could and the Beauly substation near Inverness.
reasonably be expected has resulted in SSE submitted to Scottish Ministers an material cost savings that would otherwise Scotia Gas Networks SGN Financial application for consent to construct the have been funded by consumers.
SGN, in which SSE holds 50% of the connection in October 2008. equity, owns and operates the Scotland In December 2008, the Scottish and the Southern gas distribution Electricity Distribution and Transmission government included future electricity networks.
The networks comprise around Priorities in 2009 10 and Beyond network reinforcement to support 74,000km of gas mains, delivering gas to During 2009 10 and beyond, SSEs first renewable energy development as one around 5.7 million industrial, commercial objective in electricity distribution and of 12 National Developments in the and domestic customers.
SSE receives transmission will be to maintain safe second National Planning Framework.
50% of the distributable earnings from and reliable supplies of power and to Designation as National Developments SGN, in line with its equity holding, and restore supplies as quickly as possible in the Framework establishes the need also provides it with corporate and in the event of interruptions, and so for these projects in the national interest.
performance in terms of customer The Renewable Energy Directive includes minutes lost and customer interruptions a binding commitment on EU Member SSEs share of the adjusted operating will continue to be critical.
States to ensure their electricity networks profit of SGN was 180.5m in 2008 09, accommodate the further development compared with 161.5m in the previous Also critical will be the delivery of of electricity production from renewable year.
The increase is primarily due to two SSEs investment plans in its electricity energy sources.
things: the impact of the price changes networks, which it expects to total agreed for the year to 31 March 2009 as around 350m in 2009 10, and securing Against this background, in March 2009, part of the five-year Price Control to the Electricity Networks Strategy Group, co-chaired by Ofgem and the UK Department of Energy and Climate During 2009 10 and beyond, SSEs first objective Change, and on which SSE is represented, published Our Electricity Transmission in electricity distribution and transmission will be Network: A Vision for 2020.
It set out a series of proposed reinforcements to to maintain safe and reliable supplies of power and the Great Britain transmission network, to restore supplies as quickly as possible in the event with a total value of 4.7bn, of which over 1bn would be required in the SHETL of interruptions, and so performance in terms of area, in two stages.
The reinforcements would accommodate, amongst other customer minutes lost and customer interruptions things, the large amount of onshore and offshore wind farms that will be will continue to be critical.
