Chairman and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the Chairman and Corporate governance Chief Executive, there are three Non-Executive Directors one of whom, Peter Read, is the Senior Independent Director SID and two Executive Directors.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in his biography.
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman do not interfere with the performance of The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders his duties as Chairman.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive and other stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading Directors are independent in character and judgement and by reference the Group, ensuring that the appropriate resources, processes to section A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and that controls are in place to and controls are in place to execute that strategy.
Developing and ensure that no single Director has unfettered powers of decision.
maintaining high standards of corporate governance is integral The management of operational matters within the Group is to the delivery of value.
This report explains SSLs corporate delegated to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive governance arrangements and how the Group has applied the Directors and certain other senior executives.
Biographical information Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
on the members of the Executive Committee is shown on pages 34 to 36.
The Board The Executive Committee meets monthly.
There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This Board evaluation schedule includes: During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors.
Approval development of the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: Previous evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the Chairman, whilst the SID conducted the evaluation of the Chairman.
Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and The Board concluded that this process remained appropriate.
any material changes to them: All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, which each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation to responses about the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: were presented to the Board.
The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions: process, which has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board that is challenging but supportive, encourages focus on the main Approval of contracts which are material strategically, or by reason of size: and issues facing the Group and further enhances the Boards procedures and working practices.
Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
Dialogue with shareholders To ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme has a schedule of matters for each meeting.
These matters include: involving existing and potential investors within the UK and overseas.
Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: The Chief Executive, Finance Director and certain senior executives meet with institutional investors on a regular basis.
The Chairman and SID make Health and safety: themselves available to meet with institutional investors.
The SID attends the preliminary and interim results presentations with investors and Presentations from the heads of the business units: analysts.
An investor relations report is presented and considered at Investor relations: and each Board meeting.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, to communicate with investors and encourage their participation.
The Board also receives regular updates on relevant legal, environmental The Directors are available to speak informally with shareholders after and business development matters.
The schedule below sets out the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by Board Committees The Board has established three committees.
Each committee Directors at those meetings.
operates in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are Scheduled Audit Nomination Remuneration reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website, Board Committee Committee Committee www.
The committee chairmen report at the meetings meetings meetings meetings next meeting on the proceedings of the committee which they chair.
Audit Committee Policy on auditors independence I Adamson 8 8 Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is paramount R Adam 8 8 5 5 4 4 5 5 and controls are in place to ensure their continued independence.
G Corbett 8 8 4 4 5 5 However, there are occasions when services can be more efficiently P Johnson 4 4 2 2 3 3 undertaken by the external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their M Moran 8 8 independence.
The Audit Committee has put in place a detailed policy P Read 8 8 5 5 4 4 5 5 on the provision of services by the external auditors, which sets out the G Watts 8 8 4 4 services that the external auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf of A Catalano 3 3 3 3 2 2 the Group and those which are prohibited to them.
Under this policy, the S Murray 2 2 2 2 2 2 external auditors cannot be engaged to provide any of the following services: The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period Design or implementation of IT systems: in which the individual was a Board member.
When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance Valuation: of the meeting.
One of the Board meetings is devoted solely to strategy.
Internal audit: and During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the Litigation support, legal or corporate finance advice, tax advice Chairman, Gerald Corbett.
Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily if on a wholly or partly contingent fee basis, recruitment, executive responsible for the effective running of the Groups business.
There is compensation advice, accounting and actuarial valuation.
a clear, written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the Secondment of senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
