The Directors were authorised at the 2008 AGM to purchase the Key contractual arrangements Companys own shares, within certain limits.
Although no such purchases There are no persons with whom the Group or Company has contractual were made during the financial year, the Directors will seek approval to or other arrangements, who are deemed to be essential to the business renew this authority at the 2009 AGM.
In addition, a resolution will be put to shareholders at the 2009 Disclosure of information to auditors AGM to increase the authorised share capital of the Company from The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors 25 million to 40 million, by the creation of 150 million ordinary shares report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant of 10 pence each to rank pari passu with the existing ordinary shares of audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Company.
each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a As at 18 May 2009, the Company had been notified of the Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and following material interests in accordance with the Disclosure and to establish that the Companys auditor are aware of that information.
Transparency Rules: Auditors Number of Percentage of KPMG Audit plc has expressed its willingness to remain in office as auditor shares voting issued share at the 2009 AGM.
After proper consideration, the Audit Committee is Shareholder rights capital satisfied that KPMG Audit plc continues to be objective and independent of the Group.
In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, # Blackrock Inc 28,722,169 14.97 a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Liontrust Investment Services Ltd 10,519,998 5.51 Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
FMR Corp 9,591,060 5.03 By order of the Board Amvescap PLC 9,511,193 4.99 Ameriprise Financial Inc 10,541,483 4.99 Maria Buxton-Smith FMR LLC 10,517,330 4.98 Company Secretary Standard Life Investments Limited 10,476,385 4.96 18 May 2009 F&C Asset Management PLC 9,437,628 4.95 TIAA-CREF Investment Management 10,253,489 4.86 J P Morgan Chase & Co 9,200,001 4.83 L & G Group PLC 8,332,820 3.94 # On 28 January 2009, the Company made a non pre-emptive placing of 19.19 million ordinary shares.
Blackrock Inc obtained shares under the placing and the number of shares held by them is now 31,012,991 representing 14.69 per cent of the issued share capital.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The bank facilities agreement includes a change of control clause, whereby negotiations would be entered into with a view to agreeing ongoing terms for the facility if a change of ownership occurs.
The companys Articles of Association Articles give power to the Board to appoint Directors, but require Directors to submit themselves for election at the first AGM following their appointment and to retire by rotation every three years.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provision of the relevant statutes and the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles contain specific provision and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles.
The authority to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights is renewed by the shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Remuneration report Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee Composition of the Committee: Peter Read Dear Shareholder Committee Chairman and Senior Independent Director I submit the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended Gerald Corbett 31 March 2009.
The Remuneration Committees the Committee aim Group Chairman is to maintain a remuneration framework which incentivises the Richard Adam senior team to outperform against challenging targets, which are Non-Executive Director set to drive sustainable business performance.
The link between the achievement of the Groups goals and the reward of our Peter Johnson Non-Executive Director talented senior executive team, has been a key factor in the recent outstanding performance of the Group.
Their performance Gerald Corbett was considered independent by reference to the this year has been particularly impressive in light of the current Combined Code on Corporate Governance upon his appointment economic climate.
The implications of the controversy relating to executive remuneration issues over the last year have been carefully All members served throughout the year, except Peter Johnson who joined the Committee upon his appointment as a Non-Executive considered by the Committee in its annual review of the Groups remuneration policy.
Accordingly this year, it has used the various Director on 1 October 2008.
Susan Murray and Anna Catalano were both members of the Committee until they resigned as Non-Executive guidelines published by investor bodies to challenge and risk assess its own policy.
Following this close scrutiny, the Committee Directors on 24 July 2008 and 11 November 2008 respectively.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
remains confident that the remuneration policy stands up well in the current circumstances.
It sets a robust and well structured Advisers to the Committee approach to remuneration for both its Executives and the The Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Group Human Resources wider management team that drives the right, complementary Director, who are generally invited to attend Committee meetings, behaviours for both the short and long-term term within an provide advice and or services to the Committee.
No Executive appropriate risk framework.
participates in any discussion concerning his or her own remuneration.
Peter Read The Committee receives advice from independent consultants.
During the year, the Committee received advice from the following Chairman, Remuneration Committee consultants: Consultant Advice provided to the Committee Hewitt New Bridge Street On the Groups mediumand long-term incentive arrangements Ernst & Young LLP On the operation of the Groups share schemes and the calculation of the Groups total shareholder return  LLP On the Groups Performance Share Plan Ernst & Young LLP also provides advice to the Company on taxation matters relating to expatriate employees.
 LLP provided some taxation advice in relation to the closure of the Groups manufacturing operations in Spain and some general advice in relation to Group VAT matters.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision of advice to the Committee does not result in a conflict of interests.
Activities of the Committee The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, has a schedule of the principal items to be discussed at each meeting.
The purpose of the schedule is to ensure that all material matters are considered at the appropriate time.
Such matters include: An annual review of remuneration policy and framework: Consideration of Executives remuneration packages: and Determination of performance measures for the Groups incentive schemes.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the principal matters discussed at the Committee.
Copies of Committee minutes are available to all Directors subject to there not being a conflict of interest.
The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed at the Companys website, www.
42 43 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009
