Non-Executive Directors Board of Directors 5 Peter Read Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of the Non-Executive Chairman Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is a Non- 1 Executive Director of Vernalis plc.
Previously, Peter was Gerald Corbett a senior executive of Hoechst and President of ABPI, Chairman since August 2005, Gerald is also Chairman a Non-Executive Director of Celltech Group plc, a member of Britvic plc, Moneysupermaket.
com Group plc, the of the Board of the South East Development Agency and Royal National Institute of the Deaf and a Non-Executive an independent Director of Innogenetics NV.
Director of Greencore Group plc and Numis Corporation Plc.
Previous executive positions include Chief Executive 6 of Railtrack plc and Group Finance Director of both Richard Adam Grand Metropolitan plc and Redland plc, whilst past nonNon-Executive Director executive directorships include Chairman of Woolworths Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Group plc and Non-Executive Director of MEPC plc and of the Audit Committee in November 2003, Richard is Burmah Castrol plc.
currently Group Finance Director of Carillion plc.
Prior to this he was Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Executive Directors Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
2 7 Garry Watts Peter Johnson Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004 after joining Appointed to the Board in October 2008, Peter is currently as Group Finance Director in February 2001.
He was Chairman of D S Smith plc and a member of the Supervisory previously an Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and Board of Wienerberger AG.
He was previously the Chief Finance Director of Medeva plc.
Garry is a Non-Executive Executive of George Wimpey Plc and prior to that Chief Director of Stagecoach Group plc and was previously a Executive of The Rugby Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency and Protherics plc.
3 Company Secretary Mark Moran 8 Group Finance Director Maria Buxton-Smith Appointed as Group Finance Director in June 2004, Appointed Company Secretary in January 2008 after Mark is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the joining the Company as Assistant Secretary in 2002.
Audit Committee of Brixton plc.
He was previously Maria has previously held company secretarial positions Finance Director of Porvair plc.
with Whitbread PLC and Heron Corporation PLC.
4 Ian Adamson Managing Director Europe and Americas Appointed as an Executive Director in April 2004.
In addition to his role as Managing Director for Europe and Americas, Ian also has responsibility for Group Marketing.
He joined Seton Healthcare in 1991 as Director of Marketing and has subsequently held a number of senior sales, marketing and general management positions within the Group.
He previously held sales and marketing positions at Johnson and Johnson and W. L. Gore & Associates.
Jon assumed responsibility for Asia Pacific in 2004 and has spent a Executive committee total of 11 years living and working in Asia.
4 Shaun Davis Group Manufacturing and Logistics Director 1 Shaun, an accountant, joined London International Group in 1987.
Peter Whitehurst After holding a number of senior accounting roles, he moved into general Group IT and Projects Director management in 1996 and ran the Marigold Industrial business until its Peter joined SSL in 1999 after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant.
Shaun has managed a number of strategic projects, Following a period as Head of Internal Audit, Peter led a series including the disposal of the Medical Products business and took up of strategic change projects within the Group.
In 2004 Peter was his current position in March 2007. appointed Group IT and Projects Director.
Peter is responsible for 5 the global implementation of SAP.
Antony Mannion 2 Group Legal and Compliance Director Leigh Taylor Antony joined the Group in September 2004 as Company Secretary and Head of Innovation Group Compliance Director.
He qualified as a Solicitor with Freshfields in Appointed as Head of Innovation in September 2007.
Leigh joined the 1986 and has worked as an Investment Banker with Citicorp Investment London International Group in 1995 as Regional Manager Export before Bank and Standard Chartered Bank.
In addition to his Compliance role, taking up a number of senior marketing and general management positions Antony has responsibility for Group acquisitions.
He previously held clinical research, medical sales and 6 international marketing positions with Glaxo SmithKline and Bayer Diagnostics.
Sheena Mackay 3 Group HR Director Jon Gray Sheena was appointed Group HR Director in April 2004.
She joined the Managing Director Asia Pacific company in 1991 as UK HR Manager.
She then held a progressive series of Jon joined London International Group in 1991 from Tate & Lyle plc international, generalist HR roles as well as leading the HR stream of various where he was a project engineer.
He has held a number of international projects including business restructuring, disposals and acquisitions.
commercial roles for SSL including Head of International Contracts, Previously, she worked in HR for GEC plc both at its corporate HQ and Managing Director for South East Asia and Group Marketing Director.
1 4 2 5 3 6 Garry Watts, Ian Adamson and Mark Moran are also members of the Executive Committee.
Their details appear on pages 34 and 35.
36 37 Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2009
