Directors biographies Details of corporate governance, including the operation of the Board of Directors, are given in section 6 of this Annual Report.
A brief biography of each director is given below.
Robert Speirs Brian Souter Martin Grif ths Dr Janet Morgan CBE 4.
4.1 1 Robert Speirs Martin Grif ths Position: Non-Executive Chairman Position: Finance Director Appointment to the Board: 1995 Appointment to the Board: 2000 Age: 72 Age: 43 Committee Membership: Nomination Chair Committee Membership: Pension Oversight, Health, Safety & Environmental Committee External appointments: Securysis Ltd Non-Executive Director.
External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Co-Chairman, Robert Previous experience: Member of the Board since 1995 and Walters plc Non-Executive Director and Glasgow Income Trust plc Non-Executive Chairman since 2002.
Previously a Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director.
of the Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Chairman of the Miller Group Limited.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Martin Griffi ths is a member and former Chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
Brian Souter Position: Chief Executive Dr Janet Morgan CBE Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Position: Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Age: 55 Appointment to the Board: 2001 Committee Membership: None Age: 63 External appointments: None Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Chair Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Brian Souter and Audit and Nomination co-founded Stagecoach, Scottish plc of the year 2008.
Brian Souter External appointments: Nuclear Liabilities Fund Chairman, was named Businessman of the year at the Insider Elite Awards 2004.
Nuclear Liabilities Financing Assurance Board Chairman, Albion Enterprise VCT plc Non-Executive Director and Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Investment Trust Non-Executive Director.
Previous experience: Former member of the Central Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet Offi ce.
page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 66817 NewBoard 09. indd 2 19 6 09 18:32:07 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 21 Iain Duf n OBE Ann Gloag OBE Sir George Mathewson Ewan Brown CBE Garry Watts MBE Iain Duf n OBE Ewan Brown CBE Position: Non-Executive Director Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2001 Appointment to the Board: 1988 Age: 62 Age: 67 Committee Membership: Remuneration Chair, Audit and Health, Committee Membership: Pension Oversight Chair and Nomination Safety and Environmental External appointments: Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd Non-Executive External appointments: Origo Services Non-Executive Chairman Director, Creative Scotland 2009 Ltd Chairman, Senior Governor of the and Scottish Leather Group Non-Executive Director.
University of St Andrews and Deputy Chair of the Edinburgh International Festival.
Previous experience: Executive positions with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, Lucas Varity plc, Previous experience: Executive Director of Noble Grossart until 2003, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
a former chairman of TIE and Non-Executive Director of the Wood Group, a former Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland and Non-Executive Director of Lloyds Banking Group plc Ann Gloag OBE Position: Non-Executive Director Garry Watts MBE Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Position: Non-Executive Director Age: 66 Appointment to the Board: 2007 Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environmental Age: 52 External appointments: Mercy Ships International Board Member.
Committee Membership: Audit Chair and Remuneration Previous experience: Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach and External appointments: SSL International plc Chief Executive.
served as executive director until 2000.
Previous experience: A Chartered Accountant, Garry Watts is a former executive director of Celltech plc, fi finance director of Sir George Mathewson Medeva plc and partner with KPMG.
Position: Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2006 Age: 69 Committee Membership: Remuneration and Nomination External appointments: Old Oak Holdings Limited Chairman, Wood MacKenzie Ltd Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers to the Scottish Parliament Chairman, and The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh Board of Trustees Chairman.
Previous experience: Former Chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Former Chief Executive of the Scottish Development Agency now Scottish Enterprise, Former Director of Scottish Investment Trust plc, Former member of the Board of Directors of the Institute of International Finance, Former member of the Financial Reporting Council and Past President of the International Monetary Conference.
