Directors report the factors suggested by the Combined Code for determining independence, 5.1 Principal activity Ewan Brown oers himself for annual re-election.
Other non-executive The Groups principal activity is the provision of public transport services in directors, including the Chairman, who are not treated as independent are the UK and North America.
A fuller description of the Groups business is also subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, Robert Speirs, Chairman, and provided in section 3.3 of this Annual Report.
Ann Gloag, who is a non-executive director but is not independent, also oer themselves for annual re-election.
5.2 Business review The Board reviews the development plans for the Board at least annually as The Group is required to produce a business review complying with the part of its performance evaluation.
The assessment involves a consideration requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has complied with of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors.
The Board these minimum requirements as part of the Operating and Financial Review, also considers whether the Directors have sucient time to properly which also provides significant information over and above the statutory discharge their duties, which includes a consideration of any other minimum.
The Operating and Financial Review, which forms part of the appointments that each director has.
The re-elections of Robert Speirs, Ewan Directors report, is contained in section 3 of this Annual Report.
Brown, Ann Gloag, Martin Griths and Sir George Mathewson will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting and are consistent with the 5.3 Group results and dividends results of the Boards assessment.
The Board believes that the performance of The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on each of these directors continues to be eective and that they continue to page 41. demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
The Board therefore considers it is appropriate that each of these directors be re-elected at the An interim dividend of 1.8p per ordinary share was paid on 4 March 2009.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share making a total dividend of 6.0p per ordinary share for the year.
Subject to approval by The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority LR 9.8.
6 R 1 require shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 30 September 2009 to those listed companies such as Stagecoach to disclose in their Annual Reports the shareholders on the register at 28 August 2009. interests of each director.
The Directors interests set out in Tables A and B have been determined on the same basis as in previous years and are 5.4 Directors and their interests intended to comply with the requirements of LR 9.8.
6 R 1, which is not the The names, responsibilities and biographical details of the Directors appear basis used to determine voting rights for the purposes of notifying major on pages 20 and 21.
Their participation in full Board meetings and meetings interests in shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of committees is given in the Corporate governance report on page 28. of the Financial Services Authority.
Accordingly, the interests of Brian Souter and Ann Gloag shown below do not represent their voting rights determined Martin Griths and Sir George Mathewson retire by rotation at the 2009 in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules which as at 30 April Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association and 2009, including vested but unexercised options, were 99,066,464 2008: being eligible oer themselves for re-election.
governance report on page 26, Ewan Brown is considered to be an independent non-executive director by the Board.
However, in recognition of Number of ordinary shares TABLE A 30 April and 30 April and 24 June 2009 25 June 2008 Brian Souter 108,221,606 104,721,606 Martin Griffiths 19,350 19,350 Ewan Brown See below See below Iain Duffin 22,359 20,359 Ann Gloag 78,105,900 75,875,900 Sir George Mathewson 35,800 Nil Janet Morgan 1,323 1,323 Robert Speirs 19,414 9,414 Garry Watts 20,000 20,000 Ewan Brown has an indirect interest in the share capital of the Company.
He and his connected parties own approximately 22% 2008: 22% of the ordinary shares of Noble Grossart Holdings Limited, which in turn through its subsidiary, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, held 4,084,999 shares in the Company at 30 April and 24 June 2009 2008: 4,084,999.
Number of ordinary shares under option and or TABLE B Executive Participation Plan units 30 April and 30 April and 24 June 2009 25 June 2008 Brian Souter 657,881 548,351 Martin Griffiths 245,633 645,997 Ewan Brown Nil Nil Iain Duffin Nil Nil Ann Gloag Nil Nil Sir George Mathewson Nil Nil Janet Morgan Nil Nil Robert Speirs Nil Nil Garry Watts Nil Nil page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 23 In addition to their individual interests in shares, Brian Souter and Martin 5.8 Statement of Directors responsibilities in Griths are potential beneciaries of the Stagecoach Group Employee benefit respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Trust 2003, which held 4,153,570 2008: 4,600,165 ordinary shares of remuneration report and the financial 56 57th pence each as at 30 April 2009.
Martin Griths is also a potential statements beneciary of the Stagecoach Group Qualifying Employee Share Trust QUEST, which held 333,372 2008: 384,279 ordinary shares of 56 57th The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors pence each as at 30 April 2009.
Full details of options and other share based remuneration report and the consolidated and the parent company financial awards held by the Directors at 30 April 2009 are contained in the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
remuneration report on pages 35 to 37.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the No director had a material interest in the loan stock or share capital of any consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial subsidiary company.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report 5.5 Indemnification of directors and officers in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company of legal action that might be brought against its directors.
In accordance with law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are the Company Articles of Association, and as permitted by law, the Company satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the has indemnified each of its directors and other officers of the Group against Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their offices.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 5.6 Substantial shareholdings select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By 23 June 2009 being the latest practical date prior to the date of this make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: report, the Company had been notified of the following major interests in state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, IFRSs issued by the voting rights in the Company other than certain Directors shareholdings IASB, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject details of which are set out in section 5.4 of this report : to any material departures disclosed and explained in the consolidated and Standard Life Investments Ltd 5.1% parent company financial statements respectively: and JPMorgan Chase & Co. 4.7% prepare the consolidated and parent company financial statements on the Legal & General Group plc 4.0% going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Blackrock Inc 4.9% will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 5.7 Employment policies Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from encouraging its employees to be responsive to the needs of its customers and legislation in other jurisdictions.
to maintain and, where possible, improve operational performance.
The Group is also committed to providing equality of opportunity to employees.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in section 4 of This applies to appropriate training, career development and promotion the annual report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: opportunities for all employees regardless of physical disability, gender, the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in religion, belief, race or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full consideration to accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of applications for employment from disabled persons where a disabled person the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and can adequately full the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees the Directors report contained in sections 3 to 5 of the annual report become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable to provide includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Group is committed to employee participation and uses a variety of 5.9 Conflicts of interest methods to inform, consult and involve its employees.
Employees participate The Companies Act 2006 requires that from 1 October 2008, a director has a directly in the success of the business through the Groups bonus and other statutory duty to avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct remuneration schemes and are encouraged to invest through participation in or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the relevant share option schemes.
There have been several invitations to UK employees companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public to subscribe to the Groups Sharesave SAYE scheme, all of which have met companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, if with encouraging levels of response.
the relevant companys Articles of Association contain a provision to this The Group periodically arranges meetings that bring together representatives effect.
At the Groups 2008 AGM, a new article was adopted which gave the from management and trade unions.
Discussions take place regularly with the Directors authority to approve conflict situations including other directorships trade unions representing the vast majority of the Groups employees on a held by the Directors.
The Group also produces a range of internal newsletters There are safeguards in place that apply when the Directors decide whether to and information circulars that keep employees abreast of developments.
authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only the Directors who have Employees are encouraged to discuss matters of interest to them and no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant subjects aecting day-to-day operations of the Group with management.
decision and secondly, in taking any decision, the Directors must act in a way that they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the The Group is committed to developing a culture of openness across all its Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions businesses and ensuring the highest standards of probity and accountability.
when giving authorisation if they think that this is appropriate.
The Board actively encourages employees with serious concerns about the interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Group has a policy in From the period since 1 October 2008, being the date that this new provision place called speaking up which is designed to ensure processes exist came into force, until the date of this report, the Board considers that the whereby employees can raise serious concerns constructively without fear of Directors powers of authorisation of conflicts have operated effectively and victimisation, subsequent discrimination or disadvantage.
those procedures set out above have been properly followed.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 24 Directors report None of the ordinary shares in issue provide the holders with special control 5.10 Suppliers payment policy and practice rights.
It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms of payment with As at 30 April 2009, there were 8,527,488 2008: 12,783,677 B shares in suppliers for each transaction or series of transactions, and to abide by issue with a nominal value of 63 pence each.
those terms based on the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
The policies followed by each of the major UK operating subsidiaries are The holders of the B shares are entitled to payment of a non-cumulative disclosed in the financial statements of those companies.
The Company preferential dividend paid twice yearly in arrears on 31 May and 30 November normally settles trade creditors on 30 to 45 day terms.
For the Group as a calculated at a pre-specified annual rate expressed as 70% of LIBOR for six whole, the trade creditors outstanding at the year end represented 39 days month deposits in pounds sterling on the nominal amount per B Share.
The purchases 2008: 33 days, with the increase principally due to the timing of holders of B Shares are entitled to payment of their dividend in priority to any the rail industry period-ends.
payment of dividend or other distribution to ordinary shareholders and before any profits are carried to reserves.
Furthermore, on a return of capital on a 5.11 Land and buildings winding up, the holders of any unredeemed B Shares are entitled to the amount paid up or treated as paid up on the nominal value of each B Share In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between the plus the relevant proportion of any dividend payable on those B Shares before open market value of the Groups interest in land and buildings and its net any payment to ordinary shareholders.
The holders of the unredeemed B book value.
Shares shall not be entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
The holders of the unredeemed B Shares are not entitled to 5.12 Financial risk management receive notice of any general meeting of the Company or to attend, speak or Information regarding the Groups financial risk management objectives and vote at any such general meeting.
The holders of any unredeemed B Shares policies and exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks can be will have the opportunity to redeem their B Shares twice yearly on 31 May found in note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company may now at any time mandatorily redeem the B Shares at their nominal value.
5.13 Charitable and political contributions Section 5.6 of this Directors report gives details of any shareholders other Group companies made charitable donations of 0.7m 2008: 0.7m during than the Directors that hold major interests in the voting rights in the the year.
It is the Groups policy not to make political contributions and, accordingly, Details of each directors interests in the share capital of the Company are there were no contributions for political purposes during the year 2008: given in section 5.4 of this Directors report.
Two directors of the Company, Nil.
Brian Souter and Ann Gloag, who are siblings were interested in 25.9% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 30 April 2009 2008: 25.1%.
The other 5.14 Authority for company to purchase its directors of the Company held less than 0.1% of the ordinary shares in issue own shares as at 30 April 2009 2008: less than 0.1%.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Company was granted authority by In addition to the Directors individual interests in shares, two employee its shareholders to repurchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
During the benefit trusts held a further 0.6% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 30 April year, no ordinary shares were repurchased.
Under the existing authority, the 2009 2008: 0.7%.
The shares held by the trusts are for the benefit of Company may repurchase up to 71,903,513 ordinary shares.
This authority employees of the Group, and the voting rights are exercised by the trustees.
will expire at the conclusion of the 2009 Annual General Meeting unless The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that revoked, varied or renewed prior to this date.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
A resolution will be placed at the next Annual General Meeting that the Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of Company be authorised to repurchase its ordinary shares at the Directors holders of ordinary shares.
The Directors have the power to appoint a director discretion up to a maximum number equal to approximately 9% of the but any person so appointed by the Directors shall hold office only until the ordinary shares that are outstanding at the time of the Annual General next annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for appointment by Meeting.
If passed, the resolution will lapse at the conclusion of the 2010 ordinary resolution at that meeting.
If the resolution is approved, the existing authority that was granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting will lapse.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of holders of ordinary shares.
5.15 Shareholder and control structure The powers of the Directors to issue or repurchase ordinary shares are set by At 30 April 2009, the Companys issued share capital comprised two classes an ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of ordinary shares.
of shares, referred to as ordinary shares and B shares.
Section 5.14 of this Directors report sets out the current authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 30 April 2009, there were 719,478,434 2008: 718,145,299 ordinary shares in issue with a nominal value of 56 57th pence each.
The ordinary There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
The most significant of these are: On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote The Group operates the South Western Trains and East Midlands Trains rail and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to franchises.
The Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, operates the West vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of a general Coast Trains franchise.
The franchise agreements in respect of these three meeting will specify any deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of franchises each contain provisions that would enable the Department for the meeting concerned.
Transport to terminate the franchises on a change of control of the franchise.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to be paid the profits of the Company available for distribution and determined to be distributed pro-rata Each of the three rail franchises referred to above lease trains.
The leases to the number of ordinary shares held.
generally contain termination rights for the benefit of the lessor on a change of control of the Group.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares other than: The Groups bank facilities contain provisions that would require certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and repayment of outstanding borrowings and other drawings under the regulations for example, insider trading laws : and facilities following a change of control of the Group.
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby The impact of a change of control of the Group on remuneration certain employees of the Group require the approval of the Company to arrangements is explained in section 10.19. deal in the Companys securities.
page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 66817 StCchV13 p1to39:66817 StCchV13 p1to39 29 6 09 17:29 Page 25 5.16 Disapplication of pre-emption rights The Company seeks approval at least annually from its shareholders for the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
The approval sought is generally to disapply pre-emption rights in respect of equity securities up to approximately 5% of those in issue.
The cumulative shares issued on a non pre-emptive basis as a percentage of the ordinary shares in issue at 30 April 2009 were: Year ended 30 April 2009 0.2% Three years ended 30 April 2009 2.7% Five years ended 30 April 2009 7.9% During the year ended 30 April 2008, the ordinary shares of the Company were consolidated with 9 shares issued for every 14 shares previously held and during the year ended 30 April 2005, the ordinary shares of the Company were consolidated with 19 shares issued for every 24 previously held.
No adjustments have been made to the shares issued as shown in the table above to take account of the consolidations.
5.17 Post balance sheet events On 31 May 2009, holders of 2,658,827 redeemable B preference shares elected to have these shares redeemed leaving 5,868,661 redeemable B preference shares in issue.
5.18 Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and the facilities available, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
5.19 Auditors In the case of each of the persons who were directors of the Company at the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will also be proposed that the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of the auditors.
By order of the Board Ross Paterson Company Secretary 24 June 2009 Stagecoach Group plc | page 25
