Directors Report Year ended 29 November 2009 Huxley Associates, Progressive and used throughout the Group to monitor Real Staffing Group, all of which progress, with the principal indicators operate under a well established listed in the table overleaf.
The first office, these relate to a strategic Group level, as Computer Futures, opened in analysis is provided within the Chief London in 1986, whilst international Executive Officers and Chief Financial expansion started in 1998 with the Officers reviews.
For the financial launch of an office in Brussels.
Each KPIs, comparision figures are shown brand operates independently, but for the current and prior year.
No share common services such as figures are applicable for non-financial finance, information services, human KPIs.
The specific KPIs used will depend The Group has grown organically and The Directors present their Annual on the split of business, i. e. whether has a diverse client base of over 7,000 Report on the activities of the Group, it is contract or permanent, as well clients.
Offices are currently located in together with the financial statements as whether it is in a new sector or Europe, USA, Asia-Pacific and Middle and auditors report for the yeargeography and annual bonuses are East, with further offices planned to ended 29 November 2009. linked to a mixture of these, as well as be opened in 2010. other KPIs, depending on the specific Group business review, role of the individual concerned.
From our well-established position in principal activities and risks the ICT sector, the Group has broadened facing the business its operations by building fast-growing The Chairmans Statement, Chief businesses serving the accountancy & Executive Officers and Chief Financial finance, banking, engineering, oil & gas, Officers Reviews, taken together pharmaceuticals, human resources, with this Directors Report, provide energy and legal sectors.
The Group information relating to the Groups began trading on the London Stock activities, its business and strategy Exchange in November 2005 and in and principal risks and uncertainties 2007 launched a US Level One ADR faced by the business, including facility.
analysis using financial and other KPIs where necessary.
These, together SThree has a selective approach to with the Directors Remuneration clients and focuses on high margin Report, Corporate Governance and opportunities, predominantly within Corporate Social Responsibility the small to medium-sized enterprises Reports, provide an overview of the SMEs market and, from its inception, Group, including environmental the Group has avoided the high and employee matters and give an volume, low margin business model indication of future developments in in favour of a focus on high quality the Groups business.
a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position The Groups main subsidiary and prospects, in accordance with the undertakings are disclosed in the Business Review requirements of the notes to the financial statements.
Key Performance Indicators SThree is a specialist permanent and KPIs contract staffing business, currently Both financial and non-financial Key comprised of four operating brands, Performance indicators KPIs are being FS Group Computer Futures, SThree plc 11 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 KPIs financial 2009 2008 Definition and method of calculation Revenue 519.4m 631.5m Total fees earned by the Group, before any cost deductions.
Gross Profit 171.2m 218.9m Revenue less cost of sales.
Also known as Net Fee Income.
Profit Before Tax 18.0m 56.0m Gross profit, less administration expenses and finance income costs before adjusted exceptional items.
Total Shareholder 105% 28% TSR is defined as share price growth plus dividends attributable to shareholders Return TSR attributable to shareholders over a specific period.
This measure is also used for the Groups LTIP, but over a three year period.
Earnings Per Share 9.5p 29.9p EPS is defined as profit before exceptional items for the year attributable to the EPS adjusted Groups equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
This measure is also to be used for the Groups LTIP, but over a three year period.
Group gross margin 33.0% 34.7% Gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Contract margin 22.1% 21.5% Contract gross profit as a percentage of contract revenue.
Gross Profit per Day Rate 84.69 78.30 Contract gross profit per average number of working days.
Permanent fees 11.9k 10.4k Average fees of permanent placements that started during the period.
Geographical diversification 55.0% 45.0% Split of gross profit by location of client.
international mix Sectoral diversification 28.0% 23.0% Split of gross profit by candidate skill set.
non ICT Contract Perm mix 58% 42% 52% 48% Proportion of gross profit attributable to contract and permanent placements.
Conversion ratio 10.5% 25.9% The conversion ratio is the operating profit stated as a percentage of net fees and measures how effective the Group is at controlling the costs and expenses associated with its normal operations and its level of investment for the future.
Cash Conversion 326% 142% Cash conversion is calculated as the cash flows from operating activities for the year after deducting net normal capex stated as a percentage of operating profit before exceptional items and is a measure of the Groups ability to convert profit into cash.
Debtor days 37 43 Represents the length of time it takes the Company to receive payments from its debtors.
It is calculated by comparing how many days billings it takes to cover the debtor balance.
KPIs non financial Risk Management As detailed within the Corporate Governance Report, the Group has continued to roll out its ERM framework throughout the business and has consequently further developed and enhanced its risk evaluation and ERM reporting mechanism.
During 2010, key Executive job descriptions are to be re-drafted to include reference to risk responsibility, with annual bonus linked to up to 20% of their bonus opportunity and relating directly to progress towards the Companys strategic objectives, in support of managing any related business risk.
Headcount Churn This is the measure of employee retention.
Lower churn and higher headcount retention generally means increased productivity.
It is also an indicator of morale.
Environmental In late 2008, a strategic decision was made to conduct a Company-wide initiative to establish our carbon footprint and reduce energy consumption whilst taking steps to increase recycling by 50%.
Specific initiatives are detailed within the CSR report.
SThree plc 12 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 businesses more aggressively in obligations, which could impact Principal risks and other geographies and sectors, results.
uncertainties including the less-developed markets The principal risks facing the business of Asia Pacific and Rest of the World, Availability of candidates the include the following: whilst also improving the efficiency availability of highly skilled quality and operations of our businesses candidates is essential to operating Macro-economic environment The throughout the organisation.
in niche high margin areas.
Changes performance of the Group has a in the other risk areas can affect relationship and dependence on the In Continental Europe and many candidate supply.
underlying growth of the economies parts of the world, the markets for of the countries in which it operates the provision of recruitment services Contractual risk Clients increasingly in so far as it impacts client and are somewhat less developed and require more complex levels of candidate confidence.
2009 saw a the market place is also fragmented, compliance in their contractual crisis in confidence, which impacted although the markets in Continental arrangements.
The Group takes our business volumes significantly.
Europe and Asia are developing these responsibilities seriously This is mitigated in part by more quickly.
Where these markets and contracts are therefore closely maintaining: are still in a development phase, controlled via the Groups centralised pricing pressure is less of a risk and Legal and Business Administration a balance of temporary and our strategy is to rapidly grow our functions and subject to regular audit permanent recruitment, businesses in these territories.
by the Internal Audit function in order increasingly in the public sector: to reduce the risk of non-compliance.
Competitors in our markets range from The Group also has clear guidance a broad exposure across large multi-national organisations on the approval of contractual geographies and sectors: to small, boutique, privately owned terms and monitors the application businesses.
In all of our markets a flexible cost base that enables thereof, especially any exceptions we are continually subject to both us to react swiftly to changes in to our standard liability position existing and new competitors entering market conditions by increasing or and insurance protection, which into the markets in which we operate, reducing costs as appropriate: and require the approval of the Legal in terms of geographic region and Department Company Secretary.
a strong balance sheet with specialist activity.
The competitive The placing of temporary workers manageable debt levels.
threat is from both small start-up generally represents greater risk for operations and large multi-nationals A key part of the Groups strategy the organisation than permanent as the costs of entry into specialist is to continue to grow the size of its placements.
Wherever possible, recruitment can be relatively low, international businesses to reduce the contracts include clauses which place although these costs have risen Groups reliance on any one specific the responsibility for supervision and with increased levels of compliance economy, geography or sector.
control of each contractor directly required from local regulators and with the client, excluding any clients.
Competitive environment The Group consequential loss and limiting the continues to face competitor risk Groups aggregate liability under the in the markets where the provision Commercial relationships customer contract.
of permanent and temporary credit risk The Group benefits recruitment is most competitive from close commercial relationships People The Group is heavily and fragmented, being generally with key clients, particularly in the reliant on the ability to recruit, the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.
SMEs market, in both the private train and develop people to meet There is strong competition for and, increasingly, the public sectors, its growth strategy.
At the same clients and candidates, although we although it is not dependent on time, the Groups business model generally resist pricing and margin any single key client.
However, demands flexibility to consolidate pressures across our major specialist like most companies, the Group is or expand, depending on the activities.
The Groups strategy is to always subject to the risk that some economic environment.
In response continue to grow its international customers might be unable to fulfil to this, the Group is focused on SThree plc 13 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 engaging with and developing other loss via its Business Continuity its key managers in each sector Plan arrangements.
geography and is committed to Regulatory environment and ensuring it has competitive pay and legislative changes The specialist benefits structures, clearly linked recruitment industry is governed to performance, combined with by increasing levels of compliance, a succession planning process.
which vary from country to country Through training and development, and market to market.
The Group it seeks to provide individuals with is committed to meeting all of its the leadership, sales, key customer regulatory responsibilities and management and general business continues to strengthen its internal skills that support the Groups controls and processes with respect expansion needs, whilst providing a to legal and contractual obligations.
Post balance sheet events As employment laws are changed and Brand and Country managers are There have been no significant events harmonised in certain geographies, also focused on allocating resources since the balance sheet date.
this creates new risks and in respect of the best Group opportunities.
The contract market is opportunities available.
Results and dividends more heavily regulated and changes Information in respect of the Groups Information Technology The Group in legislation such as changes in profits, dividends and other key is reliant on delivering its service managed service company legislation financial information is contained to clients through a number of or to contract worker rights may within the Chairmans Statement, the technology systems.
These are housed impact the Group.
The Group Chief Executive Officers and Chief in various locations and the Group ensures that its policies, processes Financial Officers Reviews.
has capacity to cope with a data or and systems reflect best practice, system loss as a result of a significant wherever possible in order to meet the Directors and their interests event through the establishment legal requirements of the markets in The current Directors of the Company of disaster recovery sites that are which it operates.
are: physically based in separate locations Foreign exchange The Group has to the ongoing operations.
The Sir Anthony Cleaver, retiring significant operations outside the Group is also reliant upon a number Chairman United Kingdom and is therefore of important suppliers that provide exposed to movements in exchange critical information technology Russell Clements, Chief Executive rates.
As profits from the Euro-based infrastructure.
It continually monitors Officer markets increase in proportion to the performance and robustness of Gary Elden, Chief Development the Groups total profits, the foreign these suppliers to ensure businessOfficer exchange risk also increases.
The Board critical processes are safeguarded as has undertaken a review of its currency far as is practicably possible.
Whilst the Alex Smith, Chief Financial Officer hedging strategy to ensure that it is Group replaced its financial systems in Sunil Wickremeratne, Chief appropriate and currently the Group 2006, these are periodically reviewed Operating Officer does not actively manage its exposure to ensure they are fully utilised and to foreign exchange risk by the use of remain effective.
In order to reduce Paul Bowtell, Independent Nonfinancial instruments.
However, the any risks associated in upgrading key Executive Director impact of foreign exchange will become operational and financial systems, a more significant issue for the Group Alicja Lesniak, Independent Nonproject management teams are as the business mix moves further Executive Director appointed, including specialist IT, towards international.
And the Group operational and external resource, Tony Ward, Senior Independent will continue to monitor its policies in utilising robust management tools Non-Executive Director this area.
which monitor progress across the life of any project.
The business also Nadhim Zahawi, Independent Noncontinues to review and enhance its Executive Director ability to cope with a significant data or SThree plc 14 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 Biographies are shown earlier in this 21 days purchases 2008: 24 days.
Minority Stakes model as a key factor Annual Report, with details of Board The Group has business relationships in its success and it is planned to Committee membership being set out with a number of contractors but is create more of these this year, on in the Corporate Governance Report.
not reliant on any single one.
similar terms to those previously All Directors served throughout the created, subject to shareholder There are no significant agreements financial year.
approval at the AGM in April 2010. to which the Company is party that Brian McBride and David Tilston take effect, alter or terminate upon Entrepreneurial employees within retired as Directors at the Annual a change of control of the Company the Group often create ideas for General Meeting on 24 April 2009, following a takeover offer, with the new business opportunities, which whilst, in accordance with the exception of the RBS Invoice Finance the Group may elect to pursue and Companys Articles of Association, agreement regarding the Groups develop.
Historically the Group has Sunil Wickremeratne, Tony Ward invoice discounting facility, dated engaged with such key employees in and Alicja Lesniak will retire at the 8 October 2009. setting up new brands for the purpose 2010 AGM and submit themselves of pursuing these new ideas, which The Company does not have for re-election.
In accordance with have typically evolved organically agreements with any Director the terms of his re-appointment, Sir out of one of the existing SThree or employee that would provide Anthony Cleaver will also retire at the businesses, for example, JP Gray was compensation for loss of office Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Full established as a result of an idea or employment resulting from a information is contained in the Notice presented to the Directors by certain takeover, except that provisions of Meeting.
senior managers of FS Group, who of the Groups share plans and were then given the opportunity to Other than employment contracts and Minority Interest arrangements, may manage and develop that new brand.
Minority Interest loans to Gary Elden, cause options, awards or minority Typically, those managers of the new none of the Directors of the Company shareholdings to vest on a takeover.
SThree brand will be able to invest, at had a material interest in any contract the Companys discretion, in the new Share capital with the Company or its subsidiary venture and share in its success as undertakings.
The key terms of the The authorised and issued share well as the risk of failure.
Directors service contracts, the capital of the Company, together Directors interests in the shares and As in prior years, only the Groups with details of the movements in the options of the Company and Minority key entrepreneurial employees may Companys issued share capital during Interest loans to Gary Elden in respect be invited to invest in the creation the year, are shown in the notes to the of Minority Interests approved prior of any new minority shareholding financial statements.
to him becoming an SThree plc business.
In order to receive equity director are disclosed in the Directors ownership such employees must Remuneration Report.
invest in any stake at fair value and be actively engaged in that business for a Supplier payment policy, minimum term of between three and Essential Contractors and five years.
Should the employee wish Change of Control to dispose of their stake the Company retains pre-emption rights.
It is the Groups policy to comply with terms of payment negotiated with The minimum term for each new suppliers.
Where payment terms are minority stake will be set at the outset not negotiated, the Group endeavours and will normally be five years, but to adhere to the suppliers standard will never be less than three years, terms.
SThree plc acts as a holding in order to allow the Group flexibility company for the Group and does not to adapt to the individual needs of its trade and consequently does not have Minority Interests MI Model brands and businesses and differing an average creditors payment period.
Since flotation, the Group has rates of growth.
Trade creditors of the Group at 29 regarded its Minority Interests or November 2009 were equivalent to SThree plc 15 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 Substantial shareholdings As at the date of this Report, the Group had been notified, in accordance with the Companies Act, of the following significant interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company: Name of holder Number of shares Percentage shareholding AXA 5,153,356 4.23% Simon Peter Arber 3,392,047 2.79% William Frederick Bottriell 9,327,764 7.66% Russell Clements 4,738,729 3.89% Fidelity 6,028,475 4.95% HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21% JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited 7,021,061 5.07% Legal & General Group plc 4,841,179 3.97% Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12% Standard Life Investments Limited 10,747,159 8.83% Sunil Wickremeratne 10,671,553 8.76% In line with this, approval is also being Also note that, for all prior shareholder MIs.
sought to amend the specified period authorities granted, the five year Authority to make purchases of provisions of the previous offers period available to the Company own shares approved by shareholders at AGM to make such offers to employees in 2006 and 2007.
These provisions is to be renewed from the date of The Company is, until the date of the stated that the specified period each Annual General Meeting, or any forthcoming Annual General Meeting, would always be five years.
generally and unconditionally for offers of unallocated shares, in authorised to buy back a proportion The proposed resolution, together respect of new MI contracts only, it of its own ordinary shares.
During with the standard terms upon which is proposed to amend this so that the the year no purchases were made, the Minority Stakes are normally specified period will still normally although the Directors will seek to based, are outlined within the Notice be five years but will never be less renew the authority for up to 10% of of Meeting.
than three years, provided there are the Companys issued share capital at exceptional circumstances, in order the Annual General Meeting.
Whilst the Group refers to its Minority to match the more recent minority Interests model throughout these Directors indemnities, structures.
financial statements, in recent years insurance and conflicts of the Group has evolved its method of Although there are a number of interest administering these arrangements different businesses in which Section 236 of the Companies Act and has developed a tracker share key employees will be invited to 2006 allows companies the power model.
There are technical accounting invest, each invitation will be on to extend indemnities to Directors differences between historic entity generally similar terms to that used against liability to third parties based MIs and newer tracker share previously and it is normally therefore excluding criminal and regulatory based MIs which are accounted for as appropriate to put only one resolution penalties and also to pay Directors share based payments under IFRS2 to shareholders each year.
legal costs in advance, provided that and not as traditional equity based these are reimbursed to the Company SThree plc 16 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 should the individual Director be Responsibility Report section.
the Groups policy to support disabled convicted or, in an action brought employees in all aspects of their Health and safety The Group is by the Company, where judgement training, development and promotion committed to providing for the health, is given against the Director.
The where it benefits the employee and safety and welfare of all its employees.
Company currently has a Directors the Group.
Every effort is made to ensure that and Officers insurance policy in place the requirements of the Health and Information on employee share plans which provides this cover.
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 and all and share ownership is contained in The Board also confirms that there other relevant regulations and codes the Directors Remuneration Report.
are appropriate procedures in place of practice are complied with.
to ensure that its powers to authorise The Community The Group is any Directors conflicts of interest Employees The Group has committed to providing support to operated effectively during the year.
continued its policy of informing all the community and society through a employees of matters of concern number of charitable activities.
During to them as employees, both in their the period the Group made charitable immediate work situation and in the donations of 51,000 2008: 81,000. wider context of the Groups well The Group made no donations for being.
It encourages participation political purposes either in the UK or and involvement in matters which overseas during the year.
affect their interests as employees.
Annual General Meeting Communication with employees is effected through the Groups The Annual General Meeting of the management briefings structure, Company will be held on 23 April 2010, Board Committees, formal and at Home House, 20 Portman Square, informal meetings and through the London W1H 6LW.
A separate formal Groups information systems.
Informal Notice of Meeting details all business communication is facilitated by emails to be transacted.
Corporate Governance to all Group companies.
Auditors Please refer to the separate Corporate The Group is also committed to Governance Report.
As required by Section 418 2 of the achieving equal opportunities and to Companies Act 2006, each Director complying with anti-discrimination Financial instruments in office, at the date of this Report, legislation.
In addition, employees hereby confirms that: Information in respect of financial are encouraged to train and develop instruments is set out in the notes to their careers.
It is established Group so far as the Director is aware, the financial statements.
policy to offer employees and job there is no relevant audit applicants the opportunity to benefit Corporate and Social information of which the from fair employment, without regard Responsibility Companys auditors are unaware: to their sex, sexual orientation, marital and The Board recognises its status, race, religion or belief, age or environmental, health and safety he she has taken all steps that disability.
and employment responsibilities he she ought to have taken as and devotes appropriate resources a Director in order to make him The Group gives full and fair towards monitoring compliance with herself aware of any relevant audit consideration to the employment of and improving existing standards.
information and to establish that disabled persons for suitable jobs.
The Chief Executive Officer has the Companys Auditors are aware In the event of members of staff responsibility for these areas at Board of such information.
becoming disabled every effort is level, ensuring that the Groups policies made to ensure that their employment  LLP have are upheld and providing the necessary within the Group continues either in indicated their willingness to continue resources.
Further information is the job or in a suitable alternative.
Accordingly, a resolution contained in the Corporate Social SThree plc 17 Directors Report continued Year ended 29 November 2009 will be put to the forthcoming Annual an d then apply them consistently: position and profit of the Group: and General Meeting proposing their make judgements and accounting the Directors Report, taken re-appointment as auditors for the estimates that are reasonable and together with the Chairmans ensuing year.
prudent: Statement, the Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial state whether applicable IFRSs as Officers Reviews, contained in adopted by the European Union and the Annual Report includes a fair IFRSs issued by IASB have been review of the development and followed: and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together prepare the financial statements on with a description of the principal the going concern basis unless it is risks and uncertainties that it inappropriate to presume that the faces.
Company will continue in business.
By order of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Statement of Directors disclose with reasonable accuracy at responsibilities any time the financial position of the Steve Hornbuckle The Directors are responsible for Company and the Group and enable Company Secretary preparing the Annual Report, the them to ensure that the financial 29 January 2010 Directors Remuneration Report statements and the Directors and the financial statements in Remuneration Report comply with the Registered Office: accordance with applicable law and Companies Act 2006 and, as regards 41-44 Great Windmill Street, London, regulations.
the Group financial statements, Article W1D 7NB 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Company law requires the Directors also responsible for safeguarding the to prepare financial statements for assets of the Company and the Group each financial year.
The Directors and hence for taking reasonable steps have elected to prepare the Group and for the prevention and detection of parent company financial statements fraud and other irregularities.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs The Directors are responsible for the as adopted by the European Union.
In maintenance and integrity of the preparing these financial statements, Companys website.
Legislation in the Directors have also elected to the United Kingdom governing the comply with IFRSs, issued by the preparation and dissemination of International Accounting Standards financial statements may differ from Board IASB.
Under company law legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Directors must not approve the Each of the Directors, whose names financial statements unless they are and functions are listed above confirm satisfied that they give a true and fair that, to the best of their knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or the Group financial statements, loss of the Group for that period.
In which have been prepared in preparing these financial statements, accordance with IFRSs as adopted the Directors are required to: by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial select suitable accounting policies SThree plc 18
