Board of Directors and Secretary Report & Accounts 2009 The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis.
Most importantly they share a passion for the business and the outstanding opportunities ahead.
Sir Anthony Cleaver Chairman retires at the Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2010 Sir Anthony Cleaver has served as SThrees Non-Executive Chairman since July 2000 and sits on the SThree Nomination Committee.
He spent the majority of his career with IBM, where he served as European Vice-President of Marketing and Chairman and Chief Executive in the United Kingdom.
Sir Anthony has also served as Chairman of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, IX Europe plc, United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, AEA Technology plc, General Cable plc, and the Medical Research Council, and as a Non-Executive Director of General Accident, Lockheed Martin UK Limited and Smith & Nephew plc.
He currently serves as Chairman of EngineeringUK and Novia Financial plc.
Sir Anthony was President of the Chartered Management Institute.
Russell Clements Chief Executive Officer Russell Clements has served as SThrees Chief Executive Officer since 2004 having previously held the position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer since 2001.
He worked for VNU Business Publications, before joining Computer Futures in 1986 shortly after its inception as the groups second employee.
He subsequently served as Sales Director and Managing Director of Computer Futures.
Russell holds a degree in Government from the University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania.
He is former Chairman of the Association of Professional Staffing Companies APSCo.
Gary Elden Chief Development Officer Gary Elden was appointed to the Board in July 2008, having been with the Group since 1990, when he joined Computer Futures.
He has held a number of senior positions, including that of founding Managing Director of Huxley Associates.
In his role as Chief Development Officer, he has special responsibility for the expansion of the Groups international operations and non-ICT disciplines.
Alex Smith Chief Financial Officer Alex Smith joined SThree in May 2008, having held a number of senior financial and operational roles in the leisure and retail sectors.
Most recently he held the position of Integration Finance Director at TUI Travel PLC.
Prior to this he was Finance Director of First Choices UK Mainstream business, at WH Smith plc, as Managing Director of its Travel Retail business and held senior financial roles at Travelodge and Forte PLC.
Alex has a degree in Economics from Durham University and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Sunil Wickremeratne Chief Operating Officer Sunil Wickremeratne has served as SThrees Chief Operating Officer since 2004 having previously been Managing Director of Progressive.
After working for VNU Business Publications, he joined Computer Futures in 1988 and subsequently established Progressive in 1990, Pathway in 1997 and Real IT Resourcing now Real Staffing Group in 1998.
Sunil holds a degree in Economics from University College, London.
SThree plc 1 Board of Directors and Secretary Report & Accounts 2009 continued Tony Ward Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Tony Ward, OBE was appointed to the SThree board Board in August 2006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees in October 2006.
Tony currently chairs the Remuneration Committee and has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles with blue chip companies, including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan Group plc.
He joined BAA in 1997 as Group HR Director and was Services Director from 1999 until March 2007, being responsible for activities including IT, Security, Rail and Airside Operations.
Tony was a board director of BAA plc between November 1999 and July 2006.
Tony is a Non-Executive Director of the OCS Group Limited, and an advisor to Manchester Square Partners LLP: a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development: a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality: and a graduate of the University of Leeds.
Alicja Lesniak Non-Executive Director Alicja Lesniak was appointed to the SThree Board in May 2006, to the SThree Audit Committee in July 2006, the Remuneration Committee in February 2008 and the Nomination Committee in April 2008.
Alicja is currently a Non-Executive Director of DTZ Holdings plc and was, until 30 September 2009, CFO of Aegis plc and has over thirty years experience in fast moving service businesses, in the latter twenty years holding senior financial and managerial roles within the advertising media sector, including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson in the UK.
Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant with them in 1976.
Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and holds a degree in Mathematics from Imperial College.
Paul Bowtell Non-Executive Director Paul Bowtell was appointed to the SThree Board and as Chairman of the SThree Audit Committee, in November 2007 and Nomination Committee in April 2008 and is currently Chief Financial Officer of TUI Travel PLC.
Paul has extensive experience gained from senior finance roles in a variety of companies including First Choice Holidays PLC and British Gas, a subsidiary of Centrica plc, where he was appointed Finance Director in 2002.
Prior to that, Paul was with WH Smith plc, where he held a number of corporate centre roles before becoming Finance Director of the UK Retail business, as well as senior tax roles at Forte and Arthur Andersen.
Paul is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Nadhim Zahawi Non-Executive Director Nadhim Zahawi was appointed to the SThree Board and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2008.
Nadhim is CEO and co-founder of YouGov plc, a leading international online market research agency.
He was previously European marketing director at Smith & Brooks, with responsibility for marketing brands such as Warner Bros, Disney and Barbie, after stepping down as a councillor for the London Borough of Wandsworth, a post he had held since 1994, in which he worked on public-sector consultation, planning, social services and research within local government.
Nadhim was previously a director at Allen Hinckley, the property rights licensing group, Marketing Director at Global Inc, a supplier to major retailers, and a Conservative Party candidate in the 1997 General Election.
Nadhim is a patron of the Genesis Initiative and Peace One Day.
Steve Hornbuckle Company Secretary Steve Hornbuckle was appointed to the role in October 2006.
Steve has over twenty years company secretarial experience, having held Deputy and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, London & Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc.
Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
