06 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Our strategy Creating an outcomes based business delivered by a highly skilled team of people Dr Richard M Steeves Chief Executive Synergy is a leading supplier of outsourced support Our objective is to sustain our growth through the services to the international healthcare market.
continued development of our core international markets Our core services are focused on improving patient and increasingly look for opportunities to expand our safety and reducing risk in healthcare environments services in new health related markets.
Prospects for through a combination of services including the the outsourcing markets we participate in appear very decontamination and sterilisation of medical devices positive as customers come under increasing pressure and instruments, infection control products and services to improve their efficiency whilst maintaining the quality and other related services such as occupational health of these services in what are highly regulated markets.
Given the global economic landscape Asia remains our highest priority where the large markets remain Despite growing revenues by 21.8%, like many other relatively strong and receptive to Synergys services.
companies, Synergy has experienced a difficult year, Our new facilities in China mark the next bold step in the although the fundamental drivers in our market remain development of our strategy for this region and we expect largely positive.
A combination of extreme external to see strong growth over the coming three to five years.
forces together with initial difficulties with new In Europe we have added additional sterilisation contracts within Decontamination services resulted capacity in the Netherlands and Ireland which will in a modest diminution in operating margins of 1.6%, support further organic growth in the next two years.
which caused a reduction in the level of our anticipated The development in Ireland adds the electron beam underlying EPS growth rate.
technology and is underpinned by a five year contract During the year we experienced an unprecedented with a large multinational healthcare company.
We are increase in commodities prices and energy costs also looking to develop further Synergys position in followed by a significant and rapid devaluation of our current European countries with a medium-term Sterling, all of which conspired to put pressure on view to widening our activities into the majority of operating margins accounting for approximately European countries.
0.9% of the 1.6% decline in our return on sales ROS.
In the Middle East we have established a base in The energy and commodity price increases have now Dubai as part of a plan to extend our hospital services abated but the decrease in Sterlings value continues to in the Emirates.
We maintain a flexible approach to adversely affect margins in some areas of the business.
investment and our plans for this region have been We are however, seeing improvements in margin temporarily scaled back given the change in the through a combination of price increases and cost regions economic prospects and the impact this has reductions and we remain confident that Group had on the expansion of its healthcare infrastructure.
operating margins will be back to historic levels In the short term Synergy is focused on developing in the autumn of 2009. the infection control market and lifting the volume Within Decontamination services we experienced of exports to this region.
a difficult start-up of two large contracts as well as lower We continue to have an interest in the North and than planned volumes with a range of other Primary South American markets but as Asia remains a priority Care services and these in combination accounted it is unlikely that we will develop a presence in these for 0.5% of the margin decline.
These initial regions for some years.
problems have been resolved through a combination of operational adjustments as well as a change in Acquisition strategy senior management.
Acquisitions have formed a successful part of Additionally, following the acquisition of Vernon Synergys growth strategy.
Valuations for targets are Carus in November 2007, a greater proportion of our beginning to adjust to the wider repricing of risk but revenue is derived from Healthcare solutions and this we feel that this process may have longer to run.
had a 0.2% impact on the operating margin in the In the meantime our short-term focus this year is to reported year.
reduce debt so that we are in a position to look at attractive, small bolt-on acquisitions next year.
Strategy These events have not materially affected the longer term strategy for Synergy and we therefore intend to continue with our core strategies of developing our service areas as well as continuing to internationalise the business.
Synergy competitively differentiates itself by creating an outcomes based business solution provided by a highly skilled team of people.
In addition all businesses employ a cost leadership strategy for cost centres other than those areas that contribute towards a differentiated service.
07 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Long-term strategy: Synergy Health is focused on becoming a leading, global health-related service provider with a presence in major markets around the world.
This will be achieved through: Geographic expansion into new international markets Further development of our core services Accessing new health related markets Selective acquisitions Dr Richard M Steeves Objectives for 2009 10 The challenging circumstances we faced during the year have not caused us to change our medium term strategy but we have nonetheless become much more focused on shorter term actions to ensure that our business retains its competitive advantages in the more difficult economic environment.
In the coming financial year the Group will focus on the following eight key objectives which in combination will result in the sustainable correction of operating margins whilst maintaining the right environment for sustained growth.
1 Talent management 2 Increasing capacity utilisation 3 Improving cash flow management and reducing debt 4 Increased cross selling 5 Reinforcing cost leadership 6 Business focus 7 Developing a significant presence in Asia 8 Continuing expansion into health related markets The following section of the report illustrates through the eight specic objectives how we will manage our business during todays tough environment and deliver positive results for the future.
Business review 08 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Our strategy Operating in long-term growth markets puts us in a positive position for the future Providing a safe and compliant environment for decontamination Throughout 2008 09 Synergy has Synergy Health has extended continued to expand its capacity its decontamination service to in decontamination services.
include a new facility at Redbridge, Within the UK a new, state of North London, serving acute the art facility has been built in hospitals and primary care facilities Knowsley, Merseyside, designed in North East London.
This unit, and constructed to the very latest originally created as a flagship standards and specifications to facility by the NHS in 2004, provide a safe and compliant extends Synergy's UK network environment for the decontamination of decontamination services and sterilisation of surgical facilities to 17. instruments and medical devices.
Progress with Synergys Due to open shortly, this new decontamination and sterilisation facility will provide services to facility in Suzhou, China has local customers in the Lancashire continued and is due to come and Merseyside regions.
This represents a major step forward in the standard of such services in the region and offers important support to the Chinese Ministry of Health in their efforts to improve sterilisation practices.
09 Talent management Increasing capacity utilisation Synergy Health plc 1 2 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Last year we set out a strategy to implement During the past 18 months we have made a talent management programme to a number of investments in new capacity improve the Groups capacity to manage to support our organic growth.
These growth and to help Synergy competitively include three new sterilisation facilities differentiate itself.
A number of development located in the Netherlands, Ireland and programmes were started in partnership China, which were commissioned to enable with the Warwick Business School and the Sterilisation services to lift its organic growth Chartered Management Institute, designed rates.
In addition we have built two new to prepare our best managers for the future decontamination facilities in the UK and in challenges that arise from our growth plans.
China to maintain the growth we have within A graduate recruitment programme was the Decontamination services division.
also initiated last year as part of our plan to Having made these substantial investments draw new talent into the business.
A new our objective this year is to successfully Group HR director was appointed in bring these facilities on stream and January 2009 to take these projects forward substantially fill the capacity over the and we have set objectives to further coming two years.
improve the quality of performance of our middle and senior management teams during the financial year.
"Award winning electro-elution innovation Synergy continues to lead This patented decontamination innovation within healthcare, method has been developed to winning a Medical Futures improve the efficacy of conventional Innovation award, one of the UKs techniques for cleaning reusable most sought after healthcare and instruments and is a particularly business accolades, for a novel exciting innovation because the method of cleaning surgical process can remove prion protein instruments known as ""electrodeposits, to help reduce the risk elution""."
The electro-elution device of transmissible spongiform removes protein from surgical encephalopathies TSEs such instruments by subjecting them as variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob to an electrical current in the disease vCJD.
presence of an electrolytic buffer, Synergy is now working in which rapidly repels protein from partnership with a global supplier their surfaces.
of decontamination and sterilisation It is especially effective at removing equipment to apply this ground deposits from difficult to clean areas breaking technology, to further such as catheter grooves or box enhance our automated cleaning joints and can remove alcohol fixed processes and set a new standard blood in less than five minutes.
Business review 10 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual report & financial statements 2009 Our strategy Improving cash flow Increased cross selling 3 4 management and reducing debt Synergy is a highly cash generative business, A large number of Synergys customers are with much of the cash generated allocated either on long-term contracts or Synergy is to maintenance and expansionary capital an intrinsic part of their supply chain.
Following a period of significant During the year we intend to develop investment in the business we are planning further our business solutions by promoting to limit our expansionary expenditure for the the wide range of products and services coming year creating an opportunity to available to such customers through increase free cash flow.
Further objectives Synergy and its strategic partners.
In recent have been set to reduce working capital and weeks our sales teams have been retrained together with the lower capital expenditure to manage a wider product portfolio and a we expect to see a reduction in net debt.
new CRM system for the Group will be implemented.
These actions are designed to improve organic growth by developing stronger relationships with our customers.
Applying specialist knowledge in laboratory services The expertise of our Laboratory Sometimes more sophisticated Services Technical Development analysis, using the recognised gold team was sought by Swedish standard of Liquid Chromatography biotechnology company, Biosensor Mass Spectrometry may be needed, Applications, to help validate their especially when having to provide new desktop instrumentation confirmation of a non-negative developed for the detection and result.
Here our Laboratory services analysis of drugs of abuse.
The have again been able to apply their team was able to demonstrate specialist knowledge, developing a that through testing saliva with unique method for detecting drug this equipment, rather than urine levels extracted directly from saliva.
samples as traditionally used, the Until now these samples have presence or absence of drugs been susceptible to degradation, including heroin, cocaine, but using Biosensors specific amphetamines and cannabis, technique for collection, this has could be determined.
This kind been overcome, enabling samples of screening is widely used in to remain stable for several days.
environments which demand high The advantage of saliva testing is levels of safety, such as logistics, that it indicates a more immediate warehousing, emergency services timeline for when a drug was taken and prisons and where reliable and is a more convenient sample results are often needed rapidly.
Through this co-operation between Synergy and Biosensor, there are a number of potential opportunities to work together by utilising these new techniques in our shared market place.
11 Reinforcing cost leadership Business focus Synergy Health plc 5 6 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 The business was buffeted by an unstable As Synergy continues to grow, some smaller economic environment in which a number businesses may no longer fit with our core of our costs increased either as a result of strategy and we may take the opportunity to energy and commodity price rises or more divest or exit these businesses.
One of our recently as a result of the devaluation of clear objectives this year is to increase the Sterling.
In response, the management team management teams focus on a narrower has initiated a number of projects to reduce range of strategic initiatives.
cost including a small number of facility closures.
We have reduced the cost base this year by approximately 1.5 million on an annualised basis.
A focus on greater efficiency across the business will have a positive effect on margins Linen management services and the environment Minimising environmental impact Similarly by changing the washing forms an integral part of Synergys technology employed at our sites operations, and the Linen we have been able to reduce water management services division has usage by over 50%, bringing about spearheaded a number of projects important environmental benefits, which reflect our commitment to whilst being able to maintain our protecting the environment whilst high standards of linen cleanliness.
The move to more fuel efficient Simple measures such as the vehicles with full body kits, sloping provision of an alternative to the roof and air deflectors has further traditional hospital blanket, have reduced our environmental impact.
allowed a number of hospitals to lower their linen consumption by reducing the number of items required per bed.
Business review 12 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Our strategy Reducing bacteria is key in healthcare services Microbiologists at Central showed a clear and consistent Manchester University Hospitals reduction in the numbers of bacteria NHS Foundation Trust, one of the found at the various test locations UKs leading teaching hospitals, and a significantly cleaner unveiled the six month results of a environment than that achieved major clinical trial, at the European with chlorine based disinfectants.
Congress of Clinical Microbiology Central to the success of and Infectious Diseases held in AzoMaxActive is its residual Helsinki.
The study is comparing effectiveness, enabling it to kill the current gold standard chlorine micro-organisms for days after it based disinfectants such as has been applied to a surface, hypochlorite bleach against the whereas conventional technologies, effectiveness of our AzoMaxActive including hypochlorite, are only products containing the patented effective for one to two minutes.
technology and results show It is this aspect of the technology that AzoMaxActive delivers a which scientists believe could offer significant performance advantage a wider breakthrough in the battle over hypochlorite.
to reduce the incidence of infection, The study is being run on four as it has the potential to help drive hospital wards and has looked at the down levels of harmful micrototal number of bacteria and the organisms and thereby reduce number of MRSA and C. Difficile on the risk of HCAI.
frequently touched surfaces such as bed rails, taps, door handles and nurse call buttons.
Two of the wards in the study were cleaned using our AzoMaxActive range and the other two with hypochlorite.
Those cleaned with AzoMaxActive products 13 Developing a significant Continuing expansion into health Synergy Health plc 7 8 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 presence in Asia related markets The new sterilisation and decontamination During the past year we have made progress facility in Suzhou, China becomes operational within Sterilisation services expanding our early this summer and marks the start of an services into the food sector particularly in ambitious strategy to grow our business in Thailand.
We will continue to look for China and Asia.
We began recruiting a opportunities to expand our food management team for China last year and decontamination services as well as expand we will continue to grow and develop this our infection control services into adjacent team in the new financial year as part of our health related markets.
medium term plan to create a significant presence in this region.
Positive outlook through extending our range of higher added value services Sterilisation services For over 30 years, Isotron has been As part of the ongoing development the partner of choice for providing of the service offering to our sterilisation services to a wide range customers, which span from large of industries and is Europes leading multinationals to small specialist supplier of outsourced sterilisation manufacturers, we have recently services.
Isotron was acquired by introduced a series of educational the Group in January 2007 and now initiatives, targeted specifically at forms Synergy Healths Sterilisation manufacturing, quality and regulatory services division.
personnel, to enable them to gain a good understanding of how to achieve With such breadth of experience, we this essential compliance.
At the are uniquely positioned to provide most recent of these, we hosted an expert insights into sterilisation education day featuring presentations technologies and the requirements from a number of industry experts, as surrounding regulatory compliance.
well as our own in-house specialists, These regulatory frameworks vary which focused on the microbiological widely according to industry sector validation regulations for irradiated and product application, but and gas sterilised products, together ensuring compliance is crucial for with the latest developments in companies to successfully market industry standards.
In September we also co-hosted the International Meeting on Radiation Processing held in London, attracting over 400 delegates comprising academics, regulatory agencies, customers and suppliers from around the world, further reinforcing Synergys thought leadership in this field.
