32 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Board of Directors and Advisors Board of Directors Stephen G Wilson Aged 54 Robert E Lerwill Aged 57 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive director Steve joined the Group as Chairman in October Robert was appointed as a non-executive director in 2002.
He is Chairman of the Companys Nominations January 2005.
He is currently chief executive of Aegis Committee.
Steve is the Finance Director of Headlam Group plc and is also a non-executive director of BAT Group plc.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with plc.
Between 1997 and 2003, he was an executive Thomson McLintock.
director of Cable & Wireless plc, and prior to that was group finance director of WPP Group plc.
Robert qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Dr Richard M Steeves Aged 47 Andersen.
He is chairman of the Companys Audit Chief Executive Committee.
Richard was appointed Chief Executive in 1992.
Previously he was corporate development manager for Braithwaite plc, a plant hire company, and associate Sir Duncan K Nichol Aged 67 consultant with strategic consultants, LEK Consulting.
Non-executive director Richard has a PhD in biochemistry from St Johns Duncan became a non-executive director in November College, Cambridge and a BSc 1st Class Hons in 2002.
Duncan was chief executive of the National human physiology from the University of British Health Service Management Executive between 1989 Columbia in Vancouver, Canada.
He was a non-executive director of BUPA the Non-executive Deputy Chairman of CareTech between 1994 and 2002 and is currently a nonHoldings plc.
executive director of Primary Group Limited and Deltex Medical Group plc.
He is chairman of the Companys Remuneration Committee.
Ivan M Jacques Aged 44 Group Finance Director Ivan joined the Group as Finance Director in 2003.
Marcello L M Smit Aged 48 He was previously a Chief Finance Officer and latterly Chief Executive of Lips Textielservice Holding B. V. chief operating officer at Fujitsu Consulting Northern Marcello joined LTS following completion of his Europe, the Japanese conglomerates IT services post-graduate studies in economics at the University business.
Ivan qualified as a chartered accountant of Amsterdam.
He has held various management with Arthur Andersen, where he specialised in positions in the organisation and was also a director corporate financial services.
of a joint venture healthcare foundation.
Marcello was appointed Chief Executive of LTS in 1987 and became a member of Synergys Board in November 2005.
Stephen G Wilson Dr Richard M Steeves Ivan M Jacques Robert E Lerwill Sir Duncan K Nichol Marcello L M Smit 33 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Senior Executive Board and Advisors Senior Executive Board Advisors Bankers: Richard Steeves HBOS plc Chief Executive 155 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3YB Ivan Jacques Group Finance Director The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Marcello Smit Third Floor Chief Executive of Lips Textielservice 3 Temple Back East Bristol BS1 6DZ Paul Santing Managing Director, Sterilisation services Nominated advisor Adrian Coward and joint brokers: Managing Director, Decontamination services Investec Bank UK Ltd 2 Gresham Street Alison Speak London EC2V 7QP Group HR Director Morgan Stanley & Co International plc 20 Bank Street Canary Wharf London E14 4AD Auditors: KPMG Audit Plc St Nicholas House Park Row Nottingham NG1 6FQ Registrars: Computershare Investor Services plc The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Helpline: 0870 703 6273 Company registration number: 3355631 Solicitors: Taylor Wessing LLP 5 New Street Square Registered office: Blackfriars Ground Floor Stella London EC4A 3TW Windmill Hill Business Park Whitehill Way DLA Piper UK LLP Swindon Wiltshire SN5 6NX Victoria Square House Victoria Square Birmingham B2 4DL Secretary: I M Jacques BSocSc ACA Paul Santing Adrian Coward Governance
