14 Business review Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Marketplace analysis The global market for healthcare continues to grow Decontamination services fast driven by changes in demographic trends.
Hospital sterilisation services have been traditionally Against the current, difficult macroeconomic climate provided by in-house departments operated by the healthcare services market remains robust and the hospitals.
Over the last eight years the UKs largely immune from these economic pressures Department of Health has been facilitating the creation particularly in Synergys sectors where the majority of of a dynamic outsourcing market to enable healthcare our services such as linen and sterilisation services providers to outsource their services as a method of are essential.
The UK market is estimated to be worth 350 million and is growing around 2% In most countries around the world, governments are per annum.
The other major markets for outsourced improving access to healthcare and in certain cases decontamination services include a number of European such as China, this new investment forms part of countries notably Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, a wider fiscal stimulus to offset the effects of the Italy and France and Japan together with newly economic downturn.
Indeed history shows that during developing markets in the Middle East, China, Malaysia periods of economic recession government spending on and Singapore.
public services such as healthcare tends to increase.
Medical device sterilisation Whilst healthcare spending is indeed increasing The medical device sterilisation service is an there remains a requirement to improve the efficiency established global market.
Single use medical devices of service delivery whilst maintaining quality and ranging from high value orthopaedic implants and regulatory standards, and it is this demand that creates drug eluting stents through to lower value disposable a dynamic outsourcing market.
products are sterilised using three main technologies: Regulation gamma, eBeam and ethylene oxide.
The medical Evolving regulatory requirements together with device market is estimated to be growing at 8% pa. tightening compliance continues to drive demands for The value of outsourced sterilisation is worth Synergys outsourced services.
The European Medical approximately US$800 million, with an estimated Devices Directive remains a model standard and forms growth rate of 4%.
Most multinational medical device the base for developing standards in the Middle East manufacturers have a mix of in-house and outsourced and Asia.
The Chinese Ministry of Health released service provision, but as the regulatory environment their final draft of new regulatory guidance for raising becomes more challenging and as companies look decontamination standards in April 2009 and included to improve their supply chains to improve efficiency, outsourcing as an acceptable route to achieving the outsourcing becomes an important solution.
In the UK new regulations under the The primary markets are the US and Europe where Health and Social Care Act 2008, which came into the large multinational corporations are situated.
force from April 2009, now require all NHS trusts to However, there has been a trend for a number of years ensure that they protect patients, workers and others for these companies to invest in lower cost regions from the known risks of acquiring healthcare associated such as Asia, Mexico and South America, and infections HCAI heightening the demand for increasingly these medical devices will also be infection control solutions.
sterilised in these countries as qualified outsourced Compliance with the regulatory standards is also service providers such as Synergy become established being enhanced.
In the UK for example the new Care in these new markets.
Quality Commission has taken over from the Healthcare Commission and has stepped up auditing to ensure that healthcare providers comply with the Hygiene Code, which includes uplifted decontamination standards.
The majority of NHS hospitals still needed to take additional steps to comply with the Hygiene Code following a review in November 2008.
In a similar manner the United States Food and Drug Administration FDA has increased the number of surveillance auditors in China as part of a strategy to ensure that medical manufacturers fully comply with applicable standards.
15 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Forward order book m 850 800 700 6.3% 600 510 350 160 03 05 05 06 07 08 09 Infection control In the UK, recent decreases in the rates of MRSA and Infection control remains a serious issue for healthcare Clostridium difficile show that the picture is improving.
providers on a global basis, and continues to be a fast However the threat posed by these infections is growing, high value market.
Four million HCAIs occur changing, with some strains of MRSA becoming more in Europe every year causing around 37,000 deaths as easily transmissible, a rise in community-acquired well as an extra 16 million hospital days, creating both MRSA and the transfer of infection from the a care and economic prize for developing advanced community into hospitals.
One of the biggest technologies to mitigate these risks.
Market growth is challenges remains the cleanliness of clinical largely driven by new product based technologies which environments.
A report in November 2008 revealed target an aspect of environmental control such as hard that in spot checks, 90% of acute Trusts failed to surface cleaners, hand hygiene systems or patient comply fully with the former Healthcare Commissions hygiene systems.
Within Europe the principal drivers in helping to The Department of Healths 2007 Comprehensive manage down the risk of HCAI have been the improved Spending Review set a new target to maintain the levels of awareness and education, multiple and wide current improvements in infection rates of MRSA ranging government initiatives and a desire to reduce and a new national target to reduce the number of the complication they add to service delivery and the C. Difficile infections by 30% in 201011 over financial burden they create.
The spending review also Monitoring, surveillance and mandatory reporting included an additional 270 million per annum by have been stepped up in many of our major markets 201011 to tackle HCAIs.
and the results have been used to bring about changes Improvements to environmental cleaning and in practice.
Industry has also responded with innovative compliance with infection control practices are at the technologies and design, but early adoption of these centre of the fight against HCAI.
Therefore changes has sometimes been thwarted, delayed by lengthy to the way services are delivered, with an emphasis procurement processes and in some cases government on benchmarking and standardisation of approach guidance which has not kept up with technological will create yet more opportunities for outsourcing.
advance, and Synergy has not been immune to Synergy is well placed to take advantage of these effects.
