0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 16:24 Page 22 What we do Going to market We provide customers in four key markets with quality services and ingredients made from corn or cane sugar, which impart functionality that is vital for our customers products.
Generating returns and growing our business requires carefully managing the product mix.
This involves maintaining a high-volume, low-cost commodity base to help produce our higher-margin, value added ingredients and services.
Food and beverage Industrial Animal feed The global food and beverage The global market for industrial We serve this market with molasses ingredient market is currently worth ingredients has come under severe produced in Europe and corn gluten about US$30 billion and historically pressure as a result of the continuing meal and corn gluten feed produced has grown at a rate of around global recession.
However, over the in both Europe and the USA.
We count the vast longer term, industrial ingredients These are by-products of our key majority of the worlds top 100 food remain a potential area of growth production processes and are sold and beverage companies as our for Tate & Lyle as the trend towards as nourishing feed ingredients for customers.
Food and beverage greener living and the replacement livestock, fish and pet foods.
This is is Tate & Lyles largest market, of petrochemicals stimulates important because selling on these comprising over 70% of the Groups demand for ingredients made from products helps us manage the net total sales.
Key drivers in this renewable sources.
Traditional cost of our raw materials.
market are the need for convenience industrial markets for Tate & Lyle and an interest in healthy eating, have included paper and board Pharmaceutical and as people live longer, busier lives.
starches, fuels ethanol and personal care The development of emerging household goods acidulants.
A nascent market for Tate & Lyle, economies, like Brazil, India and New markets for us include oil-well pharmaceutical and personal care China, has also fuelled growth drilling biogums, textiles and is one we expect will grow in the in demand for food ingredients plastics Bio-PDO.
future although remaining relatively in recent years.
At the moment, we sell two value added ingredients into this market: Zemea cosmetics and creams through our joint venture DuPont Tate & Lyle BioProducts, and SPLENDA Sucralose to sweeten medicines without adding calories.
You are likely to buy products made with our ingredients.
Sweetened with high fructose corn syrup, sugar or SPLENDA Sucralose.
Detergents to get clothes really clean?
Strong and glossy thanks to our paper starch.
22 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 16:25 Page 23 Nicholas Fosteras, Vice President Caroline Sanders, Marketing Director Sales, Global Enterprise Accounts, Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas Challenging economic circumstances offer us new Partnership with customers has never been more ways to help customers.
Our relationships are for the long term, service, by which we modify customers recipes to reduce so were looking together at the whole supply chain costs without compromising the taste of the product, to work out how we can manage risk together is particularly interesting for food and beverage and save costs.
Andrew Jones, Sales & Marketing Director, Sugars Rheem Lock, Senior Product Manager, Sucralose Both we and our customers want to get through these Our history of excellent product quality, with purity levels difficult economic times with success, so it makes consistently above 99%, makes us the safest option for sense to help each other.
Were working with our customers, who also value the complete traceability customers to find ways of dealing with operational of our SPLENDA Sucralose and our reliability in and business issues for our mutual benefit.
shipping on time, every time.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 23 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 16 6 09 14:32 Page 24 What we do Going to market continued Food and beverage Health and wellness Convenience Sustainability ethical sourcing - digestive health and immunity Indulgence Portion calorie control - weight management Clean label Home baking sugars - childrens health development natural organics - heart health Cost consciousness Increasing pressure for high Dealing with a changing - volatile raw material prices quality from suppliers regulatory environment - rise of private label own-label Supply chain ethics Traceability - cost-effective ways of delivering nutritional benefits Manufacturers Retailers branded and contract Food service operators - beverage - dairy - bakery - snack food convenience - confectionery PROMITOR dietary fibres Retail brands: Services: KRYSTAR crystalline fructose Lyles Golden Syrup CREATE innovations in shape, STA-Lite polydextrose Branded retail sugars structure, taste and texture SPLENDA Sucralose - Tate & Lyle UK OPTIMIZE maximising Value added starches, e. g. - Sidul Sores Portugal efficiency and value STA-Slim, TENDERJEL, Merigel, REBALANCE reformulating ResistamyI and FREEZIST to lower-fat, lower-sugar and Food stabilising systems, lower-calorie positions e. g. Hamulsion and Frimulsion ENRICH enhancing nutritional benefits of foods and beverages High fructose corn syrup Citric acid Corn oil Corn syrup glucose Pearl starches Industrial sugars 24 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 Examples of highExamples of branded or Types of Customer Market volume primary value added ingredients customer trends consumer products and trends by-products 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:27 Page 25 Industrial Animal feed Personal care and pharmaceuticals Increased awareness of green High nutrient digestibility Replacement of petrochemicals issues environmental footprint nutrient efficiency preference for natural products Replacement of plastics Animal health petrochemicals Increased awareness of Volatile cereal costs global Pricing awareness but willingness petrochemical vs. renewable options impacting feed costs to pay for functionality Cost consciousness volatile raw Natural product claims material prices personal care Manufacturers Producers Manufacturers - paper - adhesives - dairy - poultry - cosmetics and personal care - detergent - fide-icing - beef - aquaculture hand creams, deodorantspackaging - textiles - pig - pet - over-the-counter OTC plastics - building pharmaceuticals products Oil-well drilling Fuel suppliers ETHYLEX paper starch Zemea personal care grade STA-LOK cationic starches Bio-PDO STADEX dextrin SPLENDA Sucralose STARPOL water soluble polymers StaZan X industrial xanthan gums Susterra industrial grade Bio-PDO Pearl starches Molasses Corn syrup glucose Ethanol Corn gluten feed Sugar Citric acid Corn gluten meal Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 25 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
