0920 T&L Mid 60-79. qxd 15 6 09 21:13 Page 62 How we run the business Executive management The Group Executive Committee oversees the development and execution of the Groups strategy, and has overall responsibility for achieving business results.
Dr Bob Fisher Olivier Rigaud Members of the President, Global R&D President, Food & Industrial Group Executive Committee Bob joined Tate & Lyle as Head of Global Ingredients, Europe R&D in December 2006 and was appointed After graduating in Chemistry from Iain Ferguson Chairman President Global R&D in July 2008.
He University Aix-Marseille in 1988 Olivier Chief Executive joined from the International Life Science joined Tate & Lyle Amylum business as Iains biography is on page 60.
Institute, North America, where he was a sales manager in France.
He then held Executive Director and Chief Operating various management positions including Tim Lodge Officer.
Prior to that, he was Executive in industrial products, liquid sweeteners Group Finance Director Vice President, Business Development and and alcohol sales.
In 2000, Olivier became Tims biography is on page 60.
New Technology for John I. Haas, a leading Vice President Food Ingredients, Europe.
producer and trader of hops, and before In July 2008 he was appointed President, Robert Gibber that Vice President, Research & Development, Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe.
Company Secretary and General Counsel North America, for The Campbell Soup Roberts biography is on page 61.
Bob has a PhD in Food Science.
Matt Wineinger President, Food & Industrial Ian Bacon Karl Kramer Ingredients, Americas Chief Executive, Sugars President, Sucralose Matt joined Tate & Lyle in March 2008 Ian joined Tate & Lyle in November 2005 Karl joined Tate & Lyle in April 2008 and and became President, Food & Industrial and became Chief Executive, Sugars in became President, Sucralose in June 2008.
He joined from Unilever A graduate of Chemical Engineering from joined from Swift and Co, where he was where he was Vice President, Global the New Jersey Institute of Technology, Karl President of their Australian Meat Holdings Customer Development with responsibility began his career in R&D at General Foods.
A graduate of Kansas State for increasing sales growth across the He then worked in brand management for University, Matt started his career in the business.
A graduate of Birmingham Nestl, and in international sales for the Food Products Division at Procter & Gamble University, Ian began his 26-year career with NutraSweet Kelco Division of Monsanto.
and then worked in a variety of roles for Unilever in 1979, holding a number of senior Before joining Tate & Lyle, Karl held various Monsanto.
In 2000 he joined Cargill, positions including Vice President, Operations general management roles in the flavour becoming President of Sales, Marketing North Africa, Middle East and Turkey: and division of Givaudan.
Karl holds an MBA and Research & Development in 2002 for General Manager, Birds Eye Walls.
from the New York University Stern School its Meat Solutions division in Kansas.
Executive management structure Iain Ferguson Chief Executive Central functions Research and Food & Industrial Food & Industrial Sugars Sucralose Finance, Legal, development Ingredients, Ingredients, Europe Chief Executive President Human Resources, President Americas President Ian Bacon Karl Kramer Secretariat, Corporate Dr Bob Fisher President Olivier Rigaud Development, Matt Wineinger Corporate Affairs Support functions Business divisions 62 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009
