0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 12 6 09 16:48 Page 88 Directors remuneration report Former executive directors to take legally-appropriate mitigation factors into account Stanley Musesengwa, who left the Company on 31 July 2008, in determining the amount of compensation payable.
is a member of the Group Scheme and accrued pension at a rate of 1 30th of pensionable earnings for each year of Executive directors service.
Before 6 April 2006, the extent to which his basic All the executive directors have contracts terminable by the salary was pensionable was restricted by the statutory Company on not more than one years notice and by the earnings cap, and he received a cash allowance based on a individual director on six months notice.
As regards mitigation, percentage of his basic salary in excess of this cap.
The new in a case where the Company seeks early termination of the tax regime introduced on 6 April 2006 removed this cap and contract other than where summary dismissal is appropriate, Stanley Musesengwa elected to forego his cash allowance under the service contract for Iain Ferguson, the Company and receive pension accrual after this date based on his full has the right, but not the obligation, to pay in lieu of notice, basic salary without restriction.
the salary and contractual benefits that the director would have received during the notice period.
The service contract His pensionable earnings in relation to pensionable service for Tim Lodge also entitles the Company to make staged accrued before 6 April 2006 have been restricted by a payments of pay in lieu of notice given by the Company.
His final pensionable earnings Company may, as a consequence, make a reduced payment, were based on his highest basic salary in the last five or require phased payment, so as to ensure the relevant completed tax years before leaving, adjusted for the earnings director fulfils his obligation to mitigate his losses.
The benefit also includes a widows pension payable on his death, and, for the first four The details of the executive directors service contracts as at months of the year ended 31 March 2009, he was covered 31 March 2009 are given in the table below.
by a lump sum benefit which would have been payable upon Unexpired Notice death in service.
His pension and the contingent widows Date of term period pension are subject to increases in line with the RPI, as above.
Director contract weeks weeks Stuart Strathdee stepped down from the Board at the 2008 1 Iain Ferguson 15 04 03 52 52 AGM but will remain with the Company until the end of July Tim Lodge 04 12 09 52 52 2009.
He is a member of the Group Scheme and is eligible 1.
As announced on 19 May 2009, Iain Ferguson will be leaving the Group for a pension equal to two-thirds of his final pensionable during the 2010 financial year.
earnings highest basic salary in the last five completed tax years payable from his normal retirement date.
The benefit Former executive directors also includes a widows pension payable on his death and a Stuart Strathdee and Stanley Musesengwa retired as lump sum on death in service.
Once in payment, his pension executive directors and stepped down from the Board at the and any subsequent widows pension is subject to annual 2008 AGM.
Since then, Stuart Strathdee has remained an increases in line with the RPI as above.
employee working on strategic development.
His salary During the year ended 31 March 2008, Stuart Strathdee remains at 343,000 per annum but will not be reviewed completed the maximum service that counts for pension again before he leaves the Group on 31 July 2009.
He is purposes, so over the current year he accrued no further eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme although pensionable service.
His accrued pension, however, was any payment will be pro-rated for the year ending 31 March increased in line with his pensionable earnings.
When the 2010 for actual time served.
He continues to be provided with new tax regime for UK pensions was introduced on 6 April a company car and health insurance.
2006, Stuart Strathdee elected to continue with future Stanley Musesengwa and John Nicholas left the Company pension accrual, as opposed to taking the cash alternative, after stepping down from the Board and payments as so potentially he could incur a tax charge on the value of any compensation for loss of office made to them pursuant to benefits in excess of the relevant lifetime tax allowance.
the terms of their service contracts are detailed on page 90.
John Nicholas left the Company on 30 September 2008.
He was not a member of the Group Scheme for pension Chairman and non-executive directors purposes and accordingly accrued no pension benefits under Chairman it.
He was paid a cash allowance calculated as a percentage Sir David Lees was appointed non-executive Chairman of base salary from which he made his own pension on 1 October 1998 for an initial period of three years.
He was provided with life assurance cover and This appointment was extended by the Board upon the also participated in the Group Income Protection Scheme.
recommendation of the Nominations Committee until On leaving service, John Nicholass participation in the Group 30 September 2002, and continued thereafter terminable by Income Protection Scheme and his life assurance cover ceased.
the Company or Sir David Lees on not less than one years notice.
As announced on 28 November 2008, Sir David Lees Details of the accrued pension benefits for those executive will leave the Company by the end of the 2009 calendar directors who participate in the Group Scheme are given year at which time he will be replaced as Chairman by on page 94.
Details of amounts paid in lieu of pensions are Sir Peter Gershon.
included in the table on page 90, under pension allowance.
Following the most recent review of his fees on 1 October Service contracts 2008, the Remuneration Committee approved an increase Policy in the Chairmans fee to 340,000 2008 330,500.
Contracts for executive directors should be terminable by the Company on a maximum of one years notice, except Chairman-elect in special circumstances, and by the director on up to six Sir Peter Gershon was appointed as a non-executive director months notice.
In the event of early termination of an and Chairman-elect from 1 February 2009.
The Remuneration executive directors contract, the Companys policy is Committee approved an initial fee of 100,000 per annum, 88 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009
