0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 18:33 Page 19 Preserving value Generating optimal returns from large-scale commodity manufacturing requires firm cost and risk control.
This involves careful management of any commodity exposure: negotiating the right price for our ingredients: and providing our customers with quality products, within specification, on time, every time.
Using every part of The majority of our commodity in either Europe or the USA.
the raw material ingredients, both food and industrial, Our European sugars business is In our production processes, are sold through this mechanism, also different because the cost of nothing is wasted.
In sugar refining, with only a small amount sold on purchasing cane sugar and the final molasses a by-product of the a spot or ad hoc basis.
selling price of the finished product refining process is sold as animal are largely determined by the EU feed or used as a raw material for The pricing rounds are highly Sugar Regime.
fermentation-based ingredients like commercial and it is the citric acid and alcohol.
Likewise, in responsibility of our sales teams Ensuring quality corn processing, every part of the to ensure that we get the best price Because our ingredients enter the kernel is valuable, and selling on for our products, while remaining food chain in consumer products, those parts we do not use ourselves competitive against other ingredient stringent quality standards are helps manage the net cost of corn.
suppliers who may sell the same enforced at every site.
Quality ingredient or substitute products.
assurance also reduces waste and Negotiating prices costs, and fosters good customer and volumes In the USA, as soon as a customer relations.
Every Tate & Lyle Selling corn-based commodity order is agreed, if we do not hold manufacturing facility has to comply products in both the USA and actual corn in storage, we manage with Group minimum standards Europe is usually done through the risk of changing corn prices by which include third-party validation annual pricing rounds.
These involve hedging corn costs on the Chicago of food safety and quality systems.
a series of face-to-face meetings Mercantile Exchange.
In Europe, with customers, held over a a smaller market for us than the Logistics number of months, where prices USA, there is no liquid corn futures Our logistics teams are responsible for products like high fructose market, which means we cannot for warehousing, freight costs and corn syrup, or charges for toll hedge the full corn price risk as we customer service.
Our largest production, are negotiated for the can in the USA.
It is not possible to logistics hub is based in Lafayette, next 12 months or in some cases use hedging procedures to lock in Indiana, which is broadly central on a multi-year basis.
the majority of by-product revenues to all our US plants.
Nothing is wasted Raw material hedging fibre We use every part of the corn kernel.
In the USA, we use hedging Corn is broken down into 57% corn procedures to protect against price starch used to make food and changes in purchased corn.
This Starch industrial ingredients : 22% corn gluten generally involves entering into a feed made from the hull and fibre and futures contract at the Chicago used in cattle feed : 4% corn gluten Mercantile Exchange CME whenever meal extracted from the endosperm we take an order from a customer, Starch and used in aquaculture feed and pet which means we can buy corn at a and food : 3% corn oil made from the germ specific price at a set date in the gluten and used by the food industry : and the future, allowing us to budget without remaining 14% is water.
CME contracts offer the opportunity to establish raw material values as quoted today for periods up to Germ two years in advance.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 19 Endosperm STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
