0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 15 6 09 18:22 Page 20 What we do Adding value Rapidly changing lifestyles are causing consumers to demand more from the products they buy be they good food on-the-go or natural cosmetics.
Our expertise in carbohydrate processing and blending, specialist R&D knowledge and insights into the market help us develop ingredients that add taste, nutrition and increased functionality to our customers products.
Our high-volume commodity We use this insight to drive our own Our Research and Development base allows us to run our plants product development, to differentiate R&D, marketing and regulatory efficiently and produce a low-cost ourselves from our competitors and, teams work together to provide substrate we can then use to make importantly, to give our customers insights from consumer research, speciality, higher-margin products an advantage by working with support on labelling requirements, for both food and industrial Tate & Lyle.
and assistance on meeting customers.
These products, some product claims.
of which are branded, add value Each year we run a programme through the fact that they are either of studies to canvass the views of Research and development proprietary to Tate & Lyle, have consumers in Europe, the Americas We have over 280 people in our greater functionality than alternatives, and Asia.
We typically use basic R&D team worldwide working to or come with an additional service attitudinal research such as focus develop innovative ingredients from for the customer.
groups as a starting point, then renewable resources.
Our R&D complete the programme with function is headquartered in our Consumer insights detailed quantitative studies.
In largest US facility, Decatur, Illinois.
At the heart of our customer one of our more recent surveys, In September 2008 we opened approach is the use of market we canvassed more than 10,000 our new Innovation Centre in Lille, research to understand the consumers in Europe, the USA, France, and we also have application consumer our customers Mexico and Brazil on their attitudes laboratories in countries such as customer, the markets we operate to dietary fibre.
This research China, India and Australia which are in and our customers needs.
In demonstrated a growing combined with our sales offices.
2005 we were one of the first food understanding of the benefits of ingredients companies to go direct fibre in a healthy diet, which we are Our in-house research and to the consumer to understand for addressing with our PROMITOR development capability is organised ourselves what drives purchasing range of dietary fibres.
into three primary groups: product habits, and what consumers might development, technology, and look for in future products.
Global value added food ingredients 02. market Addressable market size bn The key driver of long-term growth for our business is value added food ingredients.
In this market we operate primarily within three categories: sweeteners, texturants, and wellness ingredients.
In 2008, the addressable global market in these categories was estimated to be worth 6.4 billion, and is forecast to grow at a compound average annual rate of 4.3% to 7.2 billion in 2011.
The food sector has proven to be relatively resilient 08 09 10 11 to global recessionary pressures and Texturants Sweeteners Wellness therefore growth is currently expected Sources: Leatherhead Food Ingredients Report to continue broadly in line with 2007, SRI Flavours Report 2007, SRI Nutraceuticals this forecast.
Using alliances and joint ventures into sweeteners, wellness, Our partnership with Kings College can be an efficient way to lower texturants, bio-products, industrial London will allow us to share our cost of investing in new areas and animal feed.
This group focuses knowledge and ultimately bring new and markets, and to help secure on developing new products and products and technologies to market.
access to new and complementary improving existing products.
Examples The technology group covers We also have a Research Advisory include our partnerships with McNeil process engineering, analytical Group comprising a panel of six Nutritionals a Johnson & Johnson and carbohydrate chemistry, and international industry and academic company on SPLENDA Sucralose, biochemicals.
Its role is to experts, chaired by one of our nonand with DuPont on Bio-PDO.
determine how to create, analyse executive directors, Dr Barry Zoumas, and manufacture ingredients.
The which reviews our research and Food Systems businesses customer solutions group includes development portfolio and provides In certain geographies where there applications and technical service insight into how leading-edge is growth potential in the food teams.
The applications teams technologies could apply to ingredients market, we have taken develop prototypes and provide future developments.
the opportunity to invest in food sensory analysis for customers using systems, or blending and speciality our ingredients, while the technical Our venture capital fund, Tate & Lyle ingredients businesses.
These services teams work directly with Ventures, which was launched in businesses open up new avenues our customers to incorporate our 2006, invests in early stage highfor selling ingredients through their ingredients into their products.
growth companies that specialise relationships with smallto mediumin renewable ingredients, food sized customers and their expertise Research partnerships technologies, renewable resources in specific areas such as the dairy To give us fresh ideas and insights and industrial processing industry, gums and custom into the market, we develop technologies.
Primarily based in partnerships with the external fund has made five investments, North America, Germany, Italy and research community.
the most recent in May 2008 in South Africa, these businesses Fugeia, a Belgian company focusing source ingredients and use them In October 2008, with the support on gut health technology.
to develop solutions for customers.
of a 4.5 million contribution over five Their specialist knowledge years from Tate & Lyle, a new Clinical Commercial partnerships supplements our existing in-house Research Facility was opened by One way of growing our business R&D capability.
These businesses Kings College London at St Thomas is to form joint ventures or also often act as an R&D team for Hospital to undertake research into partnerships to develop and smallto medium-sized customers areas such as gastrointestinal health, distribute new products, and to and, by building close working carbohydrate metabolism, and enhance the capabilities of our relationships, become trusted medical conditions such as obesity, existing portfolio of ingredients.
Bringing innovation to our customers 03.
Target R&D spend Our new Innovation Centre in Lille, Most of our spend is on internal Tate & Lyle France, focuses on developing capabilities fundamental research, Ventures ingredients for four distinct fields: weight product development and process 2% External alliances management: digestive health and improvement.
The remainder is spent 15% immunity: vitality: and healthy ageing.
on developing relationships with the Leadership This centre is not only used by our own external research community, through building research scientists, but is also made available our venture fund and alliances with 14% to our customers who, with the help key academic institutions.
Our target of our technical service teams, can is to spend 4% to 5% of value added use our state-of-the art facilities to turnover on R&D.
In the year ended develop and refine new food and 31 March 2009, we spent Process beverage products.
improvement Application product 14% development 55% Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 21 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
