0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 16 6 09 11:24 Page 18 What we do Creating volume To create the hundreds of quality ingredients our customers want, we begin by processing large volumes of raw materials from which we create basic products that are either sold on or used as the starting point for developing speciality ingredients and branded goods.
Creating this volume and operating large-scale, efficient plants, allows us to keep unit costs low across the business.
We operate more than 45 production which are used to identify ways to commissioned.
Once it is fully facilities mainly in the Americas, make our manufacturing processes operational, the biomass boiler Europe and South East Asia.
Process improvements will reduce the refinerys carbon Tate & Lyle is the largest cane sugar identified at our sucralose pilot plant footprint by more than 20%, and refiner in Europe, and in the USA, over the last 12 months have replace 70% of its fossil fuel use our corn wet milling plants process enabled us to achieve a breakthrough with a renewable energy source.
some 2% of the annual corn crop.
Our Sugars business also has a Manufacturing efficiency Developing new technologies specialist team, Tate & Lyle Process Operating our plants safely and Our research and technology teams Technology, which provides support efficiently at high volumes requires are dedicated to developing the services, process engineering and reliable and up-to-date manufacturing latest engineering technologies, design expertise to the sugar processes.
All our divisions have both for our existing plants and cane industry worldwide.
highly qualified teams of engineers for new builds.
Tate & Lyle has who make sure our plants function developed patented, proprietary Protecting our expertise effectively, efficiently and safely.
technology, known as CORNBELT, To support our businesses and The engineers are actively involved which has been installed at our protect our competitive advantage, in the manufacturing line and use a Loudon, Tennessee, plant.
This is we maintain a significant number number of computer-based process designed to help increase starch of patents.
Much of the product tools to track and model data yields while at the same time innovation and development to help identify opportunities for reducing per unit energy work we do results in patentable efficiency improvements such as consumption.
Its energy or proprietary new technology.
increasing yields, minimising conservation technology is also We monitor market developments waste and saving energy.
being used at our cane sugar closely to identify any potential refinery in London.
The refinerys violations of our patents and Our US corn wet milling and new 20 million biomass boiler intellectual property and take sucralose businesses both have was mechanically complete in appropriate legal action where pilot plants run by dedicated teams March 2009 and is now being we consider it necessary.
Our four large corn wet mills in the USA with a fifth in Fort Dodge, Iowa, under construction and our corn wet mills in and around Europe are strategically located either in prime corn growing US cornbelt European areas or near key markets to help cornbelt us serve our customers.
Corn wet mills 18 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009
