0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 16 6 09 18:06 Page 84 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration policy requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the the Act and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
remuneration of the executive directors in accordance with  LLP have audited the contents a policy determined by the Committee and agreed with the required by the Act the tabular information on pages 90 to Board.
For executive directors and senior executives, the 95.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at policy is to provide packages that attract, motivate and retain the Annual General Meeting AGM on 23 July 2009. high-calibre individuals to manage the Group successfully for the benefit of shareholders.
They are designed to: Remuneration Committee be competitive and commensurate with other UK-based The Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises the international businesses of similar size: independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the align the interests of executives and shareholders by Company.
The following served during the year: Evert Henkes rewarding growth in shareholder value: Committee Chairman, Elisabeth Airey, Richard Delbridge, reward above-average performance: Sir David Lees, Robert Walker and Dr Barry Zoumas.
ensure that performance-related elements form Sir Peter Gershon became a member of the Committee a significant proportion of the total remuneration on his appointment as a non-executive director and package: and Chairman-elect on 1 February 2009. take into account local country practice.
The Chief Executive, Human Resources Director PLC, It is intended that this policy will continue during the year Group Compensation Manager and Company Secretary and ending 31 March 2010.
General Counsel, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, are normally invited to attend meetings, although not when Review of executive remuneration their own remuneration is discussed.
Each year, with the help of its independent remuneration The Committee met 11 times during the year.
Individual adviser, the Committee reviews the appropriateness of members attendance records at meetings during the year executive remuneration arrangements.
During the year ended are given in the table on page 63.
31 March 2009 the Committee undertook a comprehensive review to ensure that arrangements for executive directors The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on and others were fit for purpose and reflected both the www.
com, are reviewed annually to ensure they evolving strategic objectives and business needs of the Group reflect best practice.
and changing competitive market trends and best practice.
The Committee reviews its work and effectiveness each year The main conclusions were: and reports any recommendations to the Board.
The 2009 the overall approach to remuneration was generally well review concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its role and aligned to Company performance and shareholder value: responsibilities appropriately.
for some executive roles, the levels of annual bonus or long-term incentive opportunity were below the relevant The Committee determines the individual remuneration market median, but the Committee concluded that for the packages of each executive director and other members of executive directors these should, for the time being, the Group Executive Committee see page 62.
This includes remain unchanged: base salary, benefits and other allowances, bonus, long-term the annual bonus for division Presidents should give due incentives and terms of employment, including those upon regard to the performance of their respective divisions: which service may be terminated.
Additionally, the Committee for the PSP, an earnings per share performance measure approves the base salary, benefits and long-term incentives of should be applied alongside the existing relative total certain other senior executives.
In consultation with the Chief shareholder return TSR metric: and Executive, the Committee also determines the Chairmans to streamline the total remuneration package, the DBSP remuneration.
The Chairman does not participate in should be suspended.
discussions or decisions relating to his own remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for the long-term incentive The changes to remuneration policy are explained in more plans LTIPs operated by the Company.
detail in the following sections.
To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices remain Remuneration package competitive, the Committee receives advice from independent Composition remuneration consultants.
During the year, the Committee The current remuneration package for executive directors reappointed Jeremy Orbell of Hewitt New Bridge Street consists of base salary, benefits and other allowances, Hewitt to act as its principal adviser.
This appointment was in annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension.
The accordance with the Committees policy whereby an individual Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion consultant appointed to advise the Committee on the of the total package is performance-related, at both target remuneration of executive directors and certain other senior and stretch levels.
executives shall not also advise Group management on the remuneration of any other executives in the Group.
The relative proportions of the Chief Executives and the In addition to market remuneration data provided by Hewitt, Group Finance Directors remuneration, when valued at both the Committee gets data from a Towers Perrin survey, and target and stretch performance levels on the basis of the Total Shareholder Return performance data and ranking award value of the long-term incentives which they would information for the Performance Share Plan PSP and normally be granted but excluding post-retirement benefits Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP from Kepler Associates.
and allowances paid in lieu of pensions, are shown in the Linklaters provides general legal advice on remuneration charts on the page opposite.
Hewitt, Towers Perrin and Kepler Associates provided no other services to the Group.
Linklaters gave legal advice on a range of matters.
84 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 16 6 09 18:03 Page 85 Directors remuneration report Annual bonus scheme Target performance Chief Executive Group Finance Director Policy and award levels The Group operates an annual cash bonus scheme for  pay 53% related pay 55% executive directors and senior executives, which is determined by reference to the performance of the Group, or appropriate division or subsidiary, primarily against financial objectives.
Annual bonuses payable under the scheme are capped at 100% of base salary or lower, depending on the executives responsibilities.
There is a threshold level below which no bonus is paid.
The Committee reviews the attainment 47% 45% of financial targets and agrees the bonus payments.
 paid to executive directors do not form part related pay related pay of pensionable earnings.
For the year ended 31 March 2009, the threshold, target and Stretch performance maximum award level for executive directors was 10%, 50% Chief Executive Group Finance Director and 100% of base salary respectively.
 criteria for the scheme are set by the Committee related pay 29% related pay 31% at the beginning of each financial year.
In setting these targets, the Committee considers the Groups annual operating plan: performance in previous years: market expectations: and the prevailing economic climate.
To ensure that bonuses are not inflated or deflated as a result of exchange rate movements, the Group profit before tax, 71% 69% exceptional items and amortisation PBTEA numbers for  purposes are restated on the basis of the exchange related pay related pay rates used for the Groups annual operating plan agreed by the Board at the start of the year.
Base salary Bonus for the year ended 31 March 2009 Base salaries take account of the median relative to similar For the year ended 31 March 2009, the performance target companies generally those occupying positions 50 to 130 criteria consisted of threshold and target awards payable on of the FTSE rankings, where equivalent or similar roles are the achievement of a predetermined PBTEA level, and a deemed to exist and also to reflect job responsibilities and maximum award payable for the achievement of a PBTEA the sustained level of individual performance.
level in excess of target performance.
For bonus purposes, The Committee reviews the base salary of each executive PBTEA was based on the performance of the Groups director annually.
It considers the external economic continuing businesses excluding the results of businesses environment, market data, individual performance, the Groups sold during the year.
financial performance and also the level of pay awards made to The PBTEA achieved by continuing businesses for the year other employees and executives elsewhere across the Group.
ended 31 March 2009, restated on a constant exchange rate The Chief Executives base salary was reviewed on 1 April 2009. basis, did not reach the threshold level of performance, and, No increase was awarded, consistent with the decision not to as a result, executive directors did not receive a bonus.
award salary increases across Tate & Lyle for the 2010 Executive directors and certain other senior executives used financial year, with the exception of contractual and statutory to be offered the opportunity to invest up to 50% of their cash obligations and those obligations from previous negotiations bonus in Tate & Lyle shares through the DBSP.
However, the with Union-represented employees.
Following his appointment Committee has decided to suspend this arrangement for the on 4 December 2008, the Group Finance Directors base year ended 31 March 2009 and thereafter.
Details of the salary will not be reviewed until 1 April 2010, in line with the DBSP and an explanation of the Committees decision can terms of his appointment.
Executive directors base salaries are shown in the table below.
Bonus for the year ending 31 March 2010 For the year ending 31 March 2010, an operating cash flow Director As at 1 April 2009 As at 1 April 2008 metric will be introduced as a secondary performance criterion 1 Iain Ferguson 726,000 726,000 to supplement the existing PBTEA metric, weighted 75% Tim Lodge 375,000 PBTEA, 25% cash flow.
Reflecting current business objectives, this emphasises the ongoing importance of cash 1.
As announced on 19 May 2009, Iain Ferguson will be leaving the Group flow management, and will be reviewed at the end of the year.
Before any bonus becomes payable under the cash flow metric, at least threshold PBTEA performance must be Benefits and other allowances achieved.
Consistent with the treatment of PBTEA, the cash Benefits comprise principally a company car or a cash flow numbers will be restated on the basis of exchange rates allowance in lieu: health insurance: and premiums paid on used for the Groups annual operating plan.
These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 85 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 12 6 09 16:48 Page 86 Directors remuneration report Long-term incentive arrangements of the potential award, calculated according to the degree The Committee believes that performance-based long-term of satisfaction of the performance condition and the length incentive plans LTIPs closely align executive directors and of time elapsed.
In the event of a change of control in the senior executives interests with those of shareholders and additional one-year retention period PSP awards granted in are therefore an important component of the overall package.
2003-2008, participants will receive the full number of shares which vest on satisfaction of the performance condition.
If the During the year ended 31 March 2009, the Company performance condition is not satisfied, participants will not operated two LTIPs, the Tate & Lyle 2003 PSP and the receive any shares.
i 2003 to 2008 awards Between August 2000 and June 2004, options were granted For awards made from 2003 to 2008, performance is under the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 measured by comparing the TSR defined as share price Scheme to executive directors and other senior employees.
growth plus reinvested dividends of Tate & Lyle relative to In June 2005, the Committee decided to suspend granting a comparator group of companies.
All share prices for the options under the 2000 Scheme.
While the Committee purpose of the TSR calculation are based on a six-month retains the discretion to make option grants in the future in average.
The Committee chose relative TSR for the PSP exceptional circumstances for example, in hiring packages, since it closely aligns executives interests with those of there is no current intention to make use of this discretionary shareholders, being an objective measure of the value power.
No options have been granted under the 2000 created for shareholders.
The comparator group consists Scheme since it was suspended and the authority to grant of the companies occupying positions 50 to 130 of the FTSE options under this Scheme will expire in August 2010. rankings at the beginning of the relevant performance period.
The Committee considered this to be appropriate given the Performance Share Plan Companys position in the FTSE at the time of each grant.
The Shareholders approved the PSP at the AGM in July 2003.
Committee reviews the performance measurement metrics Executive directors and other selected senior executives are and the continued validity of the comparator group annually.
eligible to participate in the PSP at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards of shares under the PSP are not If, at the end of the measurement period, Tate & Lyle ranks in pensionable in any circumstances.
the upper quartile of the comparator group, participants in the PSP will be eligible to receive all of the shares conditionally Under the PSP, participants are awarded annually a awarded to them.
If the ranking is at the median level, 25% conditional right to receive a number of Tate & Lyle ordinary of the shares may be received.
No shares will be received shares in value up to a maximum of 175% of base salary.
For intermediate rankings is calculated by reference to the average of the daily closing between median and upper quartile, participants may prices of Tate & Lyle ordinary shares preceding the beginning receive a proportionate number of shares increasing on of the performance measurement period.
The average of the a straight-line basis.
daily closing prices is taken over six months for the awards made in 2003 to 2008 and over three months for the 2009 Details of the measurement of the performance condition for award.
The number of shares that a participant ultimately the PSP award made in June 2006 are set out on page 89. receives depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the ii 2009 award year of the award.
For awards to be granted in June 2009, the Committee has decided to introduce a second performance criterion: 50% TSR calculations are independently supplied by Kepler of a participants annual award will be subject to the Group Associates and reviewed by the Committee.
meeting targets for adjusted diluted earnings per share Irrespective of Tate & Lyles TSR, before any shares become EPS from total operations.
The other 50% of the award eligible for release, the Committee must be satisfied that this will be subject to the same relative TSR performance used is justified by the underlying financial performance of the in previous years as explained above, although the TSR Group over the measurement period.
There is no retesting calculation has been changed for the 2009 award from being of the performance conditions.
based on a six-month average period as used for the awards made in 2003 to 2008 to a three-month average period in line At the end of the three-year measurement period, the with best practice.
The vesting scale is shown below.
conditional award is converted into a deferred right to acquire the appropriate number of shares.
For awards made between PSP vesting schedule TSR measure 2003 and 2008, there is a one-year retention period so shares arising from those awards will not be released to the 50% participant for one further year other than in the specific circumstances set out in the rules of the PSP.
As approved by 37.5% shareholders at the 2005 AGM, for awards made since 2005, participants will benefit from payments in lieu of dividends during the retention period on those shares which have 25% already vested.
If a participant resigns during the one-year retention period, the deferred right to acquire the appropriate 12.5% number of shares will lapse.
Following the executive remuneration review, the Committee removed the one-year retention period in line with market practice.
0% Median Upper In the event of a change of control of the Company in the quartile first year of the performance period, participants will receive no shares.
However, in the event of a change of control in the second or third year, participants will receive a proportion 86 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 Percentage of shares vesting 0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 12 6 09 16:48 Page 87 Directors remuneration report The Committee considers that the use of EPS alongside Dilution relative TSR creates a balance between two commonly used To satisfy options granted under the 1992 Executive Share internal and external metrics, both being relevant measures Option Scheme closed in July 2000 and the UK all-employee aligned to shareholder value.
Sharesave Scheme, the Company issues new shares.
To satisfy outstanding awards under the LTIPs, the Company For the 50% of the award relating to EPS performance to vest, uses either Treasury shares or shares that have been the compound annual growth rate CAGR of the Companys purchased by the Trustees of the Tate & Lyle Employee EPS over the three-year performance measurement period Benefit Trust.
must exceed the targets according to the vesting schedule shown in the table below: In the ten-year period to 31 March 2009, awards made under the executive schemes represented 1.8% of the Companys Annual CAGR of EPS during issued ordinary share capital 2008 2.0%, leaving available the performance period Percentage of total annual award which vests dilution headroom of 3.2% 2008 3.0%.
Awards made under all share schemes represented 3.1% of the Companys Below 5% 0% issued ordinary share capital 2008 3.6% leaving available 5% 12.5% dilution headroom of 6.9% 2008 6.4%.
Between 5% and 15% On a straight line basis between 12.5% and 50% Executive shareholding policy 15% or more 50% To align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, executive directors are expected to build and Deferred Bonus Share Plan maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent to their Shareholders approved the DBSP at the AGM in July 2005. base salary.
Executive directors who have not met their target However, as part of the executive remuneration review carried shareholding are expected to retain a significant proportion of out in 2008, the Committee concluded that the operation of shares acquired through LTIPs in order to meet their target.
the DBSP should be suspended.
The Committee believes that this will help to streamline the total remuneration package, and Pensions that the existing PSP, along with the executive shareholding Policy policy, sufficiently aligns the interests of the executives with Retirement benefits, in the form of pension and or lump sums, those of the shareholders.
should reflect local market practice at median levels, and are provided through tax-approved schemes, where possible Under the DBSP, executives had the opportunity to defer covering executives in the country and business sector in up to 50% of their annual cash bonus after deduction of tax, which they perform their principal duties.
national insurance or other social security payments and invest the amount deferred in the Companys shares.
The Groups largest pension scheme is the UK-based Subject to the satisfaction of employment conditions for Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme Group Scheme, awards made prior to 2008 and a performance condition a defined benefit arrangement.
The Company closed over the performance period, participants receive awards of the Group Scheme to new entrants from 1 April 2002, matching shares based on the number of shares which could and since then, new employees have been offered defined have been acquired from the gross bonus amount deferred contribution type pension provision through a Stakeholder by the participant lodged shares.
Awards of matching shares Plan, which is an insurance-based contract.
For the following are not pensionable.
Details of performance targets attached executive directors, both current and former, bonuses are to past awards made in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 are not pensionable.
Details of the measurement of the performance condition for the DBSP award in June 2006 are Individual executive directors set out on page 89.
Iain Ferguson is not a member of the Group Scheme for pension purposes and accordingly has accrued no pension Sharesave Scheme benefits under it.
He has been provided with life assurance This Scheme is open to all employees in the UK, including cover and has also participated in the Group Income executive directors.
No performance conditions are attached Protection Scheme, which applies to all UK employees who to options granted under the Scheme since it is an allare not otherwise covered for ill-health benefits under the employee scheme.
Options granted to participants are Group Scheme.
In accordance with Group policy he is paid normally set at a discount of 10% to the market value of a cash allowance calculated as a percentage of base salary, the shares at the time of the grant.
from which he makes his own pension arrangements.
Change of control and voting Tim Lodge is a member of the Group Scheme and is eligible Some of the Companys employee share plans include for a pension equal to two-thirds of his final pensionable restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject earnings highest basic salary in the last five completed tax to the plan.
All of the Companys share plans contain years payable from his normal retirement date.
The benefit provisions relating to a change of control as explained in more also includes a widows pension payable on his death and a detail above.
Outstanding awards and options would normally lump sum on death in service.
Once in payment, his pension vest and become exercisable on a change in control, subject and any subsequent widows pension is subject to increases to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
in line with the UK Retail Price Index RPI up to a maximum Where participants are the beneficial owners of the shares of 5%, with a minimum of 3%.
Although the capital value of under an employee share plan, but not the registered owner, his benefits were within the lifetime tax allowance at 5 April the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered 2006, his continued accrual will ultimately result in a tax charge owner at the direction of the participants.
under the new tax regime introduced on 6 April 2006.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 87 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
