0920 T&L Mid 80-96. qxd 16 6 09 18:06 Page 84 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Remuneration policy requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the the Act and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
remuneration of the executive directors in accordance with  LLP have audited the contents a policy determined by the Committee and agreed with the required by the Act the tabular information on pages 90 to Board.
For executive directors and senior executives, the 95.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at policy is to provide packages that attract, motivate and retain the Annual General Meeting AGM on 23 July 2009. high-calibre individuals to manage the Group successfully for the benefit of shareholders.
They are designed to: Remuneration Committee be competitive and commensurate with other UK-based The Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises the international businesses of similar size: independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the align the interests of executives and shareholders by Company.
The following served during the year: Evert Henkes rewarding growth in shareholder value: Committee Chairman, Elisabeth Airey, Richard Delbridge, reward above-average performance: Sir David Lees, Robert Walker and Dr Barry Zoumas.
ensure that performance-related elements form Sir Peter Gershon became a member of the Committee a significant proportion of the total remuneration on his appointment as a non-executive director and package: and Chairman-elect on 1 February 2009. take into account local country practice.
The Chief Executive, Human Resources Director PLC, It is intended that this policy will continue during the year Group Compensation Manager and Company Secretary and ending 31 March 2010.
General Counsel, who acts as Secretary to the Committee, are normally invited to attend meetings, although not when Review of executive remuneration their own remuneration is discussed.
Each year, with the help of its independent remuneration The Committee met 11 times during the year.
Individual adviser, the Committee reviews the appropriateness of members attendance records at meetings during the year executive remuneration arrangements.
During the year ended are given in the table on page 63.
31 March 2009 the Committee undertook a comprehensive review to ensure that arrangements for executive directors The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on and others were fit for purpose and reflected both the www.
com, are reviewed annually to ensure they evolving strategic objectives and business needs of the Group reflect best practice.
and changing competitive market trends and best practice.
The Committee reviews its work and effectiveness each year The main conclusions were: and reports any recommendations to the Board.
The 2009 the overall approach to remuneration was generally well review concluded that the Committee had fulfilled its role and aligned to Company performance and shareholder value: responsibilities appropriately.
for some executive roles, the levels of annual bonus or long-term incentive opportunity were below the relevant The Committee determines the individual remuneration market median, but the Committee concluded that for the packages of each executive director and other members of executive directors these should, for the time being, the Group Executive Committee see page 62.
This includes remain unchanged: base salary, benefits and other allowances, bonus, long-term the annual bonus for division Presidents should give due incentives and terms of employment, including those upon regard to the performance of their respective divisions: which service may be terminated.
Additionally, the Committee for the PSP, an earnings per share performance measure approves the base salary, benefits and long-term incentives of should be applied alongside the existing relative total certain other senior executives.
In consultation with the Chief shareholder return TSR metric: and Executive, the Committee also determines the Chairmans to streamline the total remuneration package, the DBSP remuneration.
The Chairman does not participate in should be suspended.
discussions or decisions relating to his own remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for the long-term incentive The changes to remuneration policy are explained in more plans LTIPs operated by the Company.
detail in the following sections.
To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices remain Remuneration package competitive, the Committee receives advice from independent Composition remuneration consultants.
During the year, the Committee The current remuneration package for executive directors reappointed Jeremy Orbell of Hewitt New Bridge Street consists of base salary, benefits and other allowances, Hewitt to act as its principal adviser.
This appointment was in annual bonus, long-term incentives and pension.
The accordance with the Committees policy whereby an individual Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion consultant appointed to advise the Committee on the of the total package is performance-related, at both target remuneration of executive directors and certain other senior and stretch levels.
executives shall not also advise Group management on the remuneration of any other executives in the Group.
The relative proportions of the Chief Executives and the In addition to market remuneration data provided by Hewitt, Group Finance Directors remuneration, when valued at both the Committee gets data from a Towers Perrin survey, and target and stretch performance levels on the basis of the Total Shareholder Return performance data and ranking award value of the long-term incentives which they would information for the Performance Share Plan PSP and normally be granted but excluding post-retirement benefits Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP from Kepler Associates.
and allowances paid in lieu of pensions, are shown in the Linklaters provides general legal advice on remuneration charts on the page opposite.
Hewitt, Towers Perrin and Kepler Associates provided no other services to the Group.
Linklaters gave legal advice on a range of matters.
