0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:25 Page 14 What we do Thr Through our pr ough our production facilitie oduction facilities ar s around the ound the world world w we tur e turn ra n raw materials cor w materials corn or cane n or cane sugar into quality sugar into quality ingr ingredient edients used by millions of people every day s used by millions of people every day..
Sustainable sourcing Creating volume Ensuring we have a long-term, To create the hundreds of quality reliable supply of corn and cane ingredients our customers want, we sugar for our plants is essential.
begin by processing large volumes This involves developing long-term, of raw materials from which we mutually beneficial relationships create basic products that are either Sustainable sourcing Creating volume with growers, farmers and other sold on or used as the starting point commercial partners to secure for developing speciality ingredients Ensuring we have a long-term, To create the hundreds of quality supply: understanding commodity and branded goods.
Creating this reliable supply of corn and cane ingredients our customers want, we markets: and hedging costs volume and operating large-scale, sugar for our plants is essential.
begin by processing large volumes where feasible.
efficient plants, allows us to keep This involves developing long-term, of raw materials from which we unit costs low across the business.
mutually beneficial relationships create basic products that are either with growers, farmers and other sold on or used as the starting point commercial partners to secure for developing speciality ingredients supply: understanding commodity and branded goods.
Creating this markets: and hedging costs volume and operating large-scale, where feasible.
efficient plants, allow us to keep unit costs low across the business.
14 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 0920 T&L Front 01-59. qxd 12 6 09 16:26 Page 15 Going to market Adding value We provide customers in four key markets with quality services and Rapidly changing lifestyles are ingredients made from corn or cane causing consumers to demand sugar, which impart functionality that more from the products they buy is vital for our customers products.
Preserving value be they good food on-the-go or Generating returns and growing our natural cosmetics.
Our expertise business requires carefully managing Generating optimal returns from in carbohydrate processing and the product mix.
This involves large-scale commodity manufacturing blending, specialist R&D knowledge maintaining a high-volume, low-cost requires firm cost and risk control.
and insights into the market help commodity base to help produce This involves careful management of us develop ingredients that add our higher margin, value added any commodity exposure: negotiating taste, nutrition and increased ingredients and services.
the right price for our ingredients: and functionality to our customers providing our customers with quality products.
products, within specification, on time, every time.
People External environment and risk management Running a diverse business like Tate & Lyle, which develops, Every business needs to be responsive manufactures and sells a wide to its competitive and regulatory variety of products and services environments.
Understanding the to customers in different markets issues that could have an impact across the world, relies on a team on our business is vital for good risk of highly skilled, motivated people management and long-term from a wide range of disciplines.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2009 15 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
