qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 7 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 7 Business Review Governance Statements Our Strategy Vision and Goal Taylor Wimpey plc is a focused homebuilding company with operations in the UK, North America, Spain and Gibraltar.
We aim to be the homebuilder of choice for customers, employees, shareholders and communities.
Our Group Strategy A combination of the actions taken within the business over the last 18 months and our improved nancing position now allows us to shift our focus to creating value by returning to profitability on existing and future sites.
Long term objectives Short term priorities Provide growth in earnings per share, in light of market conditions Return the Group to profitability following the recent downturns in both of our main markets through: Deliver a return on capital employed above the level of our cost of funding Focusing on sales price increases rather than volume growth Return the Group to an investment grade credit rating Continued focus on build cost reduction Attract and retain the highest calibre of employees and strive Maintaining tight control on overhead costs to be a company that people want to work for Deliver value from our existing landbank Continue to generate cash from operations through reduced level of investment in land and work in progress spend Maximise the potential of our employees through training and development programmes Deliver operating cash flows in excess of the levels set out within our financial covenants Our Group Key Performance Indicators at a glance The following key financial and non-financial KPIs are the most appropriate basis on which to measure the Groups current performance: Adjusted loss Return on average Operating cash flow covenant Employee turnover per share capital employed 4.3 p 1.5% 457m inow 6% for 2009 for 2009 for 2009 for 2009 7.2p loss for 2008 2.6% for 2008 Target: 51m outow 16% for 2008 For more information see page 9 Risk Corporate Responsibility The following key risks have the greatest potential Our corporate responsibility underpins impact on the Groups strategy: the way we do business Compliance with financial and operational covenants We have a duty to take social, environmental, ethical and economic factors into account when conducting our business and tackling Economic and market environment global imperatives such as sustainable development and Land purchasing climate change.
Government regulations For more information For more information see pages 11 to 12 see pages 25 to 27 www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 8 8 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives Review continued Strengthening our financial position In North America, affordability is at record We reached agreement with all of our debt highs in our US markets and the number providers to amend our debt facilities in of months of supply of both new and April 2009.
Whilst this agreement included existing homes continues to reduce.
some additional costs, it removed the Prices are steady, with the period of uncertainty regarding the Groups financial market stability now approaching 12 position and provides us with sufficient months.
Although foreclosures remain facilities to trade through the market a potential issue, they have not had an downturn.
Although we were not required incremental impact in recent months.
to raise new equity under the terms of the The robust economic conditions in our amended debt facilities, it did allow for Canadian markets are persisting and this is the terms to be adjusted to the Groups reected in a stronger trading environment.
advantage in the event of a successful Against this backdrop of improving equity raise.
Chris Rickard provides more conditions in our main markets, the detail on these amendments in his Group overriding priority for the business Financial Review.
remains building on our strong base For more information to take advantage of the opportunities see page 30 that stabilisation and future market upturns will provide.
After extremely volatile stock market conditions during 2008 and in the early Construction activities months of 2009, stock market conditions We are now a focused homebuilder, were more favourable in the second having completed the last stage of our quarter and a rise in the Groups share exit from Construction with the sale of price following the announcement of our our construction businesses in Ghana agreement to amend our debt facilities on 21 April 2009. provided an opportunity to launch an equity raise.
It was pleasing to be able to People conclude a successful Placing and Open Despite the improvements seen during Offer so quickly after the agreement to 2009, our employees have continued to amend our debt facilities, with the new face considerable challenges as a result shares starting to trade on the London of the difficult market conditions being Stock Exchange on 1 June 2009. experienced across the Group.
Moving forward I have been very impressed by the way Having established a secure capital that our employees have responded structure, the Group is now focused on positively to these challenges and would delivering added value over the medium like to express my thanks for their ongoing and longer term and taking advantage of commitment and hard work.
I am proud opportunities as market conditions allow.
of the quality of the teams that we have in our businesses and look forward to Opportunities for future growth In the UK, the structural undersupply seeing them deliver on the opportunities of new housing has been exacerbated by that will arise as our markets recover.
Industry volumes dropped Against this backdrop of sharply to 106,894 homes in 2008 and Pensions improving conditions in this has fallen further in 2009 to 88,100 We are in consultation regarding the source: National House-Building Council.
our main markets, the cessation of the dened benefit accrual in These numbers fall dramatically short of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme overriding priority for the latest forecast for household and are also reviewing a package of other formations of 252,000 per annum for the business remains proposals to reduce risk and the volatility England alone.
Recent months have seen of the deficit.
building on our strong an improvement in the number of new starts, but this position of undersupply For more information base to take advantage see page 31 is unlikely to change signicantly in the of the opportunities short term.
The underlying demand for new housing remains strong, but many that stabilisation and of those looking to buy homes remain unable to obtain an appropriate mortgage.
future market upturns When mortgage availability increases will provide.
and consumer confidence returns, we will see an even greater imbalance between demand and supply, creating the potential for a significant recovery in house prices in the future.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p06-12 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 9 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 9 Business Review Governance Statements Given the significant changes in our operating environment during Our Group Key the economic downturn and the changes to our financial covenants, Performance Indicators we have reviewed our suite of KPIs during 2009.
We believe that the KPIs below are the most appropriate basis on which to measure our current performance.
Adjusted loss Return on average Operating cash flow Employee turnover earnings per share capital employed covenant Objective Objective Objective Objective We seek to provide growth We aim to deliver a return on To deliver operating cash ows We endeavour to attract in earnings per share in light capital employed above the in excess of the levels set out and retain the highest calibre of market conditions.
level of our cost of funding.
of employees and strive to be a company that people want to work for.
Denition Denition Denition Denition The basic earnings per share profit on ordinary activities The cash generated by The number of employees from continuing operations before finance costs, operations as reported in the leaving the Group excluding based upon the profit exceptional items and Groups financial statements, redundancies expressed as attributable to ordinary amortisation of brands but adjusted for pensions, taxes a percentage of the average shareholders before including share of results of and other items as dened number of employees across exceptional items divided joint ventures, divided by the in the Groups nancing the Group during the year.
by the average number of average of opening and closing documentation.
The Canadian shares in issue during the year.
business is excluded for covenant purposes.
Why is it key to our strategy?
The generation of earnings Building homes is a capitalThe Group must meet its Having high quality teams in is essential to deliver share intensive business due to the financial covenants in order place is essential to delivering price growth and dividends need to fund our landbank, to retain access to its debt high quality homes, that our to shareholders and to fund so it is essential to ensure funding.
Following the Placing customers want to live in, future growth in the business.
that this capital is used and Open Offer, the operating on time and to budget.
This measure is also commonly as effectively as possible.
cash ow covenant is the most used by stock market analysts onerous of the Groups three in assessing the value financial covenants.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 08:38 Page 10 10 Directors Report: Business Review Group Chief Executives Review continued Corporate responsibility Strong landbanks in both the UK and Corporate responsibility is an integral North America mean that we can continue part of corporate governance.
We remain to be selective about new land purchases.
committed to being a responsible In the UK, we have approved new land company and to playing our part in investments of c4,000 new plots since building increasingly sustainable homes mid-2009.
These plots will deliver and communities.
We also believe that a completions at or above normal industry positive approach to corporate responsibility margins and accelerate our return to full makes sound commercial sense.
We remain concerned in the UK about the availability of land coming For more information Visit our Web site through a very complex and convoluted see pages 25 to 27 www.
During 2009 we have Outlook added new plots to our landbank in North Having established a secure capital America, reecting the high quality of structure during 2009, Taylor Wimpey is opportunities that became available.
well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that an upturn will provide.
Trading in the UK has continued to be encouraging during the first two months Pete Redfern of 2010, with the improved conditions Group Chief Executive seen in 2009 still in evidence.
Supply remains constrained and the restrictions on mortgage availability, whilst still having an impact on customers ability to fund new home purchases, are gradually easing.
In North America, the stability seen in the US housing market during the majority of 2009 has continued into the early months of 2010.
Affordability levels remain at record highs and suggest that there is scope for house price rises once the wider economic environment stabilises.
In addition, the US Governments first time buyer tax credit is likely to continue to support the market during the key spring selling season.
Market conditions in Canada remain robust.
We are continuing to improve returns from our existing landbank through a Principal risks and uncertainties combination of replans, renegotiation of existing planning commitments and redesign of product types.
In the UK, As with any business, we expect the first completions from Taylor Wimpey faces our new product range during 2010 and we are targeting further build cost a number of risks and reduction.
In addition, the strength of uncertainties in the our order books gives us a greater ability to reduce the level of incentives on offer course of its day to in 2010. day operations.
By effectively identifying and managing these risks, we are able to improve our returns, thereby adding value for shareholders.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
