Chris Rickard Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Appointed as a Director and to the post Appointed as a Director and to the post of Group Appointed as a Director and to the post of Group of Chairman in July 2003, Norman chairs the Chief Executive in July 2007 following the merger Finance Director in October 2008, Chris qualied Nomination Committee and is a member of the with George Wimpey Plc, Pete is a member of as an accountant and was an Audit Manager with Corporate Responsibility Committee.
His current the Nomination and Corporate Responsibility PwC, leaving in 1986 to work in industry.
He has appointments include the Chairmanship of IMI plc Committees.
In addition he has full day to day extensive experience of working in the capital and of the Board of Governors of the University operational responsibility for the UK Housing division.
intensive manufacturing and services industries, of Manchester.
Prior to the merger he was Group Chief Executive having previously held the position of Group Finance of George Wimpey Plc and before that successively Director at VT Group plc, Weir Group plc, Meggitt held the posts of Finance Director and Chief plc and more recently at Whatman Group plc.
Executive of George Wimpeys UK Housing business.
Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde President and CEO of Taylor Morrison Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Appointed as a Director on 5 August 2009, Appointed as a Non Executive Director in Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2007, Sheryl has over 20 years experience of the Brenda is a member of the Remuneration, Nomination November 2002, Andrew, a Chartered Accountant, US housing market which includes senior regional is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Corporate and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
She is positions with Pulte, Blackhawk Corporation and, a member of the House of Lords and is active in Responsibility Committees.
He is a non executive until the merger, with Morrison Homes.
Shortly after director of Premier Farnell plc and Creston plc.
a number of public areas, including the House the merger she was appointed as President and of Lords Appointments Commission.
Brenda Andrew was formerly Group Finance Director of Chief Executive officer of Taylor Morrison with Hanson, the Anglo-American diversied industrial is Chairman of the New Covent Garden Market executive responsibility for the US and Canadian Authority, a Partnership Director of National Air group, until it demerged.
Sheryl is a member of the Corporate Group Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the Trafc Services and a non executive director Responsibility Committee.
Brenda was a non international building materials company, and he was also a non executive director of BPB plc.
executive director of George Wimpey Plc prior to its merger with Taylor Woodrow.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p32-33 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:11 Page 33 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 33 Business Review Governance Statements 07 08 09 10 11 07.
James Jordan Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2001, Appointed as a Non Executive Director in July 2007, Katherine is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Tony is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed in July 2007.
James, a solicitor, is the Taylor Wimpey plc Group Company Secretary Committee and a member of the Remuneration and a member of the Audit and Nomination and Nomination Committees.
He was previously a director of and General Counsel.
Previously he held the same position with George Wimpey Plc following his considerable experience as a financial analyst in Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of the media sector.
She is a non executive director Tomkins Corp. USA and was a non executive appointment in February 2002. of St. Modwen Properties PLC and was formerly director of George Wimpey Plc prior to its merger Chairman of Shed Media plc and a non executive with Taylor Woodrow.
He is a non executive director director of the Ordnance Survey.
of Laird Plc, Spectris Plc and e2v Technologies plc.
David Williams Audit Committee Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Current members: Rob Rowley Committee Chairman, and Senior Independent Director Andrew Dougal, Anthony Reading and David Williams.
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 January 2010, Rob is Chairman of the Audit Appointed a Non Executive Director in July 2007, Corporate Responsibility Committee Current members: Katherine Innes Ker Committee David is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Committee and a member of the Remuneration Chairman, Norman Askew, Brenda Dean, and Nomination Committees.
He was previously a Nomination Committees and was a non executive Andrew Dougal, Sheryl Palmer and Pete Redfern.
director of George Wimpey Plc prior to its merger director of Reuters Plc, deputy chairman of Cable and Wireless plc and a non executive director of with Taylor Woodrow.
He was Finance Director of Nomination Committee Current members: Norman Askew Committee Bunzl plc until January 2006.
David is a non Prudential plc and Taylor Nelson Sofres plc.
He is Chairman, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, a non executive director and Chairman of the Audit executive director of DP World Limited a Dubai Katherine Innes Ker, Anthony Reading, Pete Redfern, quoted company, Meggitt PLC and Tullow Oil plc.
Committee of both Liberty International plc and Rob Rowley and David Williams.
He has recently been appointed as joint chairman Remuneration Committee of the Mondi Group prior to which he was a non Current members: Anthony Reading Committee executive director of Mondi PLC and Mondi Limited Chairman, Brenda Dean, Katherine Innes Ker, a Republic of South Africa quoted company.
Rob Rowley and David Williams.
David has indicated that he will stand down from the Board on 31 March 2010. www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 34 34 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report Independent Non Executive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 32 and 33.
Changes in the Board composition since 31 December 2008 are set out on page 51.
For more information see pages 32 to 33 and page 51 During the early part of 2009, as would be expected, the Board met frequently in concluding the negotiations that took place with regard to the amendment of its debt facilities and the subsequent raising of additional equity through the Placing and Open Offer which was approved by shareholders at the General Meeting on Norman Askew 27 May 2009.
Accordingly, the Board met Chairman on 14 occasions during the year including nine meetings in the first half of the year.
Details of the attendance of each Director Board Structure at a glance are set out in the table on page 36.
For more information see page 36 Taylor Wimpey plc Board It is Board policy that where a Director misses a Board or Committee meeting, the Chairman and or the Group Company Secretary will, as soon as possible, Corporate brief the Director fully on the business Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Committee Committee Committee transacted and on any decisions that Committee have been taken.
In addition, the views of the Director are sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed to it by Corporate governance statement During the year, the Board continued the Chairman and or the Secretary The Board is fully committed to high to apply the enhanced governance and as appropriate.
standards of corporate governance and control environment introduced during The Board discharges its responsibilities 2008 in order to maintain the integrity corporate responsibility throughout the by providing strategic and entrepreneurial of the business during the challenging Group.
The Board supports the principles leadership of the Company, within a market conditions.
of corporate governance contained in the framework of prudent and effective 2008 edition of the Combined Code on The Directors have monitored the controls, which enables risk to be assessed Corporate Governance which is appended FRCs review of the Combined Code and managed.
It sets the Companys to the Listing Rules of the Financial to be re-named The UK Corporate strategic aims, ensures that the necessary Services Authority the Combined Code, Governance Code and have made financial and human resources are in place as supplemented by the Disclosure and preparations to ensure the Company for the Company to meet its objectives Transparency Rules, which set out the continues to comply with its revised and reviews management performance.
governance rules which apply to all UK provisions, which are expected to be It also defines the Companys values and companies which are listed on the published in April or May 2010 and to standards and ensures that its obligations London Stock Exchange.
apply to accounting periods beginning to its shareholders and other stakeholders on or after 29 June 2010.
This Report on Corporate Governance are clearly understood and met.
together with the Remuneration Report The following documents have been Statement of compliance on pages 41 to 50 are intended to explain adopted by the Board: For the year ended 31 December 2009, how the Company has applied the the Company complied with all the Schedule of matters specifically reserved principles of the Combined Code provisions of the Combined Code for the decision of the Board: and provide an insight into how including the Principles set out in the Board and management run the Board policies covering operational Section 1, and with the provisions of business for the benefit of shareholders.
matters, compliance and stakeholder the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Chairmans Statement and the Group policies: and on Audit Committees and Corporate Chief Executives Review seek to present Governance Statements DTR 7.
Terms of Reference of the Board a balanced assessment of the Companys Committees: Audit, Corporate position and prospects.
The Board and its Committees Responsibility, Nomination and For more information As at the date of this Report the Board Remuneration, which outline their see page 41 to 50 consists of ten Directors: the Chairman, objectives and responsibilities three Executive Directors and six and which define a programme Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p34-40 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 35 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 35 Business Review Governance Statements of activities to support the discharge followed in the recent appointment of shareholders at the next Annual General of those responsibilities.
Rob Rowley as a Non Executive Director.
The Board has reviewed and re-afrmed that it considers all of the All Directors have access to the advice The Nomination Committee also guides Non Executive Directors to be independent and services of the Group Company the Board in arranging the orderly in character and judgement and that there Secretary and General Counsel.
The succession for appointments to are no relationships which could affect the Board and in respect of senior Board has an established procedure the Directors judgement.
The work of each of whereby Directors may take independent at the time of his appointment, met the the Board Committees is described professional advice at the Companys independence criteria as set out in the in this Report.
expense where they judge it necessary Combined Code.
to do so in order to discharge their The Board has an adopted framework responsibilities as Directors.
of delegated financial, commercial and Performance evaluation of the Board, operational authorities, which define The Board took detailed advice during the its Committees and other functions the scope and powers of the year both with regard to the amendment In line with the Combined Code a detailed Group Chief Executive and of of its debt facilities and the raising of evaluation of the Board, its Committees operational management.
additional equity through the Placing and of each Director takes place annually.
and Open Offer in the first half of 2009.
Further details of the evaluation process The roles and responsibilities of the Advice was provided in connection with are set out on page 36.
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive the amendment of its debt facilities, by have been reviewed by the Board and, in For more information specialist restructuring advisers N M see page 36 line with the Combined Code, are clearly Rothschild & Sons Limited Rothschild dened and set out in writing.
and the Companys legal advisers Also in line with the current requirements of The Board will continue to review Slaughter and May Slaughter with the Combined Code a rigorous evaluation the governance framework including regard to UK matters and by Davis Polk & takes place with regard to Non Executive delegated financial, commercial and Wardwell, LLP Davis Polk with regard to Directors who have served in excess of operational authorities to ensure that US matters.
Representatives of Rothschild six years namely Brenda Dean, Andrew they remain appropriate and meet the and Slaughter attended the relevant part Dougal, Katherine Innes Ker and David requirements of the Group going forward.
of almost every meeting of the Board up Williams.
As reported last year, following to the conclusion of the debt renegotiation The Board also undertakes a regular consultation with shareholders time spent on 30 April 2009 to advise the Board on review of the interests of each Director on the board of George Wimpey Plc key legal issues relating to the status of outside of the Company.
The Board is pre-merger by any Non Executive Director the project.
The advice also included satisfied that the commitments of each is taken into account when calculating the specialist advice to the Board as a Director do not detract from the extent length of time of the Non Executive Director whole and to Directors individually or quality of time which they are able appointment.
Following the rigorous as to their responsibilities.
evaluation the Board was entirely satisfied with their respective performance and Advice was also provided during the year The Companies Act 2006 the Act contribution as Non Executive Directors to the Board by J. P. Morgan Cazenove introduced a requirement for the Company in addition to their ongoing independence Limited as sponsor and financial adviser, to maintain a Register of Potential J. P. Morgan Securities Limited as of character and judgement particularly Conicts of Interest whereby Directors underwriter, Slaughter UK legal advice with regard to Brenda Dean, Andrew disclose any change in their Directorships and Davis Polk US legal advice in Dougal, Katherine Innes Ker and David or other interests in other companies connection with the Placing and Open Williams.
The Board awaits the outcome and organisations.
In accordance with Offer concluded on 1 June 2009.
As part this requirement, the Company has of the Consultation On The Revised UK of its annual budget review process the established and maintains such a register.
Corporate Governance Code published Board receives a detailed presentation in December 2009 with regard to directors Whenever any Director considers that from an external economic specialist who have served more than nine years.
he or she is, or may be, interested in on the UK, North American and Currently Non Executive Directors who any contract or arrangement to which general economy.
have served more than nine years are the Company is or may be a party, the required to seek annual re-election, Director gives due notice to the Board Board and Committee balance, however it is noted that this requirement in accordance with the Act and the independence and effectiveness may fall away if the consultation results in Companys Articles of Association It is the Companys policy that all directors having to face annual re-election.
In such cases, unless allowed appointments to the Board are made The new Code is due to be published in by the Articles, a Director with such an on merit and the Nomination Committee April or May 2010 and it is noted that it interest is not permitted to participate has a formal, rigorous and transparent is intended that it will apply to accounting in any discussions or decisions relating process against which objective criteria periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. to the contract or arrangement.
recommended by the Nomination Committee are used.
Typically the process As part of the evaluation, the Board During the three years up to and including of appointment, prior to the decision of took into account the requirement of the the 2010 Annual General Meeting, every the Board, will include the engagement Combined Code to consider refreshing Director will have sought re-election at of recruitment consultants, interviews with the Board from time to time and, in light least once.
Any Director appointed by members of the Board and the taking up the Board since the last Annual General of this, Rob Rowley was appointed of detailed references.
This process was Meeting will be subject to election by with effect from 1 January 2010. www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 36 36 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued In line with the Combined Code, a formal Director provided feedback direct to Taylor Wimpey plc Board annual evaluation of the performance the Chairman.
and effectiveness of the Board and its As part of the appraisal process the Committees and of individual Directors Chairman also met on a one to one was carried out.
The evaluation was basis with each Director.
In line with the carried out by the Chairman and the Combined Code, the Chairman also holds Group Company Secretary.
The process meetings with the Non Executive Directors consisted of a bespoke questionnaire without the Executive Directors present.
Chairman Norman Askew which was sent by the Group Company The Senior Independent Director also Number of meetings in 2009 14 Secretary to all Directors for completion.
holds and leads meetings with only The questionnaire focused on the Members Attendance the Non Executive Directors present.
performance of: the Board, the four Board Norman Askew Committees, the performance of each Internal Audit: A formal evaluation of Chairman 14 Director by way of self assessment plus the Internal Audit function was carried Pete Redfern a condential evaluation by the Chairman out by the Audit Committee which also Group Chief Executive 14 of each Director and the performance of took into account views from Executive Chris Rickard the Chairman.
This year, the evaluation Directors, senior management and the Group Finance Director 14 also specifically focused on a rigorous external auditors.
Sheryl Palmer assessment of each of the four Directors President & CEO of Taylor Morrison 4 External auditors: As previously reported who have served on the Board for more David Williams a comprehensive formal competitive than six years taking into account, where Senior Independent Director 13 tender process with regard to the carrying applicable, past service on the George Brenda Dean out of the external audit was conducted Wimpey Plc Board.
The Secretary Independent Non Executive Director 14 following the merger between Taylor Andrew Dougal collated all of the responses and Woodrow and George Wimpey and Independent Non Executive Director 14 produced a summary in respect resulted in Deloitte LLP being selected Katherine Innes Ker of each performance area.
as external auditors to the Company.
Independent Non Executive Director 13 The Chairman and the Secretary then The findings of this tender process Anthony Reading reviewed the summaries that had been are considered to remain valid.
Independent Non Executive Director 14 prepared in respect of the Board, each Accordingly, Deloitte LLP will be Rob Rowley Board Committee and each Director proposed for re-appointment as Independent Non Executive Director 0 # other than the Chairman and formally the Companys auditors at the Annual Mike Davies presented the findings to the Board on General Meeting.
The performance of Former Independent Non Executive Director 10 a non-attributable basis for discussion.
Deloitte is kept under regular review.
Appointed 05 08 2009 Following this, a set of actions was agreed David Williams will, as previously announced, step which were designed to increase further Information and down from the Board and as the Senior Independent Director SID on 31 March 2010 and a new SID will the overall effectiveness of the Board.
The Company has procedures whereby A number of points came out of the Appointed 01 01 2010 Directors including Non Executive performance evaluation designed to # Resigned 01 09 2009 Directors receive a formal induction.
increase the effectiveness of the Board This includes training and continuing which are being implemented during familiarisation about the Companys During the year, the Board appointed 2010.
Specic action items coming out business, operations and systems, Sheryl Palmer, who is the President & of the evaluation are that the Board will the principles underlying the discharge CEO of Taylor Morrison, as a Director devote additional time and focus with of their duties as Directors and wider of the Company.
regard to the Corporate Responsibility issues relating to the housing sector.
Committee and will consider having a In September 2009, having regard Board evaluation externally facilitated in All Directors visit Group operations on a to his other appointments including his appointment as Chairman of Manchester the near future.
The Board came to this regular basis, engaging with employees Airport Group, Mike Davies stood down latter conclusion without regard to the at all levels in order to foster and maintain from the Board.
likely requirements of the UK Corporate an understanding of the business.
Board Governance Code which will come into visits are arranged each year to operations The Board considers that its Directors force later this year.
in both the UK and elsewhere within the possess an appropriate balance of skills Group.
In October 2009 the Board visited and experience for the requirements of the The Non Executive Directors, led by the the Taylor Wimpey Oxfordshire Region and business.
The Board and its Committees Senior Independent Director, undertook spent two and a half days meeting staff, operate within a framework of scheduled the evaluation of the Chairmans holding its regular Board meeting and core meetings.
The evaluation was based undertaking site visits.
A similar Board held during the first half of the year, as the on the non-attributable summary prepared visit to the Taylor Morrison Northern Board continued its active measures to by the Secretary of the feedback from the California Region was undertaken in both address the challenges of the difficult Non Executive and Executive Directors.
February 2010. market conditions in the UK and the US, The summary was reviewed by the Non to oversee progress on the amendment The Group Company Secretary and Executive Directors in the absence of the of its debt facilities, and to conclude General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Chairman, following which David Williams the Placing and Open Offer.
Board and its Committees and he attends in his capacity as the Senior Independent all meetings.
It is policy that wherever Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p34-40 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 37 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 37 Business Review Governance Statements possible a formal agenda and written audit process, the financial reporting Audit Committee reports are issued to Directors in respect practices, the external audit process Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board of all Board and Committee meetings one and recommending to the Board whether week prior to the meeting in order to allow to re-appoint the external auditor.
It sufficient time for detailed review and ensures that the Board regularly assesses consideration beforehand.
Where a business risks, and their management Director is unable to attend a meeting and mitigation.
In doing so, the Committee of the Board or a Committee, he or she places reliance on regular reports from Chairman Rob Rowley will still receive the appropriate papers in executive management, Internal Audit and advance and is invited to communicate Number of meetings in 2009 3 external audit.
In monitoring the financial to the Chairman or Committee Chairman, reporting practices the Audit Committee Members Attendance or the Secretary any views on the matters reviewed accounting policies, areas of Rob Rowley appointed 01 01 2010 0 to be discussed.
In addition, the Director judgement, the going concern assumption Andrew Dougal 3 will receive a full brieng afterwards on the and compliance with accounting standards Anthony Reading 3 matters discussed and decisions taken.
and the requirements of the Combined David Williams 3 Formal minutes are prepared in respect Mike Davies resigned 01 09 2009 2 Code.
During the year the Committee of all Board and Committee meetings reviewed, prior to publication, the half year and are then circulated and submitted Objective and annual financial statements and other for approval at the next meeting.
To assist the Board in fullling its corporate major statements affecting the Group governance responsibilities relating to the Groups concerning price sensitive information.
internal control framework, financial reporting Board Committees and their work practices and external audit process.
Appointment of the auditors for Audit Committee and auditors non-audit services The Committee is chaired with effect from The Audit Committee has approved a 1 January 2010 by Rob Rowley.
Andrew policy on considering whether to employ Dougal stood down as Chairman of the the external auditors to provide services Committee on 1 August 2009 and was other than audit services, which is to succeeded by David Williams who, having require a competitive tender except in announced his forthcoming departure ordinarily undertaken by auditors for narrowly dened circumstances where the from the Group, stood down as Chairman companies involved in such projects.
Company considers that for condentiality, of the Committee at the end of 2009. past knowledge or other reasons, there All members of the Committee are The Audit Committee is satisfied that the is an advantage in using a single tender Independent Non Executive Directors carrying out of this work would not impair procurement procedure.
as required by the Combined Code.
the independence of the external auditors.
The Board has determined that Rob The Committee has determined that the Corporate Responsibility Committee Rowley, who currently chairs the Audit following assignments should not be The Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee at both Liberty International plc undertaken by the auditors: is chaired by Katherine Innes Ker and the and moneysupermarket.
com, has recent other members are Norman Askew, Pete Bookkeeping or other services and relevant financial experience as have Redfern, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal related to the accounting records the other members of the Committee.
and Sheryl Palmer with effect from David Williams will leave the Board or financial statements: 21 October 2009.
The Corporate and this Committee on 31 March 2010.
Internal audit outsourcing services: Responsibility Committee met on three The Chairman of the Company and occasions.
Details of the attendance other Non Executive Directors, the Group The provision of advice on large of each Director are set out in the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Information Technology systems: table on page 38.
Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Services connected with valuation, Controller and other senior executives The Companys corporate responsibility litigation support, legal, recruitment attend meetings of the Committee by practices outline its approach to the or remuneration.
Deloitte LLP is invited to attend challenge of sustainable development.
meetings of the Audit Committee.
The The Board is satisfied that this policy is Our policies and practices help the Committee also meets privately with conducive to the maintenance of auditor business to demonstrate high standards representatives from Deloitte at two independence and objectivity.
During the of governance, reduce risk and comply Committee meetings per annum and as year a significant amount of non-audit with current and future legislation.
and when required to discuss any matters related work was performed by the The Committee is responsible for which the auditors may wish to raise external auditors as a consequence of the recommending the Companys corporate without Executive Directors being present.
challenges faced by the Group.
Two major responsibility strategy, policies, reporting components of this work related to rstly, During the year the Audit Committee met advice and support in connection with the and performance monitoring to the Board.
on three occasions at each of which there amendment of the Companys debt The Committees remit includes ensuring was full attendance.
The meetings were facilities which concluded in April 2009 that the Companys corporate responsibility typically also attended by the other Non and secondly, advice in connection with strategy and activity are adequately Executive Directors.
the equity raising through the Placing and resourced, have appropriate standing The Committees remit includes reviewing Open Offer concluded on 1 June 2009. within the Company and are aligned to the the internal control framework, the internal In both cases, Deloitte performed work needs of the business.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 38 38 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued corporate responsibility as an integral part CR Committee Nomination Committee of good governance.
Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Full details of the Companys achievements and initiatives in these areas during 2009 and going forward are set out in Taylor Wimpeys Corporate Responsibility Report 2009, which is available in Chairman Katherine Innes Ker Chairman Norman Askew electronic form on the Groups Web site.
Number of meetings in 2009 3 Number of meetings in 2009 2 Visit our Web site www.
com  Members Attendance Members Attendance Katherine Innes Ker 3 Norman Askew 2 Nomination Committee Norman Askew 3 Brenda Dean 2 The Committee is chaired by Brenda Dean 3 Andrew Dougal 2 the Chairman of the Board and is Andrew Dougal 3 Katherine Innes Ker 2 comprised of a majority of Non Executive Sheryl Palmer appointed 21 10 2009 1 Anthony Reading 2 Directors as required by the Combined Pete Redfern 3 Pete Redfern 2 Code.
Its members are set out in the Rob Rowley appointed 01 01 2010 0 table opposite.
As set out earlier in this Objective David Williams 2 Report, the Committee has processes Mike Davies resigned 01 09 2009 1 To recommend to the Board the Companys in place with regard to the appointment Corporate Responsibility Strategy, policies, of new Directors to the Board in order reporting and performance monitoring.
Objective to ensure that appointments are made To ensure that there shall be a formal, rigorous on merit.
For the appointment of and transparent procedure for the appointment Non Executive Directors, the use of new Directors to the Board, its Committees and other senior ofces in the Company.
of recruitment consultants will usually be incorporated as part of the process.
The Nomination Committee is responsible the Combined Code.
During the year risk management.
This process is based for succession planning for the Board and the Remuneration Committee met principally on reviewing reports from senior management and assesses the on five occasions.
management to consider whether balance of the Boards composition.
significant risks are correctly identied, The Committee met on two occasions Internal control evaluated, managed and controlled as during the year and details of the The Board has applied Principle C. 2 part of the process of managing the attendance of each Director are of the Combined Code by establishing Groups operations and whether any set out in the table opposite.
a continuous process for identifying, significant weaknesses are promptly evaluating and managing the significant Remuneration Committee remedied or indicate a need for more risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly and remuneration extensive monitoring.
reviews its application of the Revised The Boards policy and approach to the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control Key elements of the system of internal setting of remuneration for Directors and to ensure the process of internal control, control are detailed below.
senior executives and the activities of the which has been in place from the start Remuneration Committee are described A Group-level review is carried out of the year to the date of approval of this in detail in the Directors Remuneration to identify the major risks facing the Report, is in accordance with Internal Report on pages 41 to 50.
The Committee Group and to develop and implement Control: the Revised Guidance for is constituted in accordance with the appropriate initiatives to manage those Directors on the Combined Code.
Combined Code and its members risks.
This process applies across The Board is responsible for the Groups are set out on page 39. the Group.
system of internal control and for For more information reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system Strategic risk reviews are carried out in see pages 41 to 50 and page 39 is designed to manage rather than each of the operating divisions to identify eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business risk, evaluate existing controls The Committee has monitored the business objectives, and can only provide and develop strategies to manage the developing initiatives for remuneration to reasonable and not absolute assurance risks that remain.
be more closely linked to risk management against material misstatement or loss.
in response to the downturn in the global Key operational and financial risks are In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the economy.
It considers that the Companys identied and assessed at the operating Combined Code, the Board regularly current remuneration practices and process level, while strategic risks are reviews the effectiveness of the Groups arrangements are satisfactory but will identied as a part of the business system of internal control and the continue to monitor the situation as and planning process.
These risk reviews progress made in embedding internal when additional guidance is issued.
control and risk management processes take account of the signicance of into the business.
The Boards monitoring environmental, social and governance The Committee is chaired by Anthony covers all controls, including financial, matters to the business of the Company.
Reading and all members are Independent operational and compliance controls and Non Executive Directors as required by Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p34-40 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 39 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 39 Business Review Governance Statements During the year the Company took advice comparison against budget and prior year, Remuneration Committee together with various treasury reports.
from Rothschild as its specialist debt Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Enhanced cash and debt reporting restructuring adviser and from its lead systems continue to assist in managing legal advisers.
the Group through the current market The Board oversees the risk and control difficulties and in meeting its renancing framework of the Group and the Group obligations.
Disputes that may give rise Chief Executive is responsible for to significant litigation or contractual Chairman Anthony Reading implementing any necessary claims are monitored quarterly by improvements with the support of the Number of meetings in 2009 5 the Board with updates provided Group Executive Committee.
In 2009 the at intervening meetings.
Members Attendance Executive Committee was expanded to Anthony Reading 5 The Group has clearly dened policies, include senior operational management Brenda Dean 5 processes and procedures governing all and now comprises the Executive Katherine Innes Ker 5 areas of the business which will continue Directors of the Company, the Group Rob Rowley appointed 01 01 2010 0 to be reviewed and rened in order to Company Secretary and General Counsel, David Williams 4 meet the requirements of the business the Group Financial Controller, the Mike Davies resigned 01 09 2009 3 and changing market circumstances.
Divisional Chairmen North and South and Dened authority limits continue to be Finance Director of the UK Housing Objective closely monitored in response to the Division and the Vice President, Chief To establish and maintain formal and transparent market downturn and to ensure we Financial officer, North America of Taylor procedures for developing policy on executive remain in compliance with the terms of remuneration and for agreeing the remuneration Morrison, Inc.
The Group Chief Executive the Override Agreement, described earlier.
packages of individual directors and senior reports on the key elements arising from Areas of particular sensitivity, including executives and to monitor and report on them.
each Executive Committee meeting at the investment in land, remain subject to next Board Meeting.
The Board ensures Group scrutiny and work in progress that the Company has in place effective continues to be carefully controlled.
systems to manage and mitigate Any investment, acquisition or disposal significant risks.
At its December 2009 requires detailed appraisal and prior meeting the Board, following a detailed Such risks are identied and assessed approval by the Group and is subject for potential effect on the Companys review undertaken by the Group Executive to post-investment review procedures.
short and long term value, as well Committee of operations, companies and Investment decisions, projects, and as opportunities that may arise major departments, completed its annual tenders are subject to approval by the to enhance value.
assessment for the year to 31 December Board or the Group Chief Executive, 2009 of the key risks affecting the Group.
depending on the value and nature Throughout 2009 the Audit Committee The Audit Committee also assists the continued to assess the Groups risk of the investment or contract.
Board in discharging its review of management and the internal control There is a clearly identiable organisational responsibilities.
The key risks were framework, and reviewed business structure and a framework of delegated identied and agreed by the Board change issues and Internal Audit authority approved by the Board within together with processes in place for activities across the Group.
which individual responsibilities of senior their elimination or mitigation and actions During the first half of the year, the executives of Group companies are required to reduce the likelihood or impact Company substantially mitigated the identied and can be monitored.
These of each risk to the Company and the risks associated with its debt structure activities are reinforced through process Taylor Wimpey Group.
Details of the by reaching agreement with its creditors compliance and other audits conducted principal risks and uncertainties facing and raising equity capital.
On 7 April 2009 by Internal Audit.
the Group are set out on pages 11 and 12. the Company entered into an Override The Internal Audit function reviews the Agreement with its creditors: on 30 April For more information effectiveness and efficiency of the systems see pages 11 and 12 2009 the debt restructuring was concluded of internal control in place to safeguard the by agreement with the providers of the Management assets, to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or Companys major financial facilities.
On 1 The Group Chief Executive has mitigate risks and to monitor the activities June the Company concluded the Placing responsibility for preparing and reviewing of the Group in accomplishing established and Open Offer of 2.13 billion new shares.
strategic plans for the Group and its objectives.
Internal Audit reports are As set out on page 36 of this Corporate divisions and the annual budgets.
These provided to the Executive Directors, Governance Report, during 2009 the are subject to formal approval by the indicating improvements proposed or Board formally met 14 times with the Board.
Budgets are re-examined in made where appropriate, and summaries additional meetings convened in order to comparison with business forecasts of these reports are provided to the Board consider and evaluate the major projects throughout the year to ensure they are and the Audit Committee.
The Group relating to the amendment of its debt Chief Executive, Executive Committee sufciently robust to reect the possible facilities and the Placing and Open Offer members and senior management impact of changing economic of shares.
A more detailed review of the consider the reviews on a regular basis circumstances.
The Group Chief Executive principal risks and uncertainties facing the and are responsible for ensuring that and the Board conduct regular reviews of Group during the year and in the future, is improvements are made, where required.
set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties actual results and future projections with on pages 11 and 12. www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:12 Page 40 40 Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Head of Internal Audit has direct investors.
The presentation material On 1 June 2009 the Group successfully access to the Chairman of the Audit for these events is published on completed an equity Placing and Open Committee, the Chairman and the Group the Companys Web site.
Offer to raise 510.1 million, net of issue Chief Executive.
The transaction was executed such Visit our Web site recommendations and improvement that it created additional distributable www.
The proceeds All Directors receive formal reports processes ensure that such improvements of the equity raise have been used to and briengs during the year about the are implemented in a timely manner.
pay down debt and cancel associated Companys investor relations programme The annual employee performance facilities, thereby avoiding additional and receive detailed feedback through appraisal process is objective-based, finance charges.
surveys, direct contact and other means, with individual objectives cascaded down The Group has met all its interest and through which they are able to develop from the appropriate business objectives.
other payment obligations on time, and an understanding of the views of major Development reviews identify training needs after reviewing cash flow forecasts for shareholders about the Company.
to support achievement of objectives.
a period of not less than 12 months The Board encourages all shareholders from the date of signing the consolidated Whistleblowing to participate in the Annual General financial statements, the Directors are The Groups whistleblowing policy is Meeting which is attended by all Directors.
satisfied that, whilst the economic supported by a clear process that includes Shareholders attention is drawn to the and market conditions continue to an externally facilitated hotline through Notice of Meeting on page 105, which be challenging and not without risk, which employees of the Company may, in sets out details of new rights of the refinancing package as well as confidence, raise concerns about possible shareholders in connection with the notice the equity raised, is sufciently robust as improprieties in financial reporting, other of, and participation in, General Meetings to adequacy of both facility and covenant operational matters or inappropriate of the Company, introduced by the headroom to enable the Group to operate personal behaviours in the work place.
Companies Shareholders Rights within its terms for at least the next All whistleblowing cases are investigated Regulations 2009.
These apply for the first 12 months.
by the Head of Internal Audit, Group HR time to the forthcoming Annual General Director and or the Group Company Further details of the renancing are Meeting of the Company on 29 April 2010 Secretary.
Whistleblowing incidents and set out in the Group Financial Review on at which changes will also be proposed to their outcome are reported to the Audit pages 28 to 31 and in Note 1 on page 61 the Companys Articles of Association to Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing of this Annual Report.
give effect to the relevant provisions item on each Audit Committee agenda of the Companies Act 2006.
For more information which allows the Committee to regularly see pages 28 to 31 and page 61 Information about the Company, including review the adequacy of the policy in line full year and half year results and other with its requirements to do so under the major announcements, and additional Combined Code.
information about shareholders rights in connection with General Meetings of the Relations with shareholders Company, as referred to in the preceding The Board actively seeks and encourages paragraph, is published on the Companys engagement with major institutional Web site www.
shareholders and other stakeholders and has put in place arrangements designed Debt renancing and going concern to facilitate contact about business, The consolidated financial statements governance, remuneration and other have been prepared on a going concern issues.
This provides the opportunity for basis and on a historical cost basis except meetings with the Chairman, the Senior as otherwise stated in the Notes to the Independent Director as well as the Group Accounts on pages 61 to 94.
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other executives in order to establish For more information a mutual understanding of objectives.
see pages 61 to 94 The Company also operates a structured On 7 April 2009 the Group completed programme of investor relations, based the renegotiation of its debt with its banks on formal announcements and publications and private placement holders regarding covering the full year and half year results.
a revised covenant and nancing package There are associated briengs for the Override Agreement.
This resulted stockbroking analysts and investors, in the alignment of the maturity dates and the Company also arranged a visit of all the Groups debt to 3 July 2012: to a Taylor Wimpey development in a reduction in the revolving credit facility Andover, Hampshire during November and amendments to the margin and 2009.
The visit was hosted by the Group coupon rates on borrowings.
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, along with a number of representatives of the UK senior management team and was attended by 28 analysts and major Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p41-50 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 41 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 41 Business Review Governance Statements Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report Introduction Base salary 2009: no salary increases position and the expectations of all The Remuneration Committee were implemented for any Executive shareholders following the completion also referred to in this Report as the Director in 2009 and no increases of the Placing and Open Offer.
Committee has adopted the principles were made during 2008.
The Executive of good governance relating to Directors Directors together with the Group Part 1: Unaudited Information: remuneration as set out in the 2008 Company Secretary and General Remuneration Committee Combined Code on Corporate Governance Counsel have also each elected to The Remuneration Committee has clearly the Combined Code.
This Report has waive their increases for 2010: dened terms of reference which have been prepared in accordance with the been approved by the Board and are Short Term Incentive Arrangement Companies Act 2006 the Act, The available on the Companys Web site STIA : STIAs for 2009 were capped Large and Medium Sized Companies www.
The key at 75% of the normal maximum for and Group Accounts and Reports remit of the Committee is to recommend the Group Chief Executive and the Regulations 2008 and the Listing Rules to the Board the remuneration strategy Group Finance Director.
The deferral of the Financial Services Authority.
and framework for Executive Directors requirement of an element of the STIA It is a requirement that the Companys and senior management in line with the into shares in the Company for three auditors report to shareholders on certain Combined Code.
Within this framework years was retained but lowered from parts of this Report and state whether in the Committees main role and 50% to 25% to reect the reduced their opinion those parts of it have been responsibilities are to: STIA potential.
In addition, no element properly prepared in accordance with the of the STIA was based on personal Determine the remuneration, including above Regulations.
A clawback mechanism pension arrangements, of the Executive has been divided into separate sections was also introduced on the deferred Directors and the Group Company consisting of unaudited and audited element of the STIA to be applied in Secretary and General Counsel: information.
A resolution to approve this the event of a material misstatement Report will be proposed at the Annual of the Companys accounts: Monitor and make recommendations General Meeting of the Company on in respect of remuneration for the tier Temporary Short Term Synergy Incentive: 29 April 2010.
Details of the resolution of senior management one level below the purpose of this incentive was, and its status as an advisory vote are set that of the Board: principally, to reward a small number out on page 106 and page 110 respectively.
of executives for achieving substantial Approve annual and long term incentive This Report has been prepared by synergy savings arising out of the 2007 arrangements together with their targets the Remuneration Committee on behalf merger between Taylor Woodrow and and levels of awards: and of the Board.
Although the Incentive Determine the level of fees for the was approved by shareholders as part 2009 was a very challenging year for Chairman of the Board.
of the 2007 Remuneration Report it the Company as it sought to renegotiate was not implemented for either 2008 The Committee currently comprises five its financial covenants with various debt or for 2009.
The Incentive has now Independent Non Executive Directors.
This lengthy and complicated been cancelled without any payment Anthony Reading is the Committee process created some degree of uncertainty being made to any executive: Chairman and he chaired the Committee for the Company and its stakeholders throughout the year.
The other members pending the agreement of a revised set Non Executive Director Fees: no of the Committee are Katherine Innes Ker, of covenants on 30 April 2009.
In light increase in fees to Non Executive Brenda Dean and David Williams who of this, the Committee had to ensure Directors were made during the year were Committee members throughout that its remuneration policy and practices and no increases were made the year and Rob Rowley who was were appropriate having regard to both during 2008 : appointed as a member of the Committee the Companys circumstances and the Chairmans Fees: as reported last year, on 1 January 2010.
Mike Davies stood need to secure a solid financial platform the Chairman determined that in the down as a Director on 1 September 2009 for the benefit of all stakeholders in order light of the prevailing difficult market and David Williams will stand down on to then be able to focus on delivering conditions affecting the Company 31 March 2010.
Details of attendance value for shareholders over the medium at that time, his annual fees for 2009 at Remuneration Committee meetings term.
Following the agreement of the should be reduced from 270,000 per held during 2009, are set out in the revised set of financial covenants and the annum to 200,000 per annum: and table on page 39. implementation of the subsequent Placing and Open Offer, the Committee embarked Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP No Director is involved in any decisions on a consultation exercise with its major Awards: following the consultation about his her own specic remuneration.
shareholders and representative bodies exercise, the 2009 LTIP awards on remuneration for its Executive made to Executive Directors and Advice to the Company Directors, the outcome of which senior executives have an effective The Committee keeps itself fully informed is included in this Report.
performance period of four years on developments and best practice in the rather than the usual three year period.
eld of remuneration and it seeks advice As set out in more detail in this Report, The level of conditional award made to from external advisers when appropriate.
during the year, the Committee made a each participant was reduced by 10%.
The Committee appoints its own number of changes to its existing policy Performance targets were made more independent remuneration advisers and in order to reect the challenging market challenging to achieve and also made during the year, the Committee received conditions and these are summarised more appropriate to the Companys advice from Mercer Limited Mercer in in brief below: www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 42 42 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report continued its capacity as independent adviser to the Committee.
In November 2009 Proportion of fixed to performance based remuneration 2010 % Mercer was succeeded as adviser to the CEO Committee by Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS.
The Committee also received Group Finance Director legal advice from Slaughter and May.
HNBS provides no other services to the Company HNBS is a trading name of President and CEO North America Hewitt Associates Limited.
Separately, Mercer provided actuarial advice direct 0 20 40 60 80 100 to the Trustees of the George Wimpey Salary Annual Staff Pension Scheme.
On-Target Bonus and Long Term Incentives In line with recent best practice guidelines, the Committee intends to disclose details based remuneration for 2010.
Fixed specialist advice, as well as benchmarking of fees paid during 2010 to HNBS in next remuneration comprises base salary.
data, to the Committee based on relevant years Remuneration Report, which will Performance based remuneration peer groups.
In determining base salary reect a full years appointment.
comprises an annual short term cash positioning, the Committee considers incentive and a long term incentive plan.
market data from two peer groups In addition, the Company Chairman, Group The chart illustrates the mix of remuneration reecting sector and size based Chief Executive, Group Company Secretary assuming target levels of STIAs are met comparators which are used to inform and General Counsel and Group Human and the annualised expected value decisions on compensation policy and Resources Director provided input and of long term incentive provision.
appropriate compensation quantum advice to the Committee on remuneration respectively, having taken account of matters except in relation to their own In line with the Association of British individuals and Company performance.
Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration The Committee also takes pay and Policy and philosophy Committee ensures that the incentive conditions for the workforce as a whole The Committee has adopted the following structure for Executive Directors and and the impact on pension costs into remuneration philosophy: senior management will not raise account when determining the level environmental, social or governance of salary for Executive Directors.
Remuneration arrangements must ESG risks by inadvertently motivating help attract, motivate and retain the At the time of the merger of Taylor irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, management talent required to meet Woodrow plc and George Wimpey Plc the Committee under its terms of the Companys strategic objectives: in July 2007 the salaries of Executive reference may, where it considers it Directors were reviewed by the Committee The Company will be committed to appropriate, take ESG matters into in conjunction with its independent fostering a performance culture that account when considering the overall advisers and salaries were increased in effectively aligns individuals rewards remuneration structure.
The Committee order to reflect the size and complexity with increased corporate performance considers that no element of the of the enlarged Taylor Wimpey Group.
and shareholder value creation: remuneration arrangements will No increases were put in place for encourage inappropriate risk taking A significant proportion of each executives Executive Directors in either 2008 or 2009. or behaviour by any executive.
total compensation should be delivered As reported last year, in order to tie in through performance related pay: and with the annual appraisal process, salary External non executive director positions Incentive arrangements should be changes for all staff will take place with Subject to Board approval and provided capable of providing upper quartile effect from April in each year starting that such appointments fall within the total payment if outstanding in 2010.
In consultation with the general requirements of the Combined performance is achieved.
Remuneration Committee, increases Code, Executive Directors are permitted across the Group have been kept to 1.5% to take on non executive positions with The Committee regularly reviews its with only a few exceptions based on truly other companies.
Executive Directors are remuneration strategy and did so during exceptional performance or promotion.
permitted to retain their fees in respect the year.
The prime objective remains: With regard to the Executive Directors of such positions.
During 2009 and to the namely, to ensure that the Company is date of this Report, no Executive Director and the Group Company Secretary able to attract and retain highly skilled held any such non executive positions.
and General Counsel, each has elected and motivated people who will be key to waive their increases for 2010 as they to ensuring the long term success Base salary do not feel that it is currently appropriate of Taylor Wimpey.
The Remuneration Committee reviews to accept any increase.
A key component of the remuneration base salaries annually in order to ensure packages of the Executive Directors that the base salaries of Executive Other benets, including benets-in-kind and senior management is a significant Directors remain competitively aligned The Executive Directors receive additional element of performance related incentive with external market practices and are benets including a Company-provided remuneration, set against challenging competitive when measured against car or a cash allowance in lieu, life business performance objectives.
As part of this process the assurance and private medical insurance.
The chart above shows the Committee takes detailed advice from Benets-in-kind are not pensionable.
proportion of xed to performance its independent advisers who provide Details of the pension arrangements Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p41-50 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 43 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 43 Business Review Governance Statements in place for Executive Directors are set out Chris Rickard, 25% of which is required which include profit before interest and tax on page 50. to be deferred into shares for three years.
of the North American business, operating cash flow, order book and closings For 2010 the Remuneration Committee Short term incentive arrangements in each of the US and in Canada and has retained the cap on the maximum The Company provides Executive customer service.
Twenty five per cent STIA opportunity for the Group Chief Directors and senior managers the of any amount in excess of 150% of Executive and Group Finance Director.
opportunity to earn performance related base salary will be deferred and paid In addition there will be deferral STIAs based on achieving stretching out in cash over three years.
requirements of 25% and the performance targets.
clawback mechanism will be retained.
Sheryl Palmers usual award under No element of the 2009 STIA was based For the Group Chief Executive and Group the Companys long term incentive plan on personal objectives and it is the current Finance Director, challenging targets have is based on 100% of base salary and policy of the Committee that such been put in place which include Group as explained below, was scaled back objectives will not be included profit before tax, operating cash ow, in 2009 to 90% of base salary.
build costs, the Group order book and customer service.
Executives share-based incentive plans For 2009, the STIA targets were based Current plans on a number of specic stretching targets: Details of Sheryl Palmers remuneration At the Companys Annual General successfully concluding the renegotiation are set out below.
Meeting in 2008 shareholders of the Companys financial covenants, As mentioned earlier in this Report, the approved the introduction of two achieving the significant reduction of debt additional temporary short term incentive new long term incentive plans namely, facilities, the achievement of operating plan for synergy achievement arising out the Taylor Wimpey Performance Share cash ows and targets relating to the of the merger between Taylor Woodrow Plan TWPSP and the Taylor Wimpey Groups net asset position, excluding and George Wimpey details of which Share Option Plan TWSOP.
are set out in the 2007 Annual Report The plans enable incentives to be linked Following shareholder consultation, the and which potentially rewarded participants to both relative and absolute performance Committee decided to cap the 2009 STIA at 50% of salary for each of 2008 and and offer exibility to align long term for the Group Chief Executive and Group 2009 was not implemented for any incentives both with the long term interests Finance Director at 75% of their normal executive and the plan has now of shareholders and also with strategic maximum incentive opportunity.
This lapsed in its entirety.
priorities, whilst also being directly linked reduced the maximum STIA opportunity No element of any STIA is pensionable.
to external benchmarking of performance.
from 150% of salary to 112.5% of salary Full details of the plans are set out below.
The requirement Sheryl Palmer Except in circumstances which the to defer an element of the STIA into Sheryl Palmer was appointed to the Board Committee, after consulting the Board, Taylor Wimpey shares for three years on 5 August 2009 and is the President considers exceptional, the combined was retained although it was scaled and Chief Executive of Taylor Wimpeys value of awards under the two long down from 50% to 25% in order to North American business.
Details of term incentive plans will not exceed reect the lower STIA maximum potential.
her remuneration are set out in the the expected value of a TWPSP award The Committee determined that it was remuneration table on page 48 and of 200% of base salary face value important to retain a deferral requirement her share plan interests on page 49. for Executive Directors or 300% of base in order to maintain appropriate alignment Sheryl Palmer has an annual basic salary salary face value for other participants.
between its most senior executives and of US$615,000 389,000.
Sheryl has shareholders which it considers to be very Since the approval of the TWPSP and a normal maximum STIA opportunity of important.
There is no share matching the TWSOP in 2008, the Committee 500% of base salary which is in line with element with regard to any element has not made any exceptional awards North American industry practice where of the STIA.
over and above these multiples.
Where short term incentive multiples tend to be the Committee elects to make an award The Committee also introduced a much higher than in the UK and notably to an executive under both the TWPSP clawback mechanism into the STIA so in the housebuilding industry.
and the TWSOP a conversion ratio will whereby the deferred element can be The STIA targets for 2009 were based on apply such that one share award under proportionately recovered in the event a number of targets including profit before the TWPSP equates to two shares of a material misstatement of the interest and tax, net assets, completions awarded under the TWSOP.
Certain of these conversion ratio reflects the fact that As a result of outstanding performance, targets were met resulting in an STIA participants are required to pay an option signicantly above expectations, the STIA award to Sheryl Palmer of 225.5% of base price per share on any exercise under targets set at the beginning of the year salary.
It is a requirement that 25% of any the TWSOP and also to broadly have been met, including the successful amount paid to Sheryl Palmer in excess equalise the expected benefit to the renegotiation of the Companys financial of 150% of base salary pursuant to the recipient if both vest to an equal extent.
covenants and achieving the significant STIA must be deferred and paid out in 2009 awards: following consultation reduction of debt facilities.
These targets cash equally over a three year period with major shareholders with regard were discussed with shareholders during under the Taylor Morrison Annual to the overall remuneration of Executive the consultation on 2009 Executive Bonus Deferral Plan.
Directors, awards under the TWPSP and Director remuneration.
This performance Sheryl Palmers 2010 STIA will be based the TWSOP to UK Executive Directors has resulted in STIA awards of 112.5% on a number of challenging measures were reduced from 200% of basic salary of base salary to Pete Redfern and to www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 44 44 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report continued face value down to 180%.
Sheryl Committee considers that TSR remains Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan Palmers usual award level of 100% appropriate as it rewards management for Under this plan Executive Directors and of base salary was reduced to 90%.
delivering superior returns to shareholders senior executives may be granted annually In addition the Committee determined than its peers.
ROCE is also considered to a conditional award of shares with a value, that 2009 awards should not be capable be appropriate as it directly measures the at the date of grant, of up to 2x base of vesting until 2013 ordinarily, subject efficient use of capital.
Consistent with salary Executive Directors or 3x base to the performance conditions being the 2009 awards Earnings Per Share salary other participants subject to the satisfied, awards are subject to a three EPS will not be used as a performance overall limits on awards described earlier.
year performance period following which measure.
The Committee will however Such awards vest after three years any vesting will take place.
Again, as part consider reintroducing an EPS element provided, and to the extent that, the of the consultation process and in once the economic outlook becomes more associated performance conditions accordance with the rules of the two certain.
The Committee has decided not have then been achieved.
plans for 2009, the Committee also to make any awards under the TWSOP The performance targets for proposed implemented different performance this year but will keep the position under conditions for both the TWPSP and the review for future years.
Unlike 2009, the 2010 awards, which will be made in two TWSOP in order to make the conditions Committee has determined that awards equal tranches, are as stated earlier more appropriate to the position of the will not be scaled back and therefore the and will apply to each tranche.
Company whilst retaining alignment Group Chief Executive and Group Finance The performance targets for awards with shareholders interests.
Director will receive a multiple based on made during 2009 are that the Companys 200% of their base salary and Sheryl Palmer The Committee is of the view that the TSR performance over the period compared will receive a multiple based on 100% performance conditions have been made to its peer group shall be at least 50th of her base salary.
The Committee has more challenging to achieve as a result percentile for 25% of the TSR-related however decided to reduce the percentage of the changes which are explained more award to vest or 75th percentile for of awards that vest for achieving threshold fully in the individual section on each plan 100% of the TSR-related award to vest.
performance from 25% of the award down below and summarised as follows: There would be straight line vesting to 20% of the award.
Awards will be made between these TSR thresholds.
TWPSP: following consultation with in two equal tranches namely, after the Full shareholders, the Committee decided Year Results Announcement in March Similar performance conditions applied that the earnings per share performance and during the first week after the Half Year to awards made during 2008 save that the condition that applied to previous awards Results Announcement.
This is designed to first TSR comparator group was the FTSE reduce the potential overlap of the vesting should not be used as the economic 100 and 50% of the award was based on outlook was too uncertain to allow of awards made in 2009 where the an EPS-related performance test whereby robust targets to be set based on this performance period is essentially four Group EPS must have grown over the measure.
With regard to the total years with those made in 2010, where performance period by at least 3% p. a. shareholder return performance condition the normal three year performance period for 25% of the award to vest and 8% p. a. the Committee decided that 50% of that has been re-introduced.
With regard to for 100% of the award to vest.
Following award should be based on the FTSE 250 the awards to be made after the Half Year consultation with major shareholders, the rather than the FTSE 100 index since Results Announcement the date of Committee removed the EPS-related the FTSE 250 index is more closely performance testing will accordingly be performance test and based the entire aligned to the Companys current market adjusted with regard to both the TSR and performance test for the 2009 awards on ROCE performance measures, in order to capitalisation.
The industry-based peer the relative performance of the Companys group was however retained as an reect the later grant date.
The Remuneration Committee has additional Total Shareholder Return will be tested over the three years from the discretion to vary the targets other than TSR performance measure: date of grant and ROCE will be tested over for Executive Directors to relate them to the period consisting of the last six months TWSOP: the Committee moved business unit and individual performance of 2012 and the first six months of 2013. from a performance test based on the targets and can also do so with regard Full details of the 2010 awards will be Companys return on capital employed to the Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan.
included in the next Remuneration Report.
ROCE having to exceed its Cost of During 2009, awards were made to 23 Capital COC to an absolute ROCE The two TSR peer groups are rstly, FTSE executives 2008: 329 over an aggregate performance test.
250 50% of TSR-related performance of 6,087,533 shares 2008: 5,643,537, and, secondly, Barratt, Bellway, Berkeley based on the share price of 39.34 pence The satisfaction of any performance Group, Bovis Homes Group, Galliford Try, condition will be the subject of 2008: 161.67 pence, exercisable in Kier, Marshalls, Persimmon, Redrow, independent verication.
2013 following the announcement of SIG, Travis Perkins and Wolseley the Groups results for 2012 and the For 2010, the Committee has determined 50% of TSR-related performance.
associated performance calculation which to make awards under the TWPSP only For both tranches of the 2010 awards, will take place in or around March 2013. and similar to 2009 is making awards only vesting will be 20% 2009: 25% for Details of awards made to Executive to selected senior executives in the UK and threshold performance 50th percentile Directors appear on page 49.
The performance tests will for TSR: 10% ROCE and 100% 2009: be based on TSR 60% of the award of Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan 100% for upper quartile performance which half will be measured against the Under this plan Executive Directors and 75th percentile for TSR: 20% ROCE industry-based peer group and half will senior executives may be granted annually raight line vesting between these two be measured against the FTSE 250 an option over shares with a value, at thresholds.
The Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p41-50 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 10 09:18 Page 45 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 45 Business Review Governance Statements date of grant, of up to 200% base salary Executive Directors or 300% base salary Total shareholder return other participants subject to the overall 300 limits described earlier.
Such awards, which may be income tax-approved up 200 to HMRCs aggregate limit of 30,000, vest after three years for awards during 100 2008 and after four years for awards during 2009 from the commencement of 0 the associated performance measurement 04 05 06 07 08 09 period provided, and to the extent that, Taylor Wimpey plc FTSE 100 Index FTSE 250 Index TW PSP Peer Group the associated performance condition Source: Thomson Reuters has then been achieved.
For awards This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2009, of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on made in 2009, the performance target is 31 December 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, the FTSE 250 that ROCE is 10% or more for 25% of the Index and in the bespoke peer group used for the Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan.
The other award to vest or 20% or more for 100% points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
For awards made in 2008 the equivalent targets were for ROCE to exceed COC 25% vesting George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan or five year options to acquire the and to exceed it by 3% 100% vesting.
The George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Companys shares priced at a discount For both years there would be straight Plan was closed to new awards upon the of up to 20% of market value.
During 2009, line vesting between the two thresholds.
merger of Taylor Woodrow plc and George 746 employees 2008: 1,248 applied to During 2009, options were granted to 23 Wimpey Plc in July 2007 at which time the join the Plan.
Options were granted over executives 2008: 329 over an aggregate performance shares were effectively rolled 7,101,166 shares 2008: 22,685,606 at of 12,175,072 shares 2008: 13,247,283, into shares in the Company.
Conditional an option price of 39.2 pence per share.
based on the share price of 39.34 pence awards of shares have been held by a The Company also operates a UK Share 2008: 137.75 pence, exercisable in 2013 small number of key executives and Purchase Plan, under which UK employees following the announcement of the Groups only vest if predetermined performance with at least three months service are results for 2012 and the associated conditions are satisfied over the three year permitted to invest up to 1,500 per performance calculation expected performance period.
The key condition is annum of their pre-tax earned income in to be in or around March 2013.
Details the measurement of TSR against a peer the purchase of partnership shares of the of awards made to Executive Directors group of companies.
Awards vest if the Company.
Such shares, if held for a period appear on page 49.
Companys TSR compared to the peer of three years, attract an award of free group exceeds the 50th percentile 25% matching shares.
Currently participants Additional performance test of the awards vest or 75th percentile receive one matching share for each An additional requirement for any vesting 100% of the awards vest.
During under the current share-based incentive 2009, 611 participants contributed to plans is that at the time of approving the The final TSR performance test in respect the Plan 2008: 1,504 and purchased vesting, the Committee must be satisfied of the three year plan cycle to 31 December 1,780,078 partnership shares 2008: with the overall financial performance 2009 has been independently undertaken.
Details of awards held during of the Group.
The performance test was not met and as the year by Executive Directors appear all outstanding entitlements have lapsed on page 49.
Pre-merger share plans in full, the Plan has now ceased.
Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Overseas George Wimpey Executive Share Plan formerly the Taylor Woodrow The Companys all-employee stock Option Scheme Performance Share Plan purchase plans in the US and in Canada, The George Wimpey Executive Share The Taylor Wimpey Performance Share which are broadly equivalent to those Option Scheme closed to new awards Plan operated from 2004 to 2007, when operated in the UK, are not being on 3 July 2007.
Existing options were it was superseded by the current Taylor operated.
No Executive Director is, rolled-over into equivalent options over Wimpey Performance Share Plan or was at any time during 2009, a the Companys shares at that time and described above.
Full details of the plan member of either of these plans.
remain subject to the rules of the Scheme.
appeared in last years report.
The last No Executive Director has any participation award under the Plan was made in 2007 Performance graph in the Scheme.
and it is closed to new awards.
No awards The graph above shows the Companys are held by Executive Directors.
performance, measured by TSR for the All-employee share plans five year period to 31 December 2009, Taylor Wimpey Executive Share Option United Kingdom compared with the performance of the Plan formerly the Taylor Woodrow The Company encourages share FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250 Share Index Executive Share Option Plan ownership by employees and accordingly, also measured by TSR.
These two it operates a number of all-employee share The Taylor Wimpey Executive Share comparator groups are those used plans.
The Company operates a Sharesave Option Plan operated until 2003 and was in successive years awards under the suspended on 9 October 2003.
It is now Plan under which all UK employees with Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan, closed to new awards.
No awards are at least three months service can save described above.
up to 250 per month and receive three www.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 46 46 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report continued Other matters affecting share plans received under long term incentive plans.
Pension arrangements The purpose of the guidelines is to align The rules of the Companys share Details of the Groups principal UK the interests of Directors and senior plans provide for the early vesting or pension schemes are given in Note 22 management with those of shareholders exercise of share entitlements in certain on page 84 to the consolidated through the creation of a community of circumstances.
In line with applicable financial statements.
The guidelines and requirements guidelines, in the event of death or are set out below: cessation of employment due to a change Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes of control or sale of business, awards Taylor Woodrow Group Pension 1.
Within five years of 1 January 2008 or would be pro-rated and early vesting and Life Assurance Fund from the date of appointment if later: would be subject to the judgement and The Fund was closed to new entrants Executive Directors will be expected discretion of the Remuneration Committee, from 31 March 2002.
With effect from to build up a shareholding in Taylor which would ordinarily take into account 1 September 2004, a restriction was Wimpey broadly equal to 1x the performance of the Company as at applied so as to limit the amount of any base salary: the date of the event.
In the event of a increase in pensionable salary of members participant leaving due to incapacity, Other Executive Committee members of this scheme to the lesser of the actual redundancy or normal retirement, pro-rating will be expected to build up a increase in basic salary or the RPI, of awards would occur but the three year shareholding broadly equal subject to a maximum of 5% per performance period would normally remain.
The Fund ceased accrual of benets on 30 November 2006 and from In accordance with the plan rules 2.
Executive Directors and members of 1 December 2006 existing active Fund and as indicated in previous Directors the Corporate, UK and NA leadership members were invited to participate in Remuneration Reports, EPS gures for teams who participate in the the PCP, referred to below and to which the purpose of performance measurement Performance Share Plan PSP and members and the Company contribute.
of share incentive schemes are restated or the Share Option Plan SOP are expected to retain shares for one year in accordance with International Financial Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan as set out below: Reporting Standards.
With effect from 1 April 2002 the 50% of the net amount of any shares Details of the sources of shares issued Company introduced the PCP, a dened that vest under the PSP in the case or transferred during the year to meet contribution pension scheme which all of Executive Directors and 25% in new eligible UK employees are invited maturing or vesting rights under the the case of other participants: to join.
Companys share-based reward schemes, and the potential further requirement for 50% of the net gain of shares following Denis Mac Daid retired from the Board on shares to satisfy options and awards the exercise of any executive share 30 June 2005.
The Company is paying to outstanding at the end of the year, are options under the SOP in the case him by monthly instalments the difference shown in Note 24 to the consolidated of Executive Directors and 25% between benets calculated at his assumed financial statements.
Share plans are also in the case of other participants.
retirement date of 5 April 2006 and his compliant with ABI dilution guidelines.
The above retention requirements The Companys policy, as set out in last equivalent of this payment is 21,422.48 will also apply to shares received years report, has been to utilise treasury 2008: 20,731.
No other arrangements by the above categories of executive shares, transferred to its Employee Share were made during the year for the provision under the previous Taylor Wimpey Ownership Trusts, to meet any further Performance Share Plan.
of pensions for former Directors.
requirement for shares in respect of 4.
Shares that vest or are received George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme share plans.
However, on 1 June 2009 following the exercise of any option, Pete Redfern is a member of the Executive the Companys remaining holding of count towards the targets set out in section of the George Wimpey Staff Pension treasury shares was cancelled as a section 1 above.
Subject to the Model Scheme Scheme.
The Scheme now consequence of the Placing and Open Code and any other applicable rules closed to new members is a funded, Offer.
The Companys present intention governing dealings in shares and Inland Revenue approved, final salary is to meet such requirements, wherever subject to the retention policy set out occupational pension scheme.
Members it is possible to do so, substantially by in section 2 above, such shares may contribute between 5% and 10% of salary.
a mix of market purchases and utilising be sold provided that the target holdings Executive members of the Scheme cease the remaining balance of shares in the are met within the applicable timeframe.
to contribute once they have achieved appropriate Trust.
Shares that are held on trust for any 30 years pensionable service.
Pensions relatively small requirements for shares, executive pursuant to the deferred in payment are guaranteed to increase mainly for overseas plans, these will bonus scheme will count towards in line with the Retail Price Index to a continue to be met for administrative the target shareholding.
maximum of 5% per annum 2.5% for convenience from other sources, all service earned after 6 April 2006. including new issue.
The Chairman and the Non Executive As recently announced, the Company Directors are expected to hold shares is engaged in an employee consultation Share retention and target in the Company in order to align their exercise with all active members of the Director shareholdings interests with those of shareholders.
Scheme, on a proposal to close the The Remuneration Committee has The Committee will keep these Scheme to future accrual and to provide approved guidelines relating to target guidelines under regular review future pension benets for members shareholdings in the Company and share to ensure that they remain both within the PCP.
retention requirements in respect of shares reasonable and appropriate.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p41-50 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 47 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 47 Business Review Governance Statements Other changes to the Companys various pension schemes are also the subject of consultation.
The Scheme provides executive members with a pension of up to two thirds of pensionable salary this is capped for members who joined after April 1989 on retirement at age 65, subject to the member having completed 30 years pensionable service.
Life assurance of up to 4x basic salary and a pension of two thirds of the members entitlement for spouses on their death in service, or in retirement, are provided, together with a childrens allowance of up to 100% of the dependants pension for three or more children.
Pensionable salary excludes all bonuses, benets-in-kind and incentive-related remuneration.
For early retirement, after age 50 but prior to age 65, pensions will be reduced by an appropriate actuarial factor.
Pete Redfern has a pension allowance through additional payments to him, amounting to 25% of the difference between his basic salary and the pension schemes earnings cap.
Pension allowances do not count towards the calculation of any bonus awards which are based only on base salary.
The Executive Directors accrued pensions in 2009 are shown on page 50.
George Wimpey Stakeholder Scheme No Executive Director is a member of the stakeholder scheme.
Directors contracts It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts of employment providing for a maximum of one years notice.
Upon appointment, Chris Rickard was entitled to 18 months notice for the first year of employment.
His entitlement was reduced to 12 months from 16 October 2009 which is in line with other Executive Directors.
Service contracts for all Executive Directors and letters of appointment for all Non Executive Directors are available for inspection as described in the Notice of 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Directors contracts are summarised in the table below: Notice period Notice period Normal Date of Unexpired term by Company by Director retirement Current Name contract months months months age age Pete Redfern 13 October 2004 12 12 12 60 39 Chris Rickard 20 October 2008 12 12 12 60 53 Sheryl Palmer 4 August 2009 12 12 12 65 48 Proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Proposed for election at the Annual General Meeting.
It is the Companys policy that liquidated damages should not automatically apply on the termination of an Executive Directors contract.
In accordance with this approach, payment for early termination of contract without cause by the Company is, in the case of each of the Executive Directors, to be determined having regard to normal legal principles which require mitigation of liability on a case-by-case basis.
Any such payment would typically be determined by reference to the main elements of a Directors remuneration, namely: salary: bonus entitlement: benets-in-kind: and pension entitlements.
Phased payments will be considered by the Company where appropriate.
There are no change of control provisions that apply in relation to the service contract of any Executive Director.
Non Executive Directors Non Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Their terms of engagement are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice Notice period by period by Date of appointment Date of initial letter Term of Company Director Current Directors as a Director of appointment appointment months months Norman Askew 29 July 2003 25 July 2003 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Brenda Dean 3 July 2007 21 November 2007 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Andrew Dougal 18 November 2002 31 October 2002 3 years, reviewed annually 66 Katherine Innes Ker 1 July 2001 21 May 2001 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Anthony Reading 3 July 2007 21 November 2007 3 years, reviewed annually 66 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 1 December 2009 3 years, reviewed annually 66 David Williams 3 July 2007 21 November 2007 3 years, reviewed annually 66 Former Director Mike Davies 13 October 2003 29 September 2003 3 years, reviewed annually 66 Proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Note: Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading and David Williams were independent non executive directors of George Wimpey Plc GW up until the merger with Taylor Woodrow on 3 July 2007.
Their respective dates of appointment were 7 October 2003, 15 April 2005 and 1 May 2001 and, as set out in the Corporate Governance Report, time spent as a director of GW is deemed to count towards each Directors overall term of ofce as a Director of the Company.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 48 48 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report continued The fees of Non Executive Directors were determined by the Board in their absence taking into account the research carried out by independent remuneration consultants of fees paid to non executive directors of similar sized companies and the sector-based peer group.
Non Executive Director fees are subject to the aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 imposed by the Articles of Association and will be reviewed annually.
The basic fees of each Non Executive Director were standardised at 50,000 per annum following the merger between Taylor Woodrow plc and George Wimpey Plc in 2007.
The Senior Independent Director receives an additional payment of 10,000 in respect of the performance of this role.
The standard fee for chairing a Board Committee Audit, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility is 10,000.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fee for chairing the Nomination Committee.
The fees of the Non Executive Directors have not been increased since the merger.
Chairmans fees: as reported last year, the Chairman determined that in light of the prevailing difficult market conditions affecting the Company, his annual fees should be reduced from 270,000 per annum to 200,000 with effect from 1 January 2009.
This was subsequently agreed with the Remuneration Committee and endorsed by the Board.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non Executive Directors participate in any of the Companys share plans or bonus plans and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Part 2: Audited Information Directors emoluments Basic Salary salary supplement STIA in p. a. with Basic in lieu of Benetsrespect of Other 2009 2008 effect from salary fee pension in-kind 2009 benets total total 01.04.2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Pete Redfern 700 144 25 788 30 1,687 874 700 Chris Rickard 380 13 428 84 905 83 380 Sheryl Palmer Appointed 5 August 2009 158 5 878 3 1,044 389 Peter Johnson Resigned 16 October 2008 791 Ian Sutcliffe Resigned 14 April 2008 333 Fees p. a. with effect Non Executive from 01.01.2010 Norman Askew 200 200 270 200 Brenda Dean 50 50 50 50 Andrew Dougal 56 56 60 50 Katherine Innes Ker 60 60 60 60 Anthony Reading 60 60 60 60 Rob Rowley Appointed 1 January 2010 60 David Williams 65 65 60 60 Mike Davies Resigned 1 September 2009 33 33 50 Aggregate emoluments 1,762 144 43 2,094 117 4,160 2008 2,691 Sheryl Palmer was appointed to the Board in August 2009.
Her annual salary is US$615,000 which on an average exchange rate of 1:$1.58 equates to 389,000 per annum.
As reported earlier, any change in basic salary is now effective from 1 April.
No salary increases are to be awarded to any Executive Director for 2010.
Aggregate emoluments of the Executive Committee excluding Executive Directors Basic Salary salary supplement STIA in p. a. with Basic in lieu of Benetsrespect of Other 2009 2008 effect from salary fee pension in-kind 2009 benets total total 01.04.2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 6 members 1,286 81 86 1,213 155 2,821 1,946 1,341 Includes non-cash payments.
During the year the composition of the Executive Committee has been amended.
There were two members of the Executive Committee during 2008 other than the Executive Directors.
No expense allowances are paid.
In addition, a charge of 234,946 2008: 65,000 was booked in respect of share-based payments.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 49 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 49 Business Review Governance Statements Directors share-based reward and options Aggregate emoluments disclosed opposite do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company and any other share-based reward granted to or held by the Directors.
No Director exercised an option or conditional award over ordinary shares during the year 2008: nil.
Market value per share on date of grant 7 August 2009 was 38 pence.
c. Market value per share on date of grant 2 October 2009 was 40.96 pence.
d. Following the Companys Placing and Open Offer on 1 June 2009, all Share Plan entitlements, including numbers of shares under option award and option price per share, were adjusted by a formula approved by HM Revenue and Customs and agreed with the Companys Auditors.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share options during the financial year.
The performance criteria relating to the Performance Share Plans and Share Option Plans appear earlier in this Directors Remuneration Report.
Awards made pursuant to the George Wimpey LTIP are conditional and do not vest in whole or part unless predetermined performance conditions are satisfied over a three year period.
The performance conditions are explained in detail on page 45.
For 2006 and 2007, the relevant share prices for the calculation of awards were 544.1 pence and 575.9 pence.
The TSR performance in respect of those shares conditionally awarded under the 2007 George Wimpey LTIP was not met.
No vesting has taken place and all awards under this scheme have now lapsed.
These shares are however indexed in the 31 December 2009 column above for Pete Redfern.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2009 was 38.9 pence and the range during the year was 13.75 pence to 53.2 pence.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:13 Page 50 50 Directors Report: Governance Remuneration Report continued Directors interests in shares of the Company Directors interests in 1 pence ordinary shares held fully paid ordinary shares : Executive Directors share interests at 31.12.09 valued at 31.12.09 share price and at 1.1.
09 at 31.12.09 expressed as a percentage ordinary shares ordinary shares of basic salary at 1.4.
10 Norman Askew 15,674 31,348 Pete Redfern 92,705 195,410 11% Chris Rickard 77,402 8% Sheryl Palmer 200,000 200,000 20% Brenda Dean 8,348 26,696 Andrew Dougal 5,000 15,000 Katherine Innes Ker 1,000 12,000 Anthony Reading 20,000 40,000 Rob Rowley David Williams 8,269 16,538 or date of appointment As reported earlier, any change in basic salary is now effective from 1 April.
Directors pension entitlements Dened benefit schemes George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme Pete Redfern is a member of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme.
The following table sets out the transfer value of his accrued benets under the Scheme calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase in transfer Transfer value Transfer value from Increase in accrued of accrued Increase in Transfer value value gross 31 December 2008 to pension from pension accrued pension from Accrued gross of Directors of Directors 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 increase less Accrued pension as at 31 December 2008 pension as at contributions at contributions at less Directors to 31 December 2009 Directors 1 2 2 3 4 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 contributions less ination contribution Pete Redfern 20,907 3,813 24,720 232,700 183,500 37,000 3,813 18,500 1.
Pension accrual shown is the amount which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 December 2009.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008.
The increase in the transfer value includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market movements.
The transfer value of accrued pension increase less Directors contribution represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the period, calculated on the assumption service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the increase in accrued pension less ination after deducting the Directors contribution.
Non-Group pension arrangements Chris Rickard and Sheryl Palmer have non-Group pension arrangements, to which contributions were paid by the Company as set out below: 2009 2008 Chris Rickard 83,600 17,417 Sheryl Palmer 7,077 Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 2 March 2010 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: Anthony Reading 2 March 2010 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p51-54 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:14 Page 51 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 51 Business Review Governance Statements Directors Report: Governance Statutory, Regulatory and Other Formal Information Introduction Mike Davies, Independent Non Executive Audit and auditors This section contains the remaining matters Director, resigned on 1 September 2009.
Each Director at the date of approval of this Report confirms that: on which the Directors are required to The Directors together with their report each year, which do not appear so far as each Director is aware, there biographical information are shown elsewhere in this Directors Report.
is no relevant audit information of which on pages 32 and 33.
With regard to those Directors who are the subject of election the Companys auditors are unaware Certain other matters required to be or re-election at the Annual General included in this report appear elsewhere in he she has taken all the steps Meeting on 29 April 2010 as set out the Report and Accounts as detailed below: that he she ought to have taken as a below biographical information is also Director in order to make himself herself A list of the subsidiary and associated set out on page 108. aware of any relevant audit information undertakings, including branches and to establish that the Companys In determining the retirement and re-election outside the UK, principally affecting auditors are aware of that information.
of the Directors, the Company is governed the profits or net assets of the Group by its Articles of Association Articles, in the year appears on page 103.
This conrmation is given and should be the Combined Code on Corporate interpreted in accordance with the provisions Changes in asset values are set out in Governance June 2008 the Combined of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the consolidated balance sheet on page Code, the Companies Act 2006 and 58 and in the Notes to the accounts on Deloitte LLP have confirmed their related legislation.
The Articles may pages 61 to 94. willingness to continue in office be amended by special resolution as auditors of the Company and a of the shareholders.
The powers The Groups loss before taxation resolution to re-appoint them will be of the Directors are described in and the loss after taxation and minority proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
interests appear in the consolidated income statement on page 56 and in the It is the Companys general policy that Retirement and re-election of Directors Notes to the accounts on pages 61 to 94. its auditors will not carry out non-audit In accordance with the Articles, at the services except where it is appropriate A detailed statement of the Groups Annual General Meeting, Sheryl Palmer to do so and in accordance with the treasury management and funding and Rob Rowley, who were appointed Companys policy for such work.
is set out in Note 21 on page 80. as Directors by the Board since the last Deloitte LLP provided non-audit Annual General Meeting, will retire and, services to the Group during the year Directors being eligible, seek election by shareholders.
within the policy framework described The following eight Directors held ofce in the Corporate Governance Report.
Katherine Innes Ker and Pete Redfern throughout the year: retire by rotation and each will, being Annual General Meeting Norman Askew, Chairman eligible, offer themselves for re-election The Annual General Meeting will be at the Annual General Meeting in Pete Redfern, Group Chief Executive held at 11.00 am on 29 April 2010 accordance with the Articles.
at The British Medical Association, Chris Rickard, Group Finance Director Each of the Directors proposed for BMA House, Tavistock Square, Brenda Dean, Independent election or re-election at the Annual London, WC1H 9JP.
General Meeting is being unanimously Non Executive Director Formal notice of the Meeting including recommended by all of the other members Andrew Dougal, Independent details of special business is set out in of the Board.
This recommendation follows Non Executive Director the Notice of Annual General Meeting the completion of the annual performance on page 105 and on the Companys evaluation process which included a Katherine Innes Ker, Independent Web site www.
detailed appraisal of the Board, its Non Executive Director The Notice also sets out the new rights Committees and in respect of each Anthony Reading, Independent of shareholders, and additional details of Director.
Further information relating to Non Executive Director the Annual General Meeting, introduced the evaluation is set out below and in the by the Companies Act 2006 and the Corporate Governance Report on page 35.
David Williams, Independent Companies Shareholders Rights Non Executive Director and the Regulations 2009.
Qualifying third party indemnities Senior Independent Director The Company has granted indemnities Voting on all resolutions at this years As previously announced, Norman Askew and in favour of its Directors and officers of Annual General Meeting will be conducted David Williams will step down from the Board by 31 December 2010 and on 31 March 2010 respectively.
itself and of its Group companies against by way of a poll, rather than on a show financial exposure that they may incur in of hands, as the Board believes that Sheryl Palmer was appointed a Director the course of their professional duties as a poll gives as many shareholders as on 5 August 2009.
Directors and ofcers of the Company possible the opportunity to have their Rob Rowley was appointed an and or its subsidiaries.
These have been votes counted whether their votes are Independent Non Executive Director granted in accordance with section 234 tendered by proxy in advance of, or in on 1 January 2010. of the Companies Act 2006. person at the Annual General Meeting.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:14 Page 52 52 Directors Report: Governance Statutory, Regulatory and Other Formal Information continued Web communication Substantial interests in the Companys shares as at 2 March 2010 In 2009 the Company, with shareholders Number of Percentage of consent, adopted web communication.
shares held issued voting Name millions share capital The benets of web communication are that it: BlackRock Inc 325.22 10.17 Schroders plc 191.94 6.00 Enables the Company to signicantly reduce its printing and postage costs: JP Morgan Chase & Co. and various controlled undertakings 149.63 4.68 Legal & General Group Plc 127.16 3.97 Enables shareholders to access information faster, on the day Polaris Capital Management, LLC 94.45 3.67 documents are published on Standard Life Investments Limited 96.39 3.02 the Companys Web site: and Reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, and lessen 1p new Ordinary Shares and 24p Deferred Ownership Trusts generally abstain from the impact of printing and mailing Shares in May 2009: Ordinary Shares of voting in respect of shares held by them.
1p each of which carries the right to one No person has any special rights of control vote at general meetings of the Company Shareholder communications including over the Companys share capital and all and such other rights and obligations as the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts issued shares are fully paid.
are set out in the Companys Articles are available electronically through of Association: and Deferred Shares the Companys Web site.
Substantial interests which carry no voting rights.
The persons set out in the table Visit our Web site www.
com On 1 June 2009 the Company allotted above have notied the Company 2,131,132,548 new 1p Ordinary Shares pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure The Company provides hard copy as part of the Placing and Open Offer.
and Transparency Rules of their interests documentation to those shareholders in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
who have requested this and is, of course, As part of the debt restructuring happy to meet any such requests.
announced on 7 April 2009 the At 2 March 2010, no change in these Company issued Warrants to certain holdings had been notied nor, according Registrar of its lenders giving the holders the right, to the register of members, did any other The Companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
up to 29 April 2014, to subscribe for up shareholder at that date have a disclosable Their details, together with information to an aggregate of approximately 58 million holding of the issued share capital.
on facilities available to shareholders, Ordinary Shares representing approximately are set out in the Shareholder Directors interests, including interests 5% of the Companys issued share capital Information section on page 112. in the Companys shares, are shown at the time the Warrants were issued in the Remuneration Report.
and approximately 1.8% of the Treasury shares enlarged issued share capital after The Company cancelled its entire the Placing and Open Offer for cash Dividend holding of 92,732,927 treasury shares at a subscription price per share of The Board has resolved not to propose a on 1 June 2009 at the conclusion of the 17.4473 pence 25 pence prior to the final dividend for 2009.
Any right to receive Placing and Open Offer.
The authority Placing and Open Offer.
The Warrants a dividend has been waived in part by the given by shareholders at the Annual are transferable and carry entitlement to trustee of the Companys two Employee General Meeting on 19 June 2009 for subscription for three months after the Share Ownership Trusts over those Trusts the Company to purchase a maximum of passing of a resolution for the winding combined holding of 3,354,791 shares 115.8 million of its own shares, remained up of the Company.
To date, aggregate which have been set aside to meet valid at 31 December 2009.
The authority exercises of Warrants has resulted in commitments under the Companys was not exercised during 2009 or prior to the issue of 433,459 new Ordinary employee share plans.
the date of this Report and the Company Shares of 1p each.
has no intention of exercising the authority Research and development There are no specic restrictions on the in the present economic conditions but The Company remains committed to size of a holding, the exercise of voting will be seeking the usual authority at investing in research and development rights, nor on the transfer of shares, the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
projects where there are clearly dened which are governed by the Articles of business benets.
Capital structure The Directors are not aware of any Details of the Companys issued share In the UK, we have designed a new range capital, together with details of the agreements between holders of the of standard house types.
These meet movements in the Companys issued Companys shares that may result in changing market preferences through share capital during the year are shown restrictions on the transfer of securities updated floor plans and offer greater in Note 24 on page 88. or on voting rights.
They offer alternative internal layouts within The Company has two classes of shares Details of employee share schemes are a standard external skin, and increase following the subdivision of the Companys set out in the Remuneration Report on existing Ordinary Shares of 25p each into efficiency and reduce cost through pages 43 to 46.
The Employee Share Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 TW012 p51-54 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:14 Page 53 Directors Report Directors Report Financial 53 Business Review Governance Statements allowing modular construction.
Modules which broadly reects that of the local addition the Charity Committee recently are interchangeable between two, three catchment area within which we operate.
organised a fund raising event in aid of and four bedroom homes.
No employee or potential employee will receive less favourable treatment due to We are also focused on meeting the Further information on the Groups donations, their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic progressive application of the Governments activities and initiatives can be found in the origin, religion, political or other opinion, Code for Sustainable Homes at all levels.
afliation, gender, sexual orientation, On a unit basis, each of the new standard marital status, family connections, age, house types has been future-proofed, Political donations membership or non membership of a as far as possible, to meet the Codes The Company did not make any donations trade union, or disability, unless justifiable requirements.
Within each unit, we are to political parties or organisations during in exceptional circumstances, for example 2009 2008: nil and has a strict policy not continuing our review of micro-renewables due to health and safety considerations.
However, we will be seeking the such as photo-voltaic cells on the roof Instruction on equal opportunities is usual annual dispensation at the Annual and air-sourced heat recovery pumps.
part of the induction programme.
General Meeting as the legislation relating In the US the Company is investigating to political organisations is very wide how we could incorporate Green building Employment of disabled persons and in certain circumstances a donation into our business processes, in order It is our policy that people with disabilities or a subscription to a charity or other that we progressively move towards a should have fair consideration for all organisation could retrospectively be best-value approach.
The Company also vacancies within the Group.
conducted a survey of homebuyers in the The Company is therefore committed, planned location of a new development, Policy on payment of suppliers where possible, to ensure that people with to identify key amenity value decisions The nature of the Groups operations disabilities are supported and encouraged in home purchasing and give greater means that there is no single Group to apply for employment and to achieve focus to the future design of amenity standard in respect of payment terms progress once employed.
They will be and community layout.
Generally, business units treated so that they have an equal are responsible for establishing payment opportunity, so far as it is justifiable, Employee involvement terms with suppliers when entering to be selected, trained and promoted.
and communication into each transaction or series of linked In addition, every reasonable effort is The Company is committed transactions.
In the absence of dispute, made for disabled persons to be retained to ensuring open and regular valid payment requests are met as in the employment of the Group by communication throughout the expeditiously as possible within investigating the possibility of making Group on both business-related such terms.
In the UK, commencing reasonable adjustments to the job, issues and issues of general interest.
on 1 January 2010, our new suite workplace or equipment.
There is a formal Employee Consultative of standard framework agreements Committee structure in all operations with suppliers establishes the due date Charitable donations and elected representatives meet with for payment as 30 days from the later of During the year the Company formally management to consult on appropriate the date of issue of the invoice or request reinstated its Charity Committee, which issues.
Intranet systems are continually for payment, or the relevant month end reports to the Corporate Responsibility updated which provide a valuable notied by the employer.
Committee and operates within written communication tool across the Group Trade creditor days for the Group for terms of reference and charitable and an important facility for providing the year ended 31 December 2009 were guidelines approved by the Board.
employees with access to a wide range 20 days 2008: 26 days.
This is based The Charity Committees aims are to of information.
Information is regularly on the ratio of year end Group trade monitor and review charitable donations cascaded throughout the Group via creditors excluding sub-contract made by regional businesses and to electronic communication, verbal retentions and unagreed claims of assess and administer some larger briefings and by management 35.3 million 2008: 28.8 million donations centrally.
There is also an and land creditors, see Note 20 to the committee are the Group HR Director internal magazine teamtalk which the consolidated financial statements Chairman, Group Company Secretary is widely circulated across the Group.
to amounts invoiced during the year and General Counsel, Group Financial The Company promotes all-employee by trade creditors.
The Company Controller, Taylor Wimpey UK Land and share plans, including the Save As You had no significant trade creditors Planning Director, Taylor Morrison Vice Earn share option scheme and the Share at 31 December 2009.
President Human Resources, Group Purchase Plan, as widely as possible Investor Relations Manager and across the Group.
Pursuant to the Takeovers Directive During the year, Group companies Equal opportunities Interim Implementation Regulations donated 236,000 2008: 215,000 The Company remains committed 2006, the Company is required to to various charities, 55,000 2008: to equality of opportunity in all of its disclose whether there are any significant employment practices, policies and 132,000 in the UK and Europe, agreements to which the Company is a procedures across the Group.
party that take effect, alter, or terminate within the framework of applicable law, we In 2008, 15,000 was also donated by the upon a change of control of the Company are committed, wherever practicable, to Groups Ghanaian construction business, following a takeover bid, and the effects achieving and maintaining a workforce which was disposed of in early 2009.
In of any such agreements.
qxp:Layout 1 17 3 10 09:14 Page 54 54 Directors Report: Governance Statutory, Regulatory and Other Formal Information continued Apart from a small number of borrowing prepare the financial statements on the management report, which is agreements, including the Override the going concern basis unless it is incorporated into the Directors' Report, Agreement dated 7 April 2009 between inappropriate to presume that the includes a fair review of the development the Company and various of its principal Company will continue in business.
and performance of the business creditors which was entered into as part and the position of the Company In preparing the Group financial of the debt restructuring referred to in and the undertakings included in statements, International Accounting the Introduction above and the the consolidation taken as a whole, Standard 1 requires that Directors: Group Financial Review on page 28, together with a description of the pursuant to which the Company borrows properly select and apply principal risks and uncertainties or is able to borrow money and which accounting policies: that they face.
could potentially be terminated by the present information, including This Report of the Directors was other party upon a change of control of accounting policies, in a manner that approved by the Board of Directors the Company, there are no significant provides relevant, reliable, comparable on 2 March 2010. contracts or agreements which take and understandable information: effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic Important events since the year end requirements in IFRSs are insufficient There have been no important events to enable users to understand the affecting the Company or any of impact of particular transactions, its subsidiary undertakings since other events and conditions on the James Jordan 31 December 2009. entity's financial position and financial Group Company Secretary performance: and and General Counsel Directors responsibilities statement make an assessment of the Company's Taylor Wimpey plc The Directors are responsible for preparing ability to continue as a going concern.
the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with The Directors are responsible for keeping applicable law and regulations.
adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company law requires the Directors Companys transactions and disclose to prepare financial statements for each with reasonable accuracy at any time financial year.
Under that law the Directors the financial position of the Company are required to prepare the Group financial and enable them to ensure that the statements in accordance with International financial statements comply with the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Companies Act 2006.
They are also as adopted by the European Union and responsible for safeguarding the assets Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have of the Company and hence for taking elected to prepare the parent company reasonable steps for the prevention and financial statements in accordance with detection of fraud and other irregularities.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The Directors are responsible for the Accounting Standards and applicable maintenance and integrity of the corporate law.
Under company law the Directors and financial information included on must not approve the accounts unless the companys Web site.
Legislation they are satisfied that they give a true in the United Kingdom governing and fair view of the state of affairs of the preparation and dissemination the Company and of the profit or loss of financial statements may differ of the Company for that period.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing the parent company financial Responsibility statement statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors confirm that to the best select suitable accounting policies of their knowledge: and then apply them consistently: the financial statements, prepared in make judgements and accounting accordance with the relevant financial estimates that are reasonable reporting framework, give a true and and prudent: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss state whether applicable UK Accounting of the Company and the undertakings Standards have been followed, subject included in the consolidation taken to any material departures disclosed as a whole: and and explained in the financial statements: and Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009
