Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 30 corporate governance Board of Directors Meet the Board www.
html 1 john hughes chAirmAN 2 3 Michael Tobin brian McarThur-MuscrofT chief execuTive Officer grOup fiNANce DirecTOr 1 John Hughes 2 3 Chairman John Hughes has more than 30 years experience leading complex, high technology businesses operating at a global level, including senior executive positions at Thales Group where he was latterly executive vice president and chief operating officer, responsible for an organisation with over 25,000 people, Lucent Technologies where his responsibilities included being president of its worldwide GSM and UMTS businesses and Hewlett-Packard responsibilities.
Mr Hughes has significant experience of managing growth companies, especially those supplying complex solutions and services to business customers, mergers and acquisitions, international channel expansion and development of leadership teams.
He has lived and worked in the USA and mainland Europe as well as the UK.
He is also non-executive chairman of Spectris plc and Intec Telecom Systems plc, non-executive deputy chairman of Parity Group plc and a member of the board of Chloride Group PLC.
He holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Mr Hughes chairs the Nominations Committee.
2Michael Tobin Chief Executive Officer Michael Tobin is the Chief Executive Officer of TelecityGroup.
Mr Tobin joined Redbus Interhouse in 2002 as sales and marketing director and became chief executive officer in 2003, leading the company through its integration with TeleCity, the subsequent acquisition of Globix in 2006 and the successful IPO of the Group in 2007.
He has more than 25 years experience in the telecommunications and technology sector.
Prior to TelecityGroup, he headed-up Fujitsus e-Commerce operations in Germany and before that ran ICLs Danish outsourcing subsidiary out of Copenhagen.
He has also held senior positions based in Paris for over 11 years including International Computer Group and Tricord Systems Europe, and was formerly managing director of Goupil UK.
Mr Tobin is chairman of the Friends of The Loomba Trust, a charity which provides education and aid for children of poor widows in India.
Mr Tobin is also a board member of Byte Night which raises money for the charity Action for Children.
He is also a non-executive director of Think London, the London Development Agency funded organisation for inward investment into the capital.
In 2009, Mr Tobins business and sector leadership was recognised with the following awards: Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year, London Regional winner 2009, techMARK Personality of the Year 2009 and Industry Leader of the Year 2009 at the Datacentre Dynamics Leaders' Awards.
3Brian McArthur-Muscroft Group Finance Director Brian McArthur-Muscroft is responsible for financial strategy, policies, reporting, planning and control for the Group.
Mr McArthur-Muscroft has over 25 years experience dealing with financial strategy, with the last 15 of these specialising in the telecommunications and technology sector.
Prior to joining the Group, he was group finance director of Viatel, a pan-European communications business, Eckoh Technologies plc, 1 TCY ar09 front.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 31 4 siMon baTeY SeNiOr iNDepeNDeNT NON-execuTive DirecTOr 5 6 roberT Morse john oreillY NON-iNDepeNDeNT NON-execuTive DirecTOr iNDepeNDeNT NON-execuTive DirecTOr a UK-listed telecommunications and technology group, and Cable and Wireless HKT Multimedia.
He was also director of risk management for Cable and Wireless Asia.
Mr McArthur-Muscroft qualified as a Chartered Accountant FCA with  in London, specialising in business restructuring and turnaround assignments, and holds a law degree.
4 Simon Batey 1 2 3 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Simon Batey has 20 years experience in a number of senior finance roles in industry.
Between 2000 and 2006, Mr Batey was group finance director of United Utilities plc and, from 2006 until 2007, he was chief financial officer of Thames Water Utilities Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, he worked for AMEC plc, initially as deputy group finance director and then, from 1992, as group finance director.
Mr Batey has been a non-executive director of Arriva plc since October 2003 and has also served as a non-executive director of THUS Group plc.
Mr Batey has an MA in Geography from Oxford University and is a qualified Chartered Accountant, having spent the first 12 years of his career at Armitage and Norton now part of KPMG, latterly as a partner in the firm.
Mr Batey chairs the Audit Committee, and is the Companys Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
5Robert Morse 1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Robert Morse is a partner of Oak Hill Capital Management and has been with the firm since 2001.
Mr Morse is responsible for the firms technology investments.
Prior to joining Oak Hill, Mr Morse worked at GCC Investments, a growth private equity firm and at Morgan Stanley.
Mr Morse earned a BSE degree, summa cum laude, from Princeton University and a MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business, where he was an Arjay Miller Scholar.
6John OReilly 1 2 3 Independent Non-Executive Director John OReilly is managing director of Remote Betting and Gaming at Ladbrokes.
Mr OReilly joined the board of Ladbrokes following the completion of the sale of the Hilton International hotels division in February 2006.
He has led the Ladbrokes eGaming Division since its establishment in 2002.
Mr OReilly has responsibility for international development, including Ladbrokes growing retail joint venture in Spain, and oversees Ladbrokes core bookmaking function.
Since joining Ladbrokes, he has held senior responsibility within the company for marketing, public relations, public affairs, property and business development.
He is a director and vice chair of The Remote Gambling Association.
He holds a First Class honours degree in Business.
Mr OReilly chairs the Remuneration Committee.
1 member of the Audit committee 2 member of the remuneration committee 3 member of the Nominations committee 1 TCY ar09 front.
