Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 32 Corporate governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the Financial Statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009. Business Review A review of the development of the Groups business during the year and future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review which should be read in conjunction with this report.
The information which comprises the Business Review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act may be found in these statements on pages 9 to 17 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 18 to 29 and forms part of the Directors Report.
Principal activity The Group is the leading pan-European provider of network independent data centres offering a range of flexible, scalable data centre services, and value added services which include security, storage, messaging, disaster recovery, monitoring, application, and database management services Value added Services.
Results and dividends The results for the year ended 31 December 2009 are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 47.
The Directors do not propose a dividend in respect of the year 2008: nil.
Share capital The Companys share capital at the year end comprised entirely ordinary shares which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Act: or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FSAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 26.
The Company operates employee share plans.
In relation to the Telecity Group plc IPO Share Option Plan described in the Directors Remuneration Report and share option grants made before the IPO of the Company, an employee benefit trust EBT holds shares pending employees becoming entitled to them.
2,452,426 shares were so held as at 31 December 2009.
The EBT has an independent trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
Any dividends on shares held in the EBT have been waived.
Save as described above, shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Details of the Groups share schemes are set out in note 27 and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Issue and purchase of own shares At the year end, the Directors had authority to issue ordinary shares in the Company of 0.002 each up to a maximum number of 66,030,500 shares subject to certain restrictions.
The Company shall seek to renew this authority at the 2010 Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the year end the Company had an unexpired authority for the purposes of Section 701 of the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of the ordinary shares of 0.002 each in the capital of the Company up to a maximum number of 19,809,237 shares.
The Company shall seek to renew this authority at the 2010 AGM.
Change of control In the event of a takeover, a scheme of arrangement other than a scheme of arrangement for the purposes of creating a new holding company or certain other events, unvested options may in certain circumstances become exercisable.
Such circumstances depend on the achievement of performance conditions or the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Group has facility agreements with its bank lenders which contain provisions giving those lenders certain rights on a change of control of the Company.
Directors The Directors names and biographical details of the current Directors are set out on pages 30 and 31.
Both Sergei Riabtsov and Ian Nolan also served on the Board during the financial year until their resignations on 5 November 2009 and 23 December 2009 respectively.
The Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests known to the Company of their connected persons are set out below and the Directors interests in options over the ordinary shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44.
31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Number Number of shares of shares John Hughes 62,000 62,000 Michael Tobin 709,553 1,317,553 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 503,634 691,415 Simon Batey 22,727 22,727 Robert Morse John OReilly 9,091 9,091 1 TCY ar09 back.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Corporate governance 33 Directors continued There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons between 31 December 2009 and the date of this report.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities that they may incur in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries, which remain in force at the date of this report.
At the forthcoming AGM, John Hughes, Brian McArthur-Muscroft and John OReilly retire by rotation under the Companys Articles of Association or to assist in the phasing of the re-election of Directors and are being proposed for re-appointment.
The Chairman confirms that Brian McArthur-Muscroft and John OReilly have the skills, knowledge and experience that enable them to properly discharge their duties and contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Nominations Committee, and having taken account of the results of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Directors, recommends their re-appointment.
No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares disclosed above, and their interests under their terms of employment or appointment and in share options disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors of the Company are appointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles of Association.
The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Substantial shareholdings At 9 February 2010, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority, or was aware, that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys ordinary shares at that date: Number Total voting of shares rights 1 3i 32,719,998 16.52% 2 Oak Hill 32,719,997 16.52% Butterfield Trust 14,421,598 7.28% Norges Bank 10,318,523 5.22% Fidelity 7,108,999 3.59% Coatue Capital LLC 6,685,618 3.38% 1 Ordinary shares are held by 3i Group plc and by a corporate nominee for 3i Pan European Buy-Outs 2004-06 LP.
2 Ordinary shares are held by the following Oak Hill companies: Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman, L. P. OHSOF Offshore I L. P. OHSOF Offshore II L. P. Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman II, L. P. OHSOF Offshore III L. P. Oak Hill Capital Management Partners II Cayman, L. P. Financial instruments Information on the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and details of the Groups exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are set out in note 3.
Payment of suppliers The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to set terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
The year end Group trade creditors balance represented 108 days of purchases 2008: 99.
The creditor days figure is not representative of the Groups underlying payment terms with suppliers due to the inclusion of 20.3m 2008: 11.1m of capital creditors in the year end balance.
Adjusting for these capital creditors reduces the creditor days for the current year to 27 2008: 39.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at 31 December 2009 2008: nil.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in cash amounting to 81,000 2008: 52,000.
The principal charities supported by the Group during the year are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 28 to 29.
The Group made no political donations during the year 2008: nil.
Employment The Groups employee and employment policies are detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 24 to 25.
2010 AGM The Companys AGM will be held at the offices of Lovells LLP, Atlantic House, Holborn Viaduct, London EC1A 2FG at 2pm on 1 April 2010.
An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, and recommendation of Directors in relation to these, is included on pages 77 and 78.
indd 2 22 02 2010 09:56:12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 34 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group Financial Statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Financial Statements are also required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies and apply them consistently: I make judgements that are reasonable and prudent: I present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and I understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users I to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, I give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Business Review on pages 9 to 17 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the I position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Auditors  LLP, the Group auditors, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, a resolution to re-appoint them will be put to the 2010 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each Director in office at the date of this report has confirmed that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and I he has taken all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant I audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given in accordance with Section 418 2 of the Act.
On behalf of the Board Tony Hunter Company Secretary 9 February 2010 1 TCY ar09 back.
