Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 24 corporate governance Workplace Corporate Social Responsibility continued The people who work for Health, safety and wellbeing Key achievements in 2009 TelecityGroup are responsible The Company is committed to for making the Company a providing a safe and healthy I Enhanced Group-wide respected leader in the market.
environment for employees, From engineers to customer contractors and anyone else induction programme relationship managers, all play who visits TelecityGroups a vital role in delivering business sites.
Each site has a I Development of on-line success.
Over 420 people are comprehensive health and employed across the Group and safety management system appraisal system the Company has a responsibility that meets or exceeds legal to provide each one of them with and regulatory requirements I Ongoing employee training opportunities to learn, develop in the region it operates in.
and development and achieve their potential.
Management systems are underpinned by established Our approach external standards, and the I Introduction of employee TelecityGroup's long-standing Company is planning to embed on-line newsletter strategic priorities are: this further in 2010 to attain formal OHSAS 18001 Health health, safety and wellbeing and Safety certification.
I providing a healthy and safe environment across The Board oversees health and Going forward all sites: safety issues for the Group and they are supported in this task Looking to 2010, the Group plans to focus training and development by a Group Health and Safety I on the following areas: developing highly skilled Manager.
Operations or Facilities employees in all areas of Managers have day-to-day I Roll-out of new Group the business: responsibility for health and induction programme safety within their respective performance management sites.
Health and safety risks I recruiting, rewarding are identified as part of the I Embedding new on-line appraisal and developing the very Group risk management process system across the Group best talent.
Providing and KPIs are reviewed during career development regular Board meetings.
I Roll-out new management opportunities and regular performance monitoring: The Company conducts annual training programme internal audits and uses communicating with independent experts to I employees providing guiding conduct regular external principles on business conduct audits to check compliance and ethics.
Promoting clear with regulations and standards.
and direct communications The audits help to identify with colleagues: and development areas and the results are used to drive equal opportunities and action plans for continuous I diversity fostering a culture improvement.
where employees are able to reach their full potential.
Training and development Training and development The Group has a comprehensive is a priority for the Group set of workplace policies covering as the quality of customer issues ranging from equal service relies on highly skilled opportunities and grievances to engineers and passionate flexible working and appraisals.
Workplace issues, including KPIs, are reported to the Board every month.
"com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 25 "" TelecityGroup encourages employees to be proactive in developing their careers and offers guidance and support to help them achieve their goals. """
Testing and regular maintenance is key in mission critical data centre environments.
TelecityGroup employees have Rewarding talent is important access to training opportunities if the Group is to continue throughout their career.
This attracting and retaining the year, there has been a focus best people.
As well as offering on enhancing the Group-wide a competitive remuneration and induction programme so that benefits package, employees new employees have a better can own shares in the Company understanding of the Company, through the award-winning and how they can contribute Group share scheme.
Other to the Groups success.
available employee benefits include free mortgage advice, Employees are encouraged to season ticket loans for travel be proactive in developing their to work, a tax-free childcare careers and the Company offers voucher scheme and discounted guidance and support to help home computer software them achieve their goals.
The monthly example of this is the Corporate employee award scheme, Sponsorship Scheme, which recognising employees who offers employees financial have demonstrated outstanding assistance and time off work customer service, teamwork to pursue a relevant professional or innovation, continues to qualification.
Training is not be incredibly popular.
limited to any particular channel.
In some cases there Communicating with employees is no substitute for on-the-job The Group Employee Handbook training, enabling employees provides guidance on ethical to learn from experienced standards of behaviour at colleagues.
It sets out the Groups external training opportunities core values and standards are more appropriate.
in professional and personal conduct.
There is also a Performance management whistle-blowing policy enabling The Company's focus on employees to confidentially performance management report concerns about identifies opportunities for unethical behaviour.
personal and professional development as well as This year the Group developed helping to recognise and a new on-line employee reward talent.
newsletter to give employees an opportunity to share views, Employees are appraised at best practice and ideas across the end of their probationary the business.
period and then on an annual basis to discuss performance Equal opportunities and identify development and diversity opportunities.
In 2009, we The Groups equal opportunities re-developed the appraisal policy sets out the Companys system, moving it on-line commitment to treating all to enhance the process.
employees and potential employees fairly, regardless of race, gender, age, sexual orientation, disability or religious and political beliefs.
