Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 26 corporate governance Marketplace Corporate Social Responsibility continued TelecityGroup aims to treat External accreditation Key achievements in 2009 its customers and suppliers and certification with respect and fairness, An important element of the I Achieved Quality Management and and seeks to engage actively Groups approach to meet with all stakeholders in the these aspirations is to attain Information Security Management digital economy.
certification against external certification across all sites standards relevant to the The Company recognises from business.
The Company has the annual customer survey obtained ISO 9001:2008 I Maintained ongoing customer and regular customer reviews Quality Management feedback and monitoring on service and satisfaction that certification and ISO their most important concern 27001:2005 Information I Improved engagement with is the energy efficiency of data Security Management centres.
In response, the Group certification across all of customers and suppliers on is developing an ongoing the sites in Europe except energy efficiency communications programme to Stockholm 2 for ISO 27001, educate and inform customers where certification is targeted about developments in the for 2010 following completion industry and how TelecityGroup of the current build phase.
is responding to and leading The Group is also working Going forward on these initiatives.
towards the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management Looking to 2010, the Group aims to further improve Our approach standard for all sites.
performance in the following areas: The underlying principles which inform the Group's approach The UK data centres are audited I Further embed formal Health and to these issues are: by the Centre for the Protection for Critical National Infrastructure Safety Management System to a recognition of the 'CPNI'.
The Group takes advice I achieve OHSAS 18001 certification Companys responsibilities from the CPNI on how to reduce as a leading provider of the vulnerability of its data across all sites data centre services: centres to serious threats in order to maintain the integrity I Systematically monitor relationships while there are environmental of one of the UKs essential I with customers through satisfaction challenges related to the infrastructure services.
nature of the industry, there surveys and feedback procedures are also macro benefits in TelecityGroup is also a Microsoft at sites across Europe the digital economy and the Gold Partner and has been growth in on-line activities: recognised for Advanced Infrastructure Solutions and I Continue to engage with suppliers TelecityGroup is able to Networking Infrastructure I and encourage them to adopt the manage the environmental Solutions.
In addition, the impacts of this shift better Company was the first UK new Suppliers Code of Conduct than our customers our data centre provider to achieve data centres are highly Payment Card Industry Data efficient and we can offer Security Standard 'PCI DSS' and achieve economies certification, the standard of scale: and developed by Visa and MasterCard.
This standard the aim to provide the has also now been applied I most efficient data centres to the data centres in in the industry.
As a result, all TelecityGroup customers who store credit card details, customer information and transactional data have the 1 TCY ar09 front.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 27 induStRy leadeRShip and accReditationS For more details on our memberships and accreditations visit www.
"htm guarantee that procedures and seeks to engage with "" TelecityGroup is developing comply with the 12-step stakeholders throughout the security standard outlined sector on issues which affect an ongoing communications by the leading card issuers."
the industry and its customers.
programme to educate and Supplier relations The Group is a patron of the It is important that the European Internet Exchange inform customers about companies who TelecityGroup Association 'Euro-IX' whose developments in the industry work with adhere to the same role is to exchange ideas and high standards that are set for discuss the latest technical, and how TelecityGroup is the business itself.
This year commercial and regulatory the Company has developed issues affecting internet traffic.
"responding to and leading a Suppliers Code of Conduct In addition, the Company is a that will be distributed to all member of the Internet Watch on these initiatives. """
The code Foundation 'IWF' which exists covers key areas including to facilitate the removal of environmental standards, potentially illegal on-line health and safety, data content from the internet.
security, labour standards, equal opportunities and Recognising the growing business conduct.
During customer base in the film the next 12 months the and entertainment sector, the Company will seek to engage Group is also a member of the with key suppliers on processes Federation Against Copyright for ensuring adherence to the Theft 'FACT'.
FACT is the principles set out in the Code leading representative trade of Conduct.
body that is committed to protecting the interests of the Industry leadership audio-visual industry in the TelecityGroup is a leading fight against pirate film and member of the industrys DVDs and the increasing most important associations threat from on-line piracy.
Data centre tours are an important part of the sales process.
indd 27 22 02 2010 09:38:59 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 28 corporate governance C ommunity Corporate Social Responsibility continued TelecityGroup wants to be France purchased 1,000 tickets Key achievements in 2009 a part of the communities in for local families to visit the which the Company operates.
renowned science museum I Employee involvement in One of the main ways this La Cit des Sciences et fide is achieved is by providing lIndustrie in Paris.
Employees fundraising and volunteering employment opportunities also volunteered their time to activities across the Group in the towns and cities where assist with activities on the day.
However, the Company seeks In Sweden, TelecityGroup I Continued financial and in-kind to go beyond this by offering purchased office supplies from support for a range of charities financial and in-kind support ECPAT, an organisation that to many charities and actively uses its profits to eliminate child and community groups encourage employees to prostitution, child pornography participate in fundraising and the trafficking of children.
I Promoted responsible behaviour and community activities.
with internet communities In 2009, the Group donated Our approach 95,000 overall to various through membership of industry The Group focuses its community charities and community groups such as Internet Watch investment activities on providing groups.
This included both education and opportunities for cash donations and in-kind Foundation 'IWF' and Federation disadvantaged children and young donations.
The main Against Copyright Theft 'FACT' people in local and international organisations the Company communities.
The nature of the supported are featured below.
business means the Company also seeks to promote Association Charles Bellaigue responsible behaviour within Association Charles fide Bellaigue Going forward internet communities.
is a charitable organisation which funds and supports schools In 2010 TelecityGroup plans to: Employees across the Group improvement, education and have been involved in a the provision of teaching I Further promote employee number of fundraising and materials in Benin, Africa.
community involvement activities volunteering activities over the last 12 months, including Byte The Princes Trust and continue to provide financial Nights annual sleep out the The Princes Trust is a youth and in-kind support to charitable board of which Michael Tobin charity that helps change young is a member for Action for lives.
It gives practical and and community organisations Children and The Princes Trust financial support, developing 'Palace to Palace' bike ride.
key workplace skills such as I Maintain and strengthen confidence and motivation.
TelecityGroup France supported The charity works with 14 engagement with internet the Aubervilliers Town Hall Social to 30-year olds who have communities through membership Solidarity Day for Christmas, a struggled at school, have local community initiative which been in care, are long-term of industry groups provides cultural opportunities unemployed or have been for children from disadvantaged in trouble with the law.
TelecityGroup From left to right The TelecityGroup team prepares for its 'Palace to Palace' fundraising cycling event in London for the Princes Trust: children in India benefiting from the Loomba Trust educational fund: sleepers at the annual Byte Night sleepout.
com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 corporate governance 29 chaRitable woRk For more details on the charities we work with visit www.
htm Children in Benin benefited from TelecityGroups school-building project.
Policy in practice TElEcITygroup francE suPPorting children In BEnIn.
In 2009, TelecityGroup France worked with the Association Charles Bellaigue to fund and build two classrooms in a school in Benin.
The Association Charles Bellaigue provides educational support for children in Benin through setting up schools and libraries.
A team from TelecityGroup France visited the school in West Africa, where they worked with members of Association Charles Bellaigue to distribute supplies, monitor the progress of local community projects, teach children and help with construction work.
The visit enabled TelecityGroup France to experience first-hand the impact of their funding on this remote community.
The Loomba Trust Byte Night The objectives of the Loomba Byte Night is the IT industrys Trust are to promote the welfare annual sleep out in support and education of children of of Action for Children.
Over poor widows, orphaned children 700 people from the IT and and also children who have business community around lost their mothers as a result the UK give up their bed for of natural disaster and for one night in October, to be other auxiliary purposes.
The exposed to the elements and Loomba Trust now has many to experience a little of what it sister charities helping widows might be like to be homeless.
who are suffering with poverty, The money raised helps Action prejudice and discrimination for Children tackle the root around the world.
Action for Children Action for Children supports and speaks out for the UKs most vulnerable children and young people.
They help nearly 156,000 children, young people and their families through nearly 420 projects across the UK and aim to promote social justice by lobbying and campaigning for change.
