Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 www.
com 06 Business and financial review Quality TelecityGroup is committed to delivering value and operational excellence for all customers.
Dedicated and experienced people provide 24x7 engineering support and a range of value added services.
A commitment to quality Awards and accreditations At the heart of our business are reliable, secure, resilient and highly connected data centres, coupled with a range of services provided by dedicated and experienced staff.
To this end, the Company invests heavily in its frontline engineering services staff: over 80% of employees are in customer facing roles and their primary concern is the delivery and support of customers business-critical data centre services.
These experienced and responsive employees are available 24x7 to deal with all customer requests ranging from implementation and provisioning, through to maintenance and support.
For more details on these and other awards visit www.
htm Environmental leadership As a data centre operator we recognise that our main environmental impact comes from the power we use to run our facilities.
In order to reduce our energy consumption and cut carbon emissions, we use innovative technologies that dramatically improve the efficiency of data centre power and cooling.
We were the first carrier neutral data centre operator to sign up to the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centres and are members of the Green Grid.
For more on our Environmental policy see pages 20 to 23.
Above left A TelecityGroup consultant discusses infrastructure designs with customers.
Above right An engineer tests equipment.
"com Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Business and financial review 07 Attention 24x7: a TelecityGroup network operation centre. """
The Team aT TeleciTyGroup has really seT iTself aparT from The resT.
"We Would hiGhly recommend Them To anyone looking for a parTner in europe. """
douglas J. erwin Chairman and Chief executive officer, The planet The highest standards Certifications include: and accreditations I ISO 27001:2005 for information security management TelecityGroup adheres to the highest standards I ISO 9001:2008 for business quality management of industry practice and has earned a range of I Microsoft Gold Partner recognised for Advanced accreditations for its data centres.
Infrastructure Solutions Our commitment to ensuring best practice I Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard in protecting information assets and quality 'PCI DSS' management is underlined by our adherence I Audited by the Centre for the Protection to the highest international standards, including of Critical National Infrastructure 'CPNI' ISO standards for security and quality management.
