OUR SERVICES Trading as the Utility Warehouse, Telecom plus PLC provides a range of essential services to households and small to medium-sized businesses, giving customers the convenience of a single monthly bill and substantial savings on the cost of their utilities.
Most customers are members of our Discount Club, giving them access to a wide range of exclusive additional benefits.
The Company works in partnership with over 27,000 independent Distributors who attract new customers by personal recommendation, thus avoiding the need for expensive national advertising.
Distributors receive a revenue share from each customer they introduce, which encourages them to focus on gathering creditworthy customers who take multiple services from us.
These customers are able to benefit from unlimited free calls to landlines in the UK and our most popular international destinations, in addition to the savings they make on the individual services they have taken.
HOME PHONE Our fixed-line domestic telephony service gives members significant savings on both call charges and line rental compared with BTs best prices, and allows them to make unlimited free local and national calls to other members 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
This service is provided using either Carrier Pre-Selection, or by sending members a free Smart Box which they plug into their telephone socket, automatically routing all of their calls to us.
INTERNET PHONE LINE A service offering customers with a broadband connection the option of extra phone lines at an extremely competitive price.
It also provides them with the ability to take their home phone number with them when they are staying at a second home, even overseas.
MOBILE PHONE With a range of tariff options to suit a wide cross-section of mobile phone users, our mobile phone service offers outstanding value and great savings including the UKs cheapest monthly line rental, unique loyalty bonus, a choice of free handsets and free connection.
GAS AND ELECTRICITY We provide consistently low prices to our members, with guaranteed savings for domestic customers compared with the electricity prices charged by their incumbent regional electricity supply company and gas prices charged by British Gas.
BROADBAND A choice of high-quality low-cost Internet services offering great value for the vast majority of domestic Internet users.
FREEPHONE A low-cost Freephone service at a significant discount to the prices charged by BT, particularly for domestic customers.
2 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS The Utility Warehouse Discount Club Free calls to UK and international numbers Exclusive CashBack card Cheaper gas and electricity Guaranteed savings compared to BT Freephone internet technical support Freephone customer services Exclusive membership discount booklet Free redundancy protection Free accidental death cover Club membership starts at just 1.50 per month ex VAT The Utility Warehouse Discount Club for Business Office Phone: our fixed-line telephony service offering substantial savings on call charges and line rental Office Mobile: a range of attractive tariffs with line rental from 5 a month and low call charges Broadband: competitive prices for small and medium-sized businesses, with free anti-virus and anti-spam protection Energy: no minimum contract term and competitive prices on gas and electricity Non-Geographic Numbers: free set-up, no minimum contract term and a wide choice of different services Freephone 0800, Basic Rate 0844 0845 and Higher Rate 0871 Home Phone Mobile Internet Gas Electricity 3 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
