DIRECTORS, SECRETARY AND ADVISERS Peter Nutting, Andrew Lindsay MBE, Non-Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer Peter, aged 73, is a former Andrew, aged 32, joined the stockbroker and investment Company in April 2007 and banker who has been a was appointed to the Board in director and Chairman of a November 2008.
Before number of publicly listed and joining Telecom plus, Andrew private companies.
He was was Managing Director of a member of the Council of Lloyds between 1990 and Ryness, an electrical retail chain based in London in 1998 and Deputy-Chairman of the Lloyds Regulatory which he has a significant equity stake after performing Board from 1992 to 1995.
He joined the Company a Management Buyout in 2006.
Prior to buying Ryness, in April 1997. he spent three years as an analyst in the UK Mergers & Acquisitions team at Goldman Sachs.
Andrew rowed for Great Britain at the Sydney Olympic Games in 2000, The Hon.
Charles Wigoder, where he won a Gold medal.
Chief Executive Charles, aged 49, qualified Melvin Lawson, as a Chartered Accountant Non-Executive Director with KPMG in 1984 and Melvin, aged 50, is the was subsequently employed Managing Director of by Kleinwort Securities as an A Beckman PLC, a company investment analyst in the formerly listed on the London media and communication sectors.
Between 1985 Stock Exchange which was and 1988, he was head of corporate finance and taken private in 1995, a development at Carlton Communications Plc and then director of Catalyst Media Group PLC and a number Quadrant Group plc.
In March 1988, he left of other companies with a wide range of investment Quadrant Group to set up The Peoples Phone interests.
He joined the Company in September 2006.
Company plc, which was subsequently purchased by Vodafone in December 1996.
He joined the Company in February 1998.
Richard Michell, Non-Executive Director Chris Houghton, Richard, aged 63, is a Fellow Finance Director and of the Chartered Institute of Company Secretary Management Accountants.
From 1988 to 1996 he was Chris, aged 30, qualified as a Treasurer of Sony Broadcast Chartered Accountant with and Communication Limited, a  in subsidiary of Sony Corporation of Japan.
Whilst there, he 1988 he was Finance Manager and Company Secretary gained experience in their for Geosource UK Limited, a subsidiary of Geosource Inc, Telecoms, Information, Communications, Entertainment a leading US oil exploration company.
He joined the and Energy team.
Subsequently, he worked within the Company in April 1997 as Finance Director.
He is Chief Consumer Products Team of the Corporate Finance Financial Officer of Minera IRL Ltd.
He became a Nondepartment, where he completed a two year Executive Director in September 2005. secondment at The UK Takeover Panel.
He joined the Company in September 2008 and was appointed Finance Director and Company Secretary in February 2009.
4 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS COMPANY NUMBER Michael Pavia, Non-Executive Director 3263464 Michael, aged 62, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered REGISTERED OFFICE Accountants in England and Dryden House, Wales ICAEW, and has The Edge Business Centre, significant experience of the Humber Road, energy industry, having served London NW2 6EW on the Boards of LASMO, SEEBOARD and London Electricity.
He is currently a non-executive director of Thames Water and Salamander Energy PLC, and is a SECRETARY member of the Council of the ICAEW.
He joined the Chris Houghton C. A.
Company in December 2006 as an independent nonexecutive director and meets the test of independence STOCKBROKER under the Combined Code.
KBC Peel Hunt Ltd 111 Old Broad Street, Keith Stella, London EC2N 1PH Senior Non-Executive Director SOLICITORS Keith, aged 54, is a practising Nabarro LLP solicitor and corporate finance Lacon House, partner with Berwin Leighton Theobalds Road, Paisner LLP and has over 30 London WC1X 8RW years experience in a broad range of work in the company and corporate finance arena, handling flotations, fide-mergers, acquisitions and AUDITORS disposals for a variety of clients, ranging from FTSE 100 PKF UK LLP companies to family run businesses, and advising the Farringdon Place, boards of listed and AIM companies extensively on their 20 Farringdon Road, regulatory and legal obligations.
He joined the London EC1M 3AP Company in July 2000 as an independent non-executive director and continues to meet the test of independence BANKERS under the Combined Code.
Barclays Bank plc 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP REGISTRARS Capita Registrars The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU 5 TELECOM PLUS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
