RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 20 6m Tesco Personal Finance customer accounts Andrew Higginson Chief Executive of Retailing Services and Group Strategy Director Can Tesco really offer the same value as my bank?
We believe in creating value for all our customers because that is how we earn their loyalty.
Over time customers have come to trust Tesco to deliver value whether they are buying their weekly shop or opening a savings account.
Their trust is very important to us.
So we take the same approach to financial services as we do to all other parts of our business and that means offering competitive, straightforward products with no confusing small print and hidden charges.
Unlike many of the high street banks TPF is well funded we never got involved in any of the complicated financial products and toxic debt that has caused so many problems for the banking sector.
So while many banks now have to grow their margins and rebuild their balance sheets, we can concentrate on offering competitive rates across our savings, loans, credit cards and insurance products.
We are aiming to add more value by rewarding our loyal customers with Clubcard points, which is of course unique to Tesco.
Looking further ahead, its clear that customers want us to provide a real alternative to other banks and that means a broader product range, including a current account.
RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 21 Retailing Services It has been a big year for Retailing Services, which includes our online shopping channels, tesco.
com and Tesco Direct: Telecoms: Tesco Personal Finance TPF and dunnhumby our consumer research business.
Developing Retailing services has been part of our strategy for over a decade with the aim of bringing value and simplicity to customers through services such as telecoms and financial products.
after ten years of success, we have given it a renewed focus and in July we announced that andrew Higginson would relinquish his role as group Finance Director to take on the role of chief executive of Retailing services.
He has assembled an experienced team to really drive forward this part of the strategy, which we believe has the potential to deliver 1 billion of annual profit in the next few years.
the aim is to develop our services business to offer customers the same convenience we have brought to food shopping, to all the other products and services we offer.
our dotcom grocery business and now our online non-food offer, tesco Direct, have already added more tesco.
com convenient options for customers to shop particularly those with is the worlds most successful very busy lives or limited access to transport.
the growing power of the internet means increasingly that people look to this channel to online grocery retailer.
buy everyday services and goods.
However, many people still like the reassurance of being able to talk to someone knowledgeable about the products and services they buy.
in December we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% We believe in offering customers the choice to shop in the way which of tpF from Royal Bank of scotland group plc RBsg.
this was an most suits their needs whether that is online, in store or by phone.
important move for tesco, allowing us to build on the success of tpF that is why we now have 40 phone shops in our stores, and we plan and eventually offer customers the products you would expect from to have around 100 open by the end of this year.
this means more a full-service retail bank.
this will mean growing our existing customer customers than ever can access our popular telecoms offer.
We remain base across the 28 simple products we offer from home insurance to one of the fastest growing providers for pre-pay mobiles and we are credit cards, but also attracting new customers at a time when many now attracting more customers through our new contract mobile deals.
have lost trust in their high street bank.
all our current financial products are available to buy online and at present over 50% of our customers choose to buy this way.
However, in the same way as customers value the service offered by our telecoms centres, we understand that many would like to discuss their financial needs with someone knowledgeable.
We plan to increase our presence for tpF by extending the trial of our in-store branches which offer customers the opportunity to talk to our specially trained finance advisors in a convenient location.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 22 Retailing Services continued this year has seen an increased focus on our strategy for growth in Retailing services profit contribution retailing services where we now have substantial, profitable businesses with long-term potential both in the UK and internationally.
at the time of our announcement last July of our acquisition from RBsg of its Tesco Personal Finance 50% shareholding in tpF, we set a target to grow the profitability of 10% the services businesses from a little under 400 million in 2007 8 to tesco.
com 1 billion during the next few years.
We are committing more capital, 15% management and other resources to support this growth.
We completed the acquisition of tpF on 19 December 2008, for cash consideration of around 950m.
the dunnhumby 25% business is profitable and well-capitalised, which is a strong platform from which to pursue our plans to develop tpF from a successful, popular collection of financial products to a full-service retail bank in the years ahead.
the new team, combining experienced management 50% from tesco and from the banking industry, is coming together well.
their focus for the time being is on migrating systems and customer support over to our own platforms, beginning the development of assumes tpF is fully consolidated for the year.
a branch network in tesco stores and growing the business, both through existing and new products.
overall tpF has delivered a good performance, despite the challenging conditions in its markets and the protracted period between the announcement of the acquisition and its completion.
the following commentary on the performance of the business relates to the tpF pro-forma income statement and actual balance sheet, which can be found in our preliminary Results statement appendix 1 at www.
com investorcentre, covering the year to 28 February 2009.
Underlying profit before tax, which excludes the amortisation of intangible assets linked to the acquisition, was 244 million.
this performance was achieved against the background of an increase in bad debts, particularly during the second half of the year, although tpFs bad debt experience remains significantly better than the banking industry average.
profit before tax and minority interest was 212 million, which was also a pleasing performance in the context of the broader economic conditions.
Under iFRs, we are required to amortise intangible assets arising on acquisition.
this non-cash charge for the period was 32 million and we expect this to increase to approximately 130 million in 2009 10 and reduce thereafter.
total revenue was 949 million generated by a combination of interest income and fees.
the key products generating interest income 1.5m savings, loans and credit cards all held up well in the current climate.
Tesco Personal Finance has over 1.5 million in fee income, there was good growth from both credit cards and the car and home insurance customers.
Underlying costs included an increased investment in tesco compare and the planned rise in overhead cost as the business prepares for a faster rate of growth.
impairment losses on the cards and loans portfolios increased in the second half against the background of deteriorating market conditions.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 23 To find out more go to www.
tpFs core tier 1 capital ratio is 12%.
looking Telecoms had a good year, with particularly robust growth in tesco forward, tpF has strong earnings retention to support planned mobile.
mobile saw double-digit growth in customer numbers in a flat business growth and the funding and liquidity position of the business pre-pay phone market and an encouraging early performance from our has also improved as a result of the successful re-launch of tpF as a new pay-monthly tariffs, which were launched during the year.
this is demonstrated by the near-doubling of balances mobile retained its status as the best service in the market for overall from 2.5 billion in mid-october to in excess of 4.5 billion by the customer satisfaction.
combined with securing long-term wholesale funding, this has transformed tpFs liquidity position providing high quality liquid assets and net short-term wholesale cash over 2 billion as at year-end.
average lending balances grew slightly in the year, even after tightening lending criteria to reflect the deteriorating economic conditions.
good growth has been maintained in the customer base with total accounts and policies increasing by 8%.
the atm network continues to grow with over 2,700 now located across the tesco store portfolio, which account for 12% of total market volumes.
the insurance business continues to be a significant contributor to the overall profits, accounting for over 65% of the underlying profit.
new asset quality has remained stable over 2008 and portfolio performance remains favourable to the industry.
tpF continues to monitor closely portfolio and new business quality.
However, the challenging economic conditions throughout the year have resulted in some increase in bad debt levels and fraud.
the reduction in bank rates in recent months has, however, helped lending margins, a trend which has continued into 2009 10. tpF uses a range of techniques to ensure that risk and reward is 1.8m balanced and remains committed to responsible lending.
com delivered another excellent performance, with our online businesses achieving a 20% increase in sales to 1.9bn, with profits after initial start-up losses on tesco Direct, rising to 109m.
We are continuing to see robust growth in customer and order numbers and operationally the business made further progress, with improved product availability, and strong productivity.
growth in the international businesses in south Korea and ireland was very strong.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 24 250 Community Champions Lucy Neville-Rolfe Corporate & Legal Affairs Director How much do customers really care about community when they are struggling with the recession?
We understand that many of our customers are facing real financial pressures at the moment and theyre looking to us to help them spend less.
However, when customers shop with us they dont leave their ethics at the door and theyre telling us it is still really important to them that we behave responsibly and honestly.
They want to see Tesco doing the right things on community and the environment at the same time as providing them with the value they expect from us.
Weve made some great progress this year and one of the things Im most proud of is the work we have done in getting unemployed people back to work which is especially important in light of rising unemployment in the UK and elsewhere.
Last year we recruited over 3,000 long-term unemployed people and other disadvantaged job seekers, up on nearly 500 the previous year.
RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 25 Community We recognise that running our business responsibly is important to our customers and increasingly crucial to our growth.
We are working within communities to develop our own plans as well as involve customers in the journey.
own buildings and distribution networks and we continue to make good progress.
over the past year we have continued to roll-out initiatives to save energy and lower our carbon footprint in all our operations and we now have environmental stores in every country in which we operate.
since 2006 7 we have reduced our carbon intensity of new stores by 21%.
our aim is to give customers choice by providing them with the information they need to make informed decisions when they shop through initiatives such as carbon and guideline Daily amounts gDa labelling.
in addition we have continued to work hard to help our customers to lead healthy lifestyles by providing information and services such as tesco Diets, our online dieting, weight loss and healthy eating service, and improving nutritional content in all our foods.
We also continue to find innovative ways to help customers get active.
in thailand, for 500 example, our getting active with tesco lotus programme has inspired We will measure the carbon footprint 2.4 million people to get involved in activities such as aerobics.
of 500 more products this year.
to provide the best quality, choice and value for money for our customers we need strong and constructive relationships with our suppliers.
We continue to make good progress in building these long-term relationships as we recognise that our success is linked to theirs.
trading fairly is We understand the importance of behaving responsibly in all our operations.
over the past year, we have worked even harder to be essential in all our operations and last year we met with the UKsiF the sustainable investment and Finance association to discuss our ethical a good neighbour and have strengthened our contribution to the wider communities we serve.
they benchmarked us against a number of peers and concluded that we were in a leadership position in terms of good all communities have their own individual concerns and priorities factory labour standards.
and so each of our countries has its own community plan.
Whilst the goals and targets are tailored specifically to each country, each plan is underpinned by five core promises: actively supporting local communities: buying and selling our products responsibly: caring for the environment: giving customers healthy choices: and creating good jobs and careers.
our success depends on listening to our customers, and responding to their feedback by giving them what they want.
often the most significant contributions we can make to communities are at the truly local level and so over the past year we have appointed over 250 community champions in stores and depots across six countries.
these members of staff are dedicated to working with local schools, charities and services to support the causes that matter most to our customers.
We have made a step-change in our work on climate change and environmental responsibility by taking clear leadership in these vital 200 areas.
in 2007, we set ambitious targets to reduce emissions in our Our Greener Living brand helps our customers to make greener choices.
The range comprises 200 products as diverse as energy saving light bulbs, paper goods and kitchenware.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 26 Community continued Caring for the environment We opened our greenest store yet at cheetham Hill in manchester, with a carbon footprint 70% below that of a typical store in 2006. this is the latest step in our quest for a zero-carbon store, with environmental stores opening in all countries.
We have significantly increased the level of capital investment in energy-saving projects across the business in new refrigeration, store lobbies, and lighting delivering significant reductions in consumption and helping us to absorb rising utility costs.
energy consumption in tesco fell 8% last year despite business growth.
green clubcard points have encouraged our customers to recycle, with recycling rates doubling where we have our automated recycling machines and over 9.5 million clubcard customers now reusing their bags in the UK.
our customers are now using 50% fewer plastic bags than they did in may 2006, saving three billion bags since we introduced 2.4m our green clubcard points in august 2006. this July, tesco malaysia people in Thailand took part in activities including aerobics became the first country outside the UK to launch green clubcard as part of our Getting Active with Tesco Lotus programme.
points to help customers use fewer carrier bags, issuing over 14,000 points in the first week of the reward scheme.
We were the first retailer in the world to carbon label products, with 100 products labelled in the UK already, and many more in the pipeline.
Actively supporting our local communities ireland is following suit with 14 products, and south Korea is starting We play a positive role in our local communities and work hard to be carbon labelling this year.
our leadership on climate change has been recognised through a We now have community champions in 65 stores and five depots in the number of awards internationally, including the prestigious Business UK, each working with local schools, charities and services to support in the community leadership in the environment award, and the the causes that matter most to our customers, where they live.
the sustainable management award in south Korea.
champions have a strong positive impact on our customers.
in recent research over 60% of customers who are aware of these activities tell Giving customers healthy choices us they believe their community has benefited and they feel more We have met our target of getting two million people active three favourable to tesco as a result.
We are already rolling out community years early, with 750,000 women running Race for life, half a million champions in the czech Republic, slovakia, china and malaysia.
children signed up to the Fa skills programme and 750,000 taking part in the tesco great school Run.
our getting active with tesco lotus our staff broke all records for our charity of the Year, raising over programme has inspired 2.4 million people in thailand to take part in 6 million for marie curie cancer care to fund an additional activities such as aerobics, and we have charitable running and walking 300,000 hours of nursing care for over 5,000 terminally ill patients initiatives in the czech Republic, slovakia and malaysia as well as our and their families.
soccer camps in the UK and china.
our new tesco for schools and clubs scheme is now running in our UK Buying and selling our products responsibly stores.
With a catalogue spanning five different areas of the curriculum, We have continued to evolve our nurture scheme which was first customers can collect vouchers for anything their local school needs, launched in 1992. the independently accredited quality standard whether that is a laptop, a new set of skipping ropes or a composting assures our customers that tesco fruit and vegetables are grown bin.
We have had successful schools programmes in ireland for 11 years in an environmentally and ethically responsible way.
We now work now, in poland for eight, and this year is the first year of shop for with 15,000 growers in 70 countries across the world.
Good jobs and careers in recent months, we have also moved some 11 million worth of as part of our promise to our people to provide an opportunity to get business back to UK suppliers, supporting domestic orderbooks and on, during the year 65% of senior managers were appointed internally.
We also appointed 3,741 new managers for stores and 149 for depots in the UK alone with 86% coming from within tesco.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 27 To find out more go to www.
com cr-report09 Sustainable Consumption Institute We will make Community Champions a stronger part of more stores in 2007, we committed 25 million to create a new sustainable consumption institute sci at the University of manchester.
the sci aims to answer some of the fundamental questions We will aim to get 5.3 million people active with Tesco activity about how to make a consumer society sustainable.
2008, the first year of the sci, was devoted to building a team We will continue to help customers be green and save money, through more recycling facilities and by reducing plastic bag usage and establishing the initial research streams.
a total of 12 academic appointments have now been made, including five at professorial even further.
We will also work with our suppliers to reduce carbon emissions in our supply chain.
11 phD students from around the world have been recruited and 2.3 million committed to 24 projects so far.
an extensive, We will measure the carbon footprint of 500 more products and multi-disciplinary, multi-faculty network of academics is being communicate the findings to our customers.
We will also continue established and prestigious sci independent research fellowships to grow our range of green products, making it easy and affordable are being awarded.
for our customers to make green choices.
We will roll out the first phase of our Trading Fairly programme, the sci is committed to publishing its research findings on an open access basis.
uk sci ensuring our values live throughout our supply chain and improving labour standards at the farms and factories that supply us.
We will provide opportunities for the long-term unemployed through three new Regeneration partnerships.
Looking ahead This year, we plan to create 11,000 new jobs directly in the UK as we continue to open new stores and expand our services businesses, particularly tpF.
indirectly, our investment in new stores, refits and Does carbon labelling extensions will sustain more than 7,300 jobs in construction, maintenance and related areas.
We also plan to create a further really make a difference?
15,000 jobs in our international businesses.
This summer, we will pilot Community Fairs at stores across the country fun days for the whole community to support local charities and featuring local suppliers.
We believe in encouraging customers to make greener decisions by providing clear information to help them make better choices.
Weve been working with the Carbon Trust as well as some of our main suppliers to develop a universal carbon footprint label which not only helps inform customers, but also helps our suppliers by identifying opportunities to reduce emissions.
We started trialling carbon labels in the UK and Ireland last year, on products such as orange juice, light bulbs, washing detergents and potatoes, and the results have been encouraging more than half our customers say that wider application of the labels could change their purchasing decisions.
3bn Since launching green Clubcard points in August 2006 to reward customers who re-use their bags, they have helped us to save over three billion bags.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
