RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 36 Key performance indicators We operate a balanced scorecard approach to managing the business that is known internally within the group as our steering Wheel.
this unites the groups resources and in particular focuses the efforts of our staff around our customers, people, operations, finance and the community.
its prime focus is as a management tool for the company so that there is appropriate balance in the trade-offs that need to be made all the time between the main levers of management such as operations measures, financial measures or delivery of customer metrics.
it therefore enables the business to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard to the needs of all stakeholders.
For the owners of the business, it is simply based around the philosophy that if we look after customers well and operate efficiently and effectively then shareholders interests will always be best served by the inevitable outputs of those growth in sales, profits and returns.
2009 2008 Sales growth change in group sales over the year including value added tax 15.1% 11.1% UK sales growth 9.5% 6.7% international sales growth 30.6% 25.3% international sales growth at constant exchange rates 13.6% 22.5% Retailing services sales growth 11% profit before tax 2,954m 2,803m Underlying profit before tax 3,128m 2,846m Trading margin UK trading margin 6.2% 5.9% international trading margin excluding the United states 5.3% 5.6% trading margin is calculated from the trading profit expressed as a percentage of group revenue sales excluding value added tax.
it is a measure of profit generation from sales and is a comparable performance measure with other companies.
this is how much we made from trade in our stores, taking account of the cost of the products sold, wages and salaries, expenses associated with running the stores, depots and head office, and the cost of depreciation of the assets used to generate the profits.
trading profit is stated after adjusting operating profit for the impact of ias 19, ias 32 and ias 39 principally pension costs and the marking to market of financial instruments.
it also excludes the non-cash elements of ias 17 leases, relating to the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods, and the iFRs 3 amortisation charge on intangible assets arising on the acquisition of tesco personal Finance tpF.
Net cash inflow outflow 1,601m 801m net cash inflow is the cash received less cash spent during the financial period, after financing activities Capital expenditure 4.7bn 3.9bn this is the amount invested in purchasing fixed assets UK 2.6bn 2.3bn international 2.1bn 1.6bn Net borrowings and gearing net borrowings 9.6bn 6.2bn gearing 74% 52% Return on capital employed ROCE 13.0% 12.9% Roce is calculated as profit before interest less tax divided by the average of net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for sale.
Roce is a relative profit measurement that not only incorporates the funds shareholders have invested, but also funds invested by banks and other lenders, and therefore shows the productivity of the assets of the group.
Underlying diluted earnings per share 28.92p 27.02p Underlying diluted earnings per share is the calculation of profit after tax and minority interest divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
it is the amount which could be paid out on each share if the company decided to distribute all its profits as dividends instead of retaining some for future expansion.
all 2009 Kpis are for 53 weeks to 28 February 2009 unless otherwise stated.
international trading margins rose by 15 basis points excluding the impact of consolidating the china business.
excluding acquisitions of tpF and Homever, india start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
Using a normalised tax rate before start-up costs in the Us and tesco Direct, and excludes the impact of foreign exchange in equity and our acquisition of a majority share of Dobbies.
Underlying diluted earnings per share grew by 7% on a statutory basis.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 37 2009 2008 Total shareholder return 8.0% 22.8% total shareholder return is the notional return from a share and is measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividend paid.
this is measured over the last five years.
Full year dividend per share 11.96p 10.90p the growth of the dividend per share from one period to the next is important to shareholders since this represents their actual cash return, and is usually paid twice a year.
We monitor a wide range of Kpis, both financial and non-financial.
individual business units have their own versions of the steering Wheel which incorporate their own priorities and Kpis.
some of the group Kpis below are tracked through the steering Wheel and those above are tracked as a monitor of investor return.
across the group, Kpis are set for local markets, with oversight from the executive Directors, to ensure they are tailored to drive the priorities of each business.
the following are some Kpis for the UK and group operations: 2009 2008 UK market share grocery market share 22.2% 21.8% non-food market share 8.8% 8.5% Employee retention 87% 84% this measure shows the percentage of employees who have stayed with the business for longer than one year.
it is one measure that we use to monitor employee loyalty and satisfaction and we aim to exceed 80% retention of experienced staff.
Reduction in CO2 emissions UK 13.3% 3.8% the group 12.6% 3.8% this measure shows the overall reduction in emissions from energy use of existing stores and distribution centres, related to a fixed 2006 7 floor area.
it excludes refrigerant gas emissions.
Reduction in CO2 emissions intensity of new stores the group 20.9% 11.7% intensity is measured as co2 emissions sq ft. the measure indicates the average reduction in emissions intensity of all new stores built since 2006 7 the base year.
carbon footprint reporting has been assured by environmental Resources management eRm.
this is measured as the share of all spend by all shoppers through taylor nelson sofres superpanel total till Roll data.
com annualreport09 Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
