RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 12 540m in productivity savings David Potts Retail and Logistics Director Is Every Little Helps still important?
Making many small improvements in everything we do is what Every Little Helps is about, because when we all work together on the little things, it amounts to a great deal.
Its more important today than its ever been it keeps us focused on what matters most to customers.
They are shopping around more and price is clearly a priority for many so we need to put the right effort and investment into price but not sacrifice all the other things that are so important to customers, such as not having to queue and being able to get everything that they want.
So weve continued to make lots of small improvements and theyre making a big difference.
For example, through a number of initiatives to achieve a better and more efficient service at our checkouts, many more customers didnt have to queue last year and customers continue to rank us best for speed of service at the checkouts.
RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 13 Core UK Everyone in the business understands the way we work to make things better for customers, simpler for staff and cheaper for Tesco.
At a time when customers are feeling the pinch and our competitors have improved, this philosophy is more important than ever.
its been a tough year for many of our customers.
consumer confidence has fallen as people worry about unemployment and are struggling to manage their household budgets.
not surprisingly, there has been a shift in our customers priorities our research has shown that price is ranked as the most important by a margin not seen in two decades.
therefore, we believe our job is to be on the side of customers, listening to them and doing what we can to help them spend less.
at the time of the last recession we launched value lines the famous blue and white stripes so weve long been able to provide the cheapest grocery shop in the country, discounters included.
this recession has provided a new challenge because although 30% customers tend to shop around more for the best prices when times are hard it doesnt mean they want to compromise on quality of the Around 30% of our customers buy something from our shopping trip or on choice.
that is why this year we made the biggest Discount Brands at Tesco every time they shop.
change to our range in a decade, launching around 500 new products as part of our Discount Brands at tesco initiative.
the new range means that every customer can have a product to match their budget without compromising on choice or quality.
it creates a completely of productivity projects that span the whole business, from stores and new way to shop for customers who want to spend less.
they range from reducing the amount of energy we use in our stores to introducing better ways of working to improve as well as introducing more affordable products we have been working our efficiency by making things better for customers, simpler for staff hard to cut prices across the store.
to help us do this we have been keeping and cheaper for tesco.
For example, in the last year we have saved very good control of costs and have put more focus on our efficiency 52,000 deliveries to our stores by using larger-fill double-decked saving programme we call step-change.
this programme has delivered vehicles, which in turn have also saved 12 million road miles.
540 million of productivity and other savings in the year, most of which have been reinvested in improving our shopping trip for customers.
Weve also introduced innovative technology which allows us to electronically check-in bread and milk deliveries at our depots, this programme involves many projects right across the business eliminating substantial paperwork and administration.
which change the way we do things to drive efficiency.
many of todays savings were conceived and planned years ago and they are a result We have picked up the pace on a number of these long-term cross-functional step-change projects and plan to deliver similar savings in the current year of around 550 million.
these savings will continue to go back into improving our offer for customers.
making things better, simpler and cheaper is part of our culture at tesco and all our people are encouraged to suggest new ideas on how we can achieve this.
12m road miles saved with double-decked trucks One-in-front promise Millions more customers didnt have to queue at the checkout last year thanks to our one-in-front promise.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 14 Core UK continued some examples of these projects which have delivered substantial savings in the year include: Savings in the supply chain from more shelf-ready packaging and reconfiguring of our depot network to increased vehicle utilisation and more productive work methods in depots and stores mean that, for example, distribution costs have been held in cash terms and reduced in percentage of sales terms.
this has been achieved despite higher fuel costs.
We have significantly increased the level of capital investment in energy-saving projects across the business in new refrigeration, store lobbies and lighting delivering significant reductions in consumption and helping us to absorb rising utility costs.
energy consumption in tesco fell by 8% last year despite business growth.
70% of our products are delivered to stores in retail-ready packaging, including all of our new Discount Brands saving many hours of staff time re-filling shelves.
We now have 3,100 employees at our Hindustan Global Support centre in Bangalore, india, which provides it and administrative support to our UK and international operations from software development to management accounting and payroll.
The introduction of new checkout technology for stores, which is faster, more accurate and easier for staff, has continued to reduce costs and improve customer service.
For example, around 25% of our UK customer transactions are through self-service checkouts.
UK performance in the UK, tesco coped well with recovering competitors and a difficult non-food market, particularly in the second half, to deliver solid progress in the year.
UK retail sales grew by 9.1%, including a like-forlike increase, including petrol, of 4.3% 3.0% excluding petrol.
Both customer numbers and spend per visit increased and we also delivered robust margin and profit improvement.
400m We have given our Clubcard customers over 400 million worth of vouchers in the year.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 15 To find out more go to www.
com annualreport09 in the current year we expect to trade the business harder to give what help we can to families whose budgets have become stretched and Some of your competitors who are worried about their jobs.
our competitive offer is strong and we are investing more in cutting prices, sharpening our promotions say that they are cheaper and putting even more affordable products on our shelves, particularly through the launch of more Discount Brands.
Whilst price and value than Tesco.
Why arent you matter more to many customers at times like these, as always, we doing more to cut prices?
are improving all aspects of the shopping trip, including service and availability.
as part of this, we are planning to relaunch and invest substantially more in clubcard our unique way of saying thank you to our customers in the coming weeks.
New space We opened a total of 2.0m square feet of new sales area in 2008 9, of which 362,000 square feet was in store extensions, principally for extra.
We opened another 11 extra hypermarkets six from extensions to To reflect our customers need to spend less, we have existing stores and five new stores, bringing the total to 177, with a invested millions of pounds in cutting prices and further 15 planned this year.
extra now represents 40% of our total introduced more promotions, as well as launching new sales area.
We also opened 21 new superstores and 125 new express ranges of affordable products in both our Value range stores, bringing the overall total number of tesco stores to 2,282. and our new Discount Brands.
Although there are many different conflicting claims on in the current year, we aim to open a similar amount of new space price in the marketplace, we have focused on comparing across our formats equivalent to an additional 6.4% of sales area.
the prices of real customers baskets from Clubcard on the products people buy most often.
These baskets clearly show that Tesco is cheaper on the real baskets people actually buy, and is the most comprehensive survey in the marketplace today.
In order to continue to reduce our prices, our efficiency programme Step-Change generated 540m of savings in the last year which we have been reinvesting back in our offer and will be doing more of this in the year ahead.
1, 683,000 baskets Real cheaper Basket Results.
221,000, 000 At T esco, we compare prices on the things you actually put in your baskets 25% shopping basket like bread, milk, meat and fruit and veg.
And on Thursday 2nd April, we found that over 1,680,000 of your baskets cheaper were cheaper at T esco than they would have been at Sainburys.
of our customer Tescosaves youmoney with Clubcard transactions are through Newprice cuts andselected Discount Brand products available in 1500stores.
Based on a sample of 10% of all Clubcard transactions in store 02 04 09 compared with prices at Sainsburys.
Exact figures are T esco cheaper 168,317 baskets, Sainsburys would have been cheaper 22,048 baskets.
Excludes multibuys, non matches, Express & selected Metro.
T o verify contact T esco Price EN8 9SL or see www.
com S ainsburys Te s co self-service checkouts Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
