RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 7 Sales by region Sales growth contribution by region 0.2bn 2% UK UK 7.6bn 21% EUROPE EUROPE ASIA ASIA 10.1bn 30% US US 41.5bn 47% a catalogue.
our retailing services have delivered another good year, with tesco.
com growing strongly, tesco personal Finance making good progress and telecoms continuing to build its customer base strongly and grow profits.
Finally, our work on community and environment continues we have recently opened our latest blueprint green store at cheetham Hill, manchester, which has a carbon footprint 70% lower than a normal store.
Markets served and business model tescos growth, driven by this strategy, has been predominantly organic and we have used our skills and knowledge in understanding customers, property development, supply chain management, new Laurie Mcllwee Group Finance Director product development, store formatting and adapting to local customer needs to create strong business models in our chosen markets.
Where As Group Finance Director, what are your we do not have all the required skills ourselves to be successful, we priorities at the moment?
regularly partner with existing businesses and these relationships have formed the basis of some of our most successful operations for example with samsung in south Korea.
the UK grocery retail market remains our largest source of revenue, My main challenge is to maintain the balance between staying on strategy while living within our means.
For a growth company like representing some 50% of last years 59.4 billion of sales.
international Tesco it is vital of course that we meet the challenges posed by the retail sales from our 12 markets in europe, asia and the United states, economic downturn and the priorities there are the same as for comprise a further 30% of group revenues and non-food in a variety any finance director in the current environment in helping the of categories from health and beauty to electronics accounts for most business to find the resources to invest for customers, by keeping of the remainder.
our services businesses have comparatively small a good grip on costs and cash.
revenue streams, but they are increasingly material to our earnings base.
We have given them a renewed focus this year deploying more capital At the same time though, I need to do what I can to help sustain Tescos and management resources.
a first key step in making these already investment in future growth.
By investing in the right opportunities, successful businesses much larger and more significant to the group protecting ourselves from unpredictable capital markets and trading was the acquisition of Royal Bank of scotlands share of tesco personal in a sustainable way we should exit this recession as an even stronger company.
Thats how Tesco emerged as a winner from the last Finance and we expect these businesses, including our online shopping recession.
Exciting opportunities are there to be grasped for example, channels, telecoms and dunnhumby our consumer research business land and property are already significantly cheaper, our online to deliver 1 billion a year of profit for the group within the next few years.
businesses are not capital intensive and, given the loss of confidence in the banking sector, our very conservative, straightforward approach in at the core of tescos business model is a focus on trying to improve what Tesco Personal Finance may be exactly what customers are looking for.
We aim to make their shopping experience as easy as possible, lower prices where we can to help them spend less, give them more choice about how they shop in small stores, large stores or online and seek to bring simplicity and value to sometimes complicated markets.
We aim to be a good neighbour in the communities we serve, be responsible, fair and honest in our dealings and give customers the in some of our newer markets such as telecoms or financial services, our information and products they need to make greener choices.
We are willingness to partner with established businesses has given us access also an inclusive business everyone is welcome at tesco.
to their existing investment in systems and infrastructure and enabled tesco to develop competitive, profitable business models quickly and, Underpinning this approach is a relentless attitude to being the lowest at the same time, limit our own investment and risk in the early years.
cost provider of goods and services in our chosen sectors and this in the case of financial services, having successfully partnered with combination of qualities is the reason we have been successful in some Royal Bank of scotland for a decade we now have the experience to take of the worlds most competitive markets.
We have recognised skills and sole ownership in order to pursue our aim of becoming a full-service retail proprietary systems in key areas which help us deliver a low cost model bank and give tesco personal Finance the focus that this will require.
particularly in customer relationship management, just-in-time supply chain and distribution, property development and store formatting.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
