RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 16 12.5bn Group non-food sales Richard Brasher Commercial and Marketing Director Lots of high street retailers have been cutting prices.
Can I still get the best deals at Tesco?
Across the non-food market, customers have been cutting back on non-essential purchases.
But they have been buying when they see real value and, as a consequence, we have increased our market share as customers appreciate the convenience of buying non-food from Tesco and the value that we offer.
Weve been adding new ranges with lower price-points and extending ranges that consumers see as essentials and weve seen real success on own-brand products such as Technika in electricals and Cherokee and F F in our clothing offer.
Our online catalogue non-food offer, Tesco Direct, has been very popular and we have seen strong growth with our latest spring summer range which included 1,500 price cuts compared to our autumn winter catalogue.
With the benefit of high footfall, great value ranges and the option to shop in store or online, we are well-placed to continue to grow both sales and market share in a difficult market.
RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 17 Non-food Its been a challenging year for non-food as consumers around the globe have been hit by the economic downturn and are cutting back on non-essential purchases but by keeping our prices low, improving our offer in key categories like electricals and clothing and giving customers more choice about how they shop, such as through Tesco Direct we have outperformed the market.
non-food remains an important part of our strategy and we continue to grow both sales and market share.
in our experience, customers will buy where they see value.
to help customers we have been making changes to our ranges and cutting prices.
For example, in the UK sales of our technika own-brand televisions have been very strong as customers trade away from big brands and we now have a 10% share of the television market.
Weve also been promoting our slow cooking appliances as customers have been buying cheaper cuts of meat and cooking from scratch half of all slow cookers bought in the run-up to christmas were sold in tesco.
our online non-food business, tesco Direct, continues to grow rapidly, increasing sales by more than 50% in the year.
the latest spring summer catalogue and website includes over 1,500 products that are cheaper than they were last year.
in the current year we also plan to introduce an online clothing offer making our fashionable, affordable N o.
5 clothes easier to buy for many more customers.
Technika is the fifth largest to ensure that we offer the best possible prices for customers we buy TV brand in the UK.
many products globally so that we benefit from our scale.
We have an international sourcing office based in Hong Kong which is responsible for buying 100,000 non-food products for the group.
the international sourcing operation has seen rapid growth in the last few years and now We have invested in buying hubs where we have a critical mass of sources 60% of our clothing in the UK and 40% of hardlines, including suppliers and shipment volumes.
it helps to be close to our suppliers electricals, homewares, entertainment, toys and books.
in europe it so that we can ensure great quality products, delivered from ethical provides over 25% of our hardlines and 85% of our clothing and we sources, on time and at the best price.
have recently started to source products for asia.
in the last year our international sourcing team shipped 72,000 containers from 54 ports.
Where possible we try to source products direct from factories rather than through agents or middlemen.
this way we can ensure the lowest We also have sourcing hubs in china, india, sri lanka, Bangladesh possible cost price as well as making sure that our products are sourced and turkey, with smaller offices in thailand, czech Republic and italy.
We also manage to strip out more costs by consolidating freight volumes.
this gives us the best shipping and transportation rates, which can be passed on to the customer in the form of lower prices.
Clothing sales in Central Europe up 11% Gaming sales up 30% Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 18 Non-food continued tescos large general merchandise business has been resilient despite the challenges posed by weakening demand as consumers cut back on discretionary spending.
price reductions, stronger promotions particularly of smaller ticket items and a focus on particular categories such as electronics, plus an excellent performance from tesco Direct, have supported good market share growth.
the profitability of our non-food business has also been pleasing.
UK non-food sales rose by 5% in the year, compared with 9% in 2007 8, with total non-food sales increasing to 8.7 billion included in reported UK sales.
second half like-for-like was encouraging, showing a small improvement versus Quarter 2, with a stable performance in Quarter 4 compared with Quarter 3.
We saw growth in some hardlines categories particularly in electrical goods, games and entertainment and also in pharmacy.
Market leader Home related categories reflecting the slowdown in the housing We are market leader for clothing in market, were more challenging particularly furniture, DiY and Hungary and the Czech Republic.
on a like-for-like basis, clothing sales reduced by 2% in the year, but outperformed the market with good growth in menswear and an improving trend in childrenswear, with a stronger second half performance.
Have you cut back on the amount of new space you are adding for non-food?
Non-food is an important part of a long-term strategy for growth.
It is a market which is similar in size to food and in which we only have a small share so we see it as a big opportunity for us in the future, irrespective of the economic climate.
Last year we opened over 600,000 square feet of new space for non-food in the UK alone including our latest non-food-only Homeplus stores in Edinburgh and Nottingham which means 53m more customers than ever have access to our offer in store.
With Tesco Direct we have made our widest non-food range available Last year our international buying office to millions of customers who cant get to one of our larger stores.
sourced over 53 million pairs of socks for the Group.
In fact, we get around 1.5 million visits to the website each week and weve continued to roll-out Direct collection desks in store so customers have the convenience of collecting their purchases at the same time as doing their weekly shop, as well as having the opportunity to have them delivered directly to their homes.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 19 To find out more go to www.
com annualreport09 Non-food sales bn How do you ensure 12.5 11.8 that your products are 10.4 ethically sourced in places like Bangladesh?
6.8 6.0 We want all of our products to be sourced responsibly and fairly, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 but it is more challenging to achieve for general merchandise because of the global nature of the supply base.
Were building stronger relationships with our global non-food suppliers by tesco Direct, which is managed within tesco.
com, is designed to extend reducing the number we work with.
the reach of our non-food offer by making it more available to customers via the internet and catalogues and is now established and thriving.
Weve improved the quality of supplier audits and now have it has delivered excellent sales growth and reduced losses as planned.
730 authorised independent auditors around the world.
To ensure We issued 11.5 million catalogues last year and now have 12,500 that audits are representative, we have made a significant shift products available online.
the popularity of our in-store Direct desks, from announced to surprise audits where suppliers are given which are now in 231 stores, continues to increase as more customers a one month window when auditors may visit.
order and collect items from their local tesco.
We plan to add clothing to our online offer later this year.
In October we were highly commended for the Fashion Ethical Cotton Award the only major retailer nominated in any category.
group non-food sales rose 6% to 12.5 billion, including 3.8 billion To find out more go to www.
15m energy-efficient light bulbs sold in the UK Tesco Tech Support Teams We have Tesco Tech Support Teams in our largest stores who are specially trained to help customers with technical queries about everything from TVs and digital switchover, to computing and wireless networking, to cameras and sat navs.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
