RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 8 International sales up 31% Philip Clarke International and IT Director How do you run successful businesses in so many countries?
Weve long understood that retailing is local.
Each team on the ground is able to adjust our offer to each market because customers in China, for example, arent the same as those in Poland or South Korea.
So weve never tried to run the international business from our office in the UK.
In fact, we have very few expats working outside the UK in South Korea just six out of a team of over 20,000 people.
As we face into some strong economic headwinds, its more important than ever to stay close to customers and be able to adapt quickly locally as their needs change.
We have people in each of our markets who have a wealth of experience and are able to make the decisions that really matter.
A big part of my job is about making sure weve got the right people in each country, sharing experience around the business and empowering people to do the right things for their customers.
RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 9 International Its been another good year for our international business which now spans 13 countries across Asia, Europe and the United States.
As customers around the world are feeling the effects of the global economic slowdown we are successfully adjusting our offer in all our markets to help customers who are feeling the pinch.
across our markets customers are changing their shopping habits as they are affected to varying degrees by the global economic downturn.
in this kind of environment, it is more important than ever to listen to customers and adapt quickly to their changing needs.
each of our markets is different so its up to the individual businesses to adjust their offer locally.
Using customer insight allows our experienced teams on the ground to make decisions based on real customer data.
We have spent many years developing our customer insight skills, particularly through dunnhumby, the consumer research company behind our loyalty scheme, clubcard.
through careful analysis of sales and loyalty card data we can better understand what is important to our customers.
this year we have been using this unique insight across most parts of our business so we dont have to guess what our customers want, we know.
Whilst it is important to invest in the shopping trip we are also in all our markets its helping us select the most important items for continuing to invest for future growth.
this is a strategy that has served price-sensitive or cost-conscious shoppers so we can invest in lowering us well in the past: for example we entered thailand and south Korea prices on the most important items to help customers through tough during the asian economic crisis in the 1990s and emerged stronger economic times.
For example, in malaysia, we have reviewed our once the economies started to recover.
We are now market leader in range of staple foods and groceries and as a result we have introduced thailand and following our acquisition of 36 hypermarkets in south 27 new products to the basket, which we know are among the most Korea we are now in a very strong position to challenge for market important for customers.
We now make sure that we are not beaten leadership there as well.
on price for these products.
We also announced our entry into the indian market last year.
We are this insight is also helping us to make things simpler for customers to establishing a cash & carry business that will offer a comprehensive range shop in our stores.
For example, in asia we have worked with our leading of great value fresh food, grocery and non-food products to small supplier of baby milk.
By reviewing the sales data we discovered that retailers, restaurants, kirana stores and other business owners.
We will displaying the products by brand rather than by age was important so also provide farmers and other suppliers with a highly efficient route to we are changing the layout on the shelves to make it easier for customers market.
in addition, we have signed an exclusive franchise agreement to find the products they want.
with trent, the retail arm of the tata group.
trent currently operates four star Bazaar hypermarkets, with plans to grow to 50 stores over the next five years.
We will supply these hypermarkets with products, but also offer our retail expertise and technical capability to support the development of their business.
the overall performance of our international businesses during the year has been strong, particularly against the background of increasingly challenging trading conditions in all of our markets as the effects of the economic downturn on consumers have grown and spread around the world.
We have delivered very good sales and profit growth and our investment returns have held up well.
importantly, we have grown share in all of our markets and in some countries we have made more rapid progress this year by sticking to our strategy as competitors falter.
By continuing to focus on doing the right things for customers lowering prices, introducing more affordable products, offering even stronger promotions they have rewarded us with good sales and market share growth.
By keeping our costs low and pushing on with expansion, we aim to take the opportunity Loyalty card schemes to strengthen further our market positions during the recession.
We have national loyalty card schemes based on Clubcard in Ireland, Malaysia, South Korea and China and pilot schemes in Slovakia, Poland, Thailand and Turkey.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 10 International continued in most of our markets we are now amongst the largest, most profitable Asia and fastest growing businesses and this is a good platform from We have delivered a strong performance in asia.
this has been achieved which to make further progress, even in tough times.
our experience whilst absorbing planned integration costs and initial trading losses in Hungary of trading profitably and growing well during an already during conversion on the newly-acquired Homever stores in south Korea.
prolonged recession which began in 2006, also gives us confidence With all the stores now converted to our Homeplus format, we expect that by applying what we have learned there in our other markets, the this acquisition to provide a good underpinning to growth in asia as business can perform well through the current environment.
a whole in the current year and beyond as we realise the synergies and scale benefits from the deal.
the underlying business in south europe including ireland, turkey and the four central european Korea delivered solid profit growth and elsewhere in asia we saw countries and the Western Us have seen the most marked effects excellent progress in malaysia and thailand, partly offset by a small of the economic downturn although more recently, as the export-led trading loss in Japan.
economies of asia particularly south Korea and china have also In China, having studied the market carefully and developed our slowed, trading conditions there too have deteriorated.
long-term strategy, we have begun to accelerate store and infrastructure development in the economically important and in europe, these challenges have been joined by the consequences of populous coastal provinces, centred on the major cities.
our first substantial exchange rate movements between the euro or euro-linked multi-level freehold shopping centre development will open in currencies and other currencies within the european Union.
these Foshun in a few months time, with a further three planned in the movements have encouraged very significant increases in cross-border current year.
sites have been secured for a further 14.
We saw shopping by consumers in several regions the clearest examples strong sales, including good like-for-like growth in the year as a being ireland into northern ireland, czech Republic into germany and whole although sales slowed in the final quarter, partly driven slovakia into poland.
our stores located close to these borders have by food price deflation and we made a modest profit, similar seen material sales impacts as customers take advantage of devalued to last year.
currencies and this has affected the rate of sales growth overall in these markets.
Japans already difficult retail market saw a further sharp deterioration towards the end of 2008. the new team in Japan is although in some markets we have moderated our rate of growth in space, building on last years introduction of the tesco operating model overall we have chosen to sustain strong growth in selling area and this a suite of systems and processes which is being rolled out across will continue.
With reductions in site, build and fitting costs for stores our markets by strengthening distribution, range and pricing these have fallen substantially since last year we are able to use our management.
our strategic focus remains on building a strong capital more efficiently, and this should be helpful to long-term returns.
offer for customers in the convenience sector based on express and on our tsurukame small discount supermarket format and at the end of February, our operations in asia and europe were trading this work is making progress.
13 new stores including six of our from 1,911 stores, including 608 hypermarkets, with a total of 55.0m sq ft new 24-hour express stores opened during the year.
this year, we plan to open 320 new stores with a total Homeplus in South Korea which celebrates its tenth anniversary of 5.4m square feet of sales area in these markets and a further this year delivered another very good performance, coping well 0.6m sq ft is planned to open in the Us.
with the twin challenges of subdued consumer spending and the task of integrating the 36 Homever stores which were acquired in september.
including the acquired stores, 3.9m square feet of space an increase of 63% was opened during the year.
some of last years organic development was deferred whilst we focused on integrating Homever and our programme of new space this year will reflect this.
the customer response to the conversion of the stores to Homeplus has been excellent, with sales uplifts on the converted stores averaging well over 50%.
the performance of our express stores, which saw sales growth of 64% in the year, has also been very encouraging.
Malaysia has had an exceptional year achieving rapid progress in sales, profits and returns as it delivers the full benefits of the makro acquisition in early 2007. this success, combined with a fast rate of organic expansion, has enabled us to become market leader in a country which we entered only in 2001. although economic growth has slowed in recent months, our strong market position plus a good pipeline of seven planned new hypermarkets in the current year, mean we can extend our lead.
clubcard, which was launched at the end of 2007, is being very well-received by customers.
Tesco Lotus in Thailand has delivered strong growth against the background of sustained political uncertainty and a weakening economy.
consumer confidence levels are low but our continued investment in improving our offer for customers has served the business well and we are continuing to outperform our major Poland competitors.
our small format stores particularly talad In Poland we have launched the first phase of supermarkets and express stores, which are very popular with our new discount range designed to compete customers in the larger cities have seen very good growth in with local limited range discounters.
Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009 RepoRt oF tHe DiRectoRs 11 To find out more go to www.
com annualreport09 Europe relative to the euro which has seen an estimated 4% of the total our european growth for the year as a whole has been strong, helped market move over the border.
the benefits of our new distribution overall by favourable exchange rate movements.
During the second centre at Donabate have delivered substantial efficiencies and half, the effects of the global economic slowdown have been felt in all improved stock management, and we have also seen a strong of our markets reflected in slowing gDp growth and deteriorating performance from our new stores.
consumer confidence and spending levels.
In Slovakia we saw excellent growth, although the adoption of the euro in January 2009 gave rise to conversion costs and, given the inevitably, our businesses have been impacted, resulting in slower weakening currencies relative to the euro in bordering countries, growth in sales and profit at constant exchange rates from last autumn we saw the emergence of cross-border shopping towards the end of onwards.
Whilst our food and grocery categories have remained robust the year.
this has impacted sales in recent months.
From our strong and we have seen excellent market share performances across our market-leading position, and with an excellent and growing network markets non-food sales, principally of hardlines, have been subdued of multi-format stores, we have coped well with the tougher market and this has held back hypermarket growth in particular.
our multiconditions and achieved good market share gains.
format approach has helped to mitigate this and we have seen very good growth in our smaller-format stores, particularly in central In Turkey, Kipa, which is one of our smallest but fastest-growing europe, and these remain a priority in our expansion plans.
businesses, has seen strong sales, driven by the growth of new space, but pressure on margins resulting from the sharp contraction in the the work we have done on pan-european sourcing of tesco own-brand economy and consumer demand during recent months.
We are and general merchandise has further strengthened our competitive continuing to see growth in share in a very fragmented market but position in the region.
We have fully launched the equivalent of our UK given the severity of the downturn in turkey, we have decided Discount Brands in several markets and customer feedback has been to slow our rate of expansion for the time being.
the performance of cherokee and F F clothing in an important strategic longer-term opportunity for us as a large, europe has also been pleasing and we have taken significant market growing and relatively underdeveloped retail market.
overall clothing sales are up 11%, including 6% like-for-like growth with childrens garment sales increasing by 43%.
United States Fresh & easy has made good progress.
We are now trading from In the Czech Republic, levels of consumer demand have been 115 stores and the early openings have moved strongly into like-for-like affected both by the slowdown in the economy and by the increasing growth.
Whilst it is still early days, and the economic environment into scale of cross-border shopping into neighbouring germany, driven by which we originally launched the business has markedly changed, the strength of the Koruna.
Despite this, good cost control offsetting customers very positive feedback on our offer has continued to surpass investment in lower prices, better pay rates and improved service our expectations.
Research confirms that they love the quality and levels and continued expansion delivered solid growth in profits freshness of our ranges, as well as the prices and the convenient in the year.
our early express stores have been well-received by locations of the stores.
customers in central prague and we are continuing a programme of refits and in some cases major redevelopments of our the normal process of adapting a new format to fully meet the needs department stores.
this included the complete remodelling of our of customers locally has resulted in some changes to the product large department store in leberec, which was completed last month.
ranges, the introduction of a limited number of promotions and special offers, as well as improvements to the ambience of the stores.
these Hungary has endured a serious economic recession for approaching changes have been well-received and consequently we are seeing very three years.
However, our strategy of cutting costs and investing in strong growth in customer numbers per store.
lowering prices and expanding our store network is continuing to yield good results and we have been able to sustain profit growth given the scale of the economic downturn, particularly in las vegas, this year in very challenging circumstances.
like-for-like sales growth phoenix and the inland empire region of california, we are also ex-petrol was positive and we are outperforming most of our seeing increased demand from customers looking to make stretched competitors, with our market share growing to 17%.
our new store household budgets go further through more affordable products, opening programme delivered a 13% increase in our space through larger pack sizes and additional range in some categories, such as 14 large hypermarkets and 12 smaller format stores.
We are looking to meet these needs by In Poland, our business has delivered a very strong performance, making further changes to the stores.
including robust growth in sales and profits.
this was achieved in the context of competitive trading conditions and significant wage as previously announced, we are taking a more cautious approach to investment and energy cost inflation during the year.
Having expansion by maintaining instead of accelerating the rate of new store successfully completed the integration of the former leader price opening, until economic conditions start to improve in the Western stores where the cumulative sales uplift on conversion is now states in which we operate.
We opened 62 new stores in the year with approaching 60% we have resumed faster organic expansion, 0.6m square feet of selling space and we expect to open a similar with six large new hypermarkets and 12 compact hypermarkets number during the current year, mostly in the second half.
overall like-for-like growth was solid, with small formats seeing stronger growth than hypermarkets.
We have last april, with our preliminary Results, we said that initial Us trading recently introduced a new range of 700 Discount Brand products losses would total around 100m in the 2008 9 financial year.
and these are proving very popular with customers.
Us trading losses in 2008 9 were higher than expected, at 142m, principally as a result of the adverse movement in the Dollar: sterling A solid performance from Tesco Ireland produced another year of exchange rate during the second half and higher overhead costs linked growth despite the extremely difficult economic climate and trading to our more prudent rate of new store opening.
We expect a similar loss conditions have worsened in recent months.
a combination of very in the current year.
tight cost control and more international buying have helped us invest in lowering prices for customers.
these investments have become even more necessary given the steep rise in cross-border shopping into northern ireland encouraged by the decline in sterling Tesco PLC annual Report and Financial statements 2009
