 Thomas Cook Group plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009   FinancialStatements Our strategy Other consumer trends have continued and in some cases accelerated as a result of the  downturn.
As gure 2 shows, there has been a strong growth in travel to medium haul  package destinations such as Turkey and Egypt, in part helped by the strength of , the euro versus, for example, sterling and , travel-related the Swedish krona, which makes these destinations relatively cheap compared to  for example, Spain and Greece, and their availability of purpose built high quality viamergers, .
accommodation and all inclusive hotels.
  , butalsoappreciate , particularlythe Strategicobjectives adviceof aknowledgeableagent.
Strengthening our business and investing for growth Looking forward All the signs point to global economic Growthdrivers conditions continuing to remain tough in 2010.
GDP in major markets is expected to .
Unemployment, which traditionally lags GDP, is expected to Maximise Become Become the Capture continue to grow in major markets.
Fuel and value of a leading leading growth and currencies are likely to remain volatile as mainstream independent travel-related value through economic uncertainty persists.
In addition, travel provider financial mergers & services acquisitions the impacts of swine u, taxation and global provider and  partnerships confidence and therefore travel plans.
Despite the tough conditions, there is evidence that consumers are feeling more Enablers positive about their holiday plans for next Product Technology Customer insight Brands Financial rigour year.
Recent independent research commissioned by Thomas Cook in the UK Values shows that holidays remain a top spending PR O U D priority for 2010 see gure 3.
The research Pioneering Results Obsessed with United as Driving robust  our future orientated customer service one team decisions of people intending to take a holiday abroad versus the same time last year.
Strategy deliver against this vision, and whilst we However, whilst volumes may recover Our strategy is built around our vision of have refreshed this strategy regularly to somewhat, consumers are still likely to going further to make dreams come true.
adjust to changes in our marketplace, it exhibit the same price sensitivity and later For many of our customers, their holidays still holds true.
Asaresult, are the highlight of their year and we strategy is our outstanding team of forecasters are pointing towards a relatively want to ensure that those holidays live people and their shared values.
They at 2010 for the European travel market up to their very high expectations.
At work together to deliver the four tenets see gure 1. the same time we also aim to deliver of our strategy, our growth drivers, outstanding long-term value to our supported by key enablers such as our shareholders.
Our strategy, which was portfolio of leading travel brands, our originally formulated when our Group products and our technology backbone.
was formed in 2007, is designed to Thomas Cook Group plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 DirectorsReport Our strategy continued Ourvisionand Ourgrowthdrivers  strategicobjectives 1 Maximise value %of Wegofurthertomake totalrevenue.
Revenueincreased5%intheyear of mainstream dreamscometrue  For more information  see page 14. bycapacitycuts.
Revenueincreased10%inthe independent travel  provider  For more information .
 3 Become the leading  travel-related financial , andcontinued services provider .
For more information see page 18.
, 4 Capture growth and  value through M&A UK, .
and partnerships  For more information .
 Growthdrivers of productssoldonline, makingthemostof Thekeyareasof      channel,  confidence,  business,  charter .
attacks, naturaldisasters, healthscaresor  For more information see page 14. .
travel, suchasights, hotels, transfersandrep  services,     Independenttravel, whereconsumersbuild  legislation, new instores,   .
The helpof anagent,   Tomitigatetheserisks, wehavepursueda   strategyof reducingtheamountof inventory  itprovides, theeaseof choiceandselection,  theirownpackages dynamicpackaging.
 ourwholesalebusiness, whereweoperateas     highervalue unforeseenchange, aswedemonstrated  , four  swine .
 Finally,  Inmainstreamtravel, wearereorganisingour onlinetravelagent, leveragingourbrands, maximisingthevalueof ourcoremainstream  inventory, , ,   ourpeople, maximisethebenetsof oursizeandscale, channelmodel.
For more information see page 38.
 Thomas Cook Group plc 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2009   FinancialStatements   pleaseseethe Revenue  Operationalreview 59% Seepage20 Sustainability Protfromoperations Seepage30  Seepage38 134% Operatingprotmargin 71% See Appendix 2 on page 122 for key.
Independent travel will continue to grow  helped by technology improvements and   continued consumer demand.
Our strategy is to take advantage of that growth, in existingmarkets.
 particular the increase in online penetration.
anumberof   We plan to signicantly grow both sales of our in-house inventory online and sales of  sourcemarkets.
third party products, performing the role of an online travel agent.
For more information see page 16.
 M&Aandpartnerships  , weare servicesprovider   , acquisitions intothecategoriesof travelmoney, whichare orpartnerships.
,     foreignexchange:travelassurance, whichare valuefromthem, andontheotheronthe  newgrowthareasof emergingmarkets, in  particular,  thefts: India , , Russia, Chinaandpartsof SouthAmerica.
 are in advanced stages of discussions with marginproducts, andarenaturallysold both Russian and Chinese travel providers .
Our and aim to complete at least one of these  ourbrands early in 2010.
For more information see page 19.
