Overview 3 Financial Summary and Group Strategy GROUP STRATEGY Maximising shareholder value through long-term sustainable growth.
Four key elements: DRIVING TOP-LINE GROWTH MANAGING THE BALANCE SHEET Our growth strategy is focused on three key initiatives which we We manage the Groups balance sheet with two main objectives: execute both organically and through bolt-on acquisitions: i i to maximise shareholder value whilst retaining flexibility to leveraging the global Gates brand and footprint by growing our take advantage of opportunities that arise to grow the business: service and distribution capabilities in the global industrial and and ii to maintain an investment-grade credit rating.
automotive aftermarket end markets: ii expanding our presence In 2009, we extended the maturity of our committed bank in higher-growth emerging markets: and iii developing energy funding, with a $450 million forward-start facility that expires efficient, green products which reduce emissions.
Our existing facility of 400 million expires in In July 2009, we acquired Hydrolink, a fluid engineering services August 2010.
The facility is used periodically, mainly for working provider to the oil and gas and marine sectors in the Middle East.
During the year, the maximum amount drawn Hydrolink expands our range of hydraulic hose applications and down on the facility was $136.7 million, and the facility was services.
Annualised sales within the Gates Engineering & Services undrawn at the end of 2009. business which is part of Fluid Power are now approximately In 2009, we reduced net debt by $268.9 million to $207.5 million.
$100 million, and this area is a focus for further growth.
Our trading cash flow of $422.0 million was after net restructuring We recently completed the construction of a facility in Changzhou, cash costs of $69.3 million and net capital expenditure of China for Fluid Power, which became operational in early 2010.
The Group has been successful in reducing In Izmir, Turkey we started construction of our new Power inventory by $214.6 million this year, with overall working capital Transmission facility, due to be completed and operational in the reduced by $244.0 million.
Working capital management is second quarter of 2010.
We also opened a new service centre a key focus for the Group, and we anticipate a further small in Turkey and a new sales office in Houston for our Gates improvement in working capital in 2010.
A service centre in China The Group made certain amendments to its North American will be opened in early 2010. pension and post-retirement healthcare plans, which gave rise In November 2009, the European legislation for tyre pressure to a $63.0 million decrease in the associated deficits.
monitoring systems TPMS on certain vehicles was finalised.
Our strong balance sheet and available cash provides us with This legislation mandates tyre pressure monitoring on new models the flexibility to make bolt-on acquisitions to enhance growth introduced into the European market from 2012 and certain vehicles and provide returns to shareholders.
We continue to develop sold from 2014.
Schrader Electronics, which has a market leading acquisition opportunities within our areas of strategic focus, and position in remote TPMS, continues to work with European to invest organically in research and development, new facilities manufacturers to prepare for this change, which is expected to and service centres.
We will continue to evaluate the most double the market size for this product.
We expect this to benefit efficient use of our cash resources, and to allocate these in the Schrader business from 2011 onwards.
We also completed the way which maximises return to shareholders.
the construction of a new facility in India for our Schrader business, aimed at expanding our capacity to meet increasing demand from emerging markets and the replacement market.
During the year, we were involved with a number of projects to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, both within the public and private sectors.
We commenced work with a major US retail chain to fit Energy Recovery Ventilators to over 200 stores, which is expected to save around 20% of their total heating and cooling RESHAPING THE PORTFOLIO costs.
We completed the first phase of the Dubai Metro project, worth over $1 million, and in Australia, supplied a major tunnel We continue to focus on expanding our engineering services project with industrial tunnel fire dampers, worth over $3 million.
capabilities, and in the second half of this year, we completed the In total, we won over $25 million of  contracts acquisition of Hydrolink, which extends our capabilities in the oil to commence in 2010, including a project in Australia worth around and gas market.
$10 million, and a further $4 million contract to supply nuclear Within Building Products, we acquired the remaining 40% of facilities with Ruskins damper products.
Rolastar, an Indian ducting manufacturer, having acquired the initial 60% in February 2008.
Our associate in the UAE, Ruskin Titus Gulf, became operational and was awarded several large infrastructure projects.
MANAGING THE COST BASE In February 2010, we acquired Koch Filter, a manufacturer of air During 2009, we substantially completed our restructuring initiatives, filters for the non-residential filtration replacement market with Project Eagle and Project Cheetah, by closing 25 facilities during revenues of approximately $40 million.
Koch Filter builds on our the year and reducing headcount under these initiatives by 4,300. filtration capabilities, which were established with the acquisition We incurred net cash costs of $69.3 million and restructuring of Trion in 2008, and builds on our green product strategy and charges of $144.1 million.
We expect further net cash costs of investment in capital light businesses, with a focus on the around $65 million and restructuring charges of around $12 replacement market.
million in 2010 in relation to the previously announced closure of another three facilities.
We expect that, along with the recent We continue to look for opportunities, both organic and acquisitions, disposal of the Groups non-core businesses, our restructuring to expand our Gates and Air Distribution businesses in new initiatives will help us to achieve double-digit margins in the regions and new products.
During the third quarter, the closure of Philips Doors and Rigorous expense management throughout the Group remains Windows was completed.
