Directors Report effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, Employees or any agreements between the company and its directors or employees Matters relating to the companys employees are discussed on page 16. providing for compensation or loss of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Corporate, Social and Environmental Matters Matters relating to corporate, social and environmental matters are Indemnity Provisions discussed beginning on page 15.
At the companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006 shareholders approved an amendment to the companys Articles of Association providing Charitable and Political Contributions for indemnification of directors, which remains in force.
A copy of the The companys charitable policies are discussed on page 17.
The group companys Memorandum and Articles of Association are available for made $110,000 in charitable donations during 2009 to a variety of charities inspection at the companys office and from Companies House.
No including the Princes Trust and the University of Calgary 2008: $152,000.
qualifying third party indemnity provisions or any qualifying pension scheme The group did not make any political contributions during 2009 2008: $nil.
indemnity provisions are in force as of the date of this report or were in force during the year ended 31 December 2009.
Going Concern The group has considerable financial resources together with a significant Annual General Meeting number of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
At The Annual General Meeting will be held at the companys offices in 31 December 2009 the group had cash balances of $242.8 million and total Cambridge, UK, on 24 March 2010, at 4:00 p. m. The company will convey debt of $197.5 million.
As a consequence, the the results of proxy votes cast at the meeting, and the results will be directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business risks announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
The company is committed to the policy of one share After making enquiries and considering the cash flow forecasts of the group one vote.
Deloitte LLP, the companys independent auditors, have the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Meeting.
the twelve month consolidated financial statements.
Audit Capital Structure Each of the persons who were a director at the date of approval of this The structure of the companys capital consists solely of ordinary shares, annual report confirms that: nominal value 1 3p per share.
There are no restrictions imposed by the company on the transfer of securities in the company or limitations on the so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which holding of securities or requirements to obtain approval for a transfer of the company's auditors are unaware: and securities.
The Substantial Shareholdings table above sets forth such he has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a details as are informed to the company of the identity of persons holding a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit significant direct or indirect interest, and the holdings size.
The company information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of has no information with regards to the holdings to believe such holdings are that information.
for any reason other than ordinary financial investment purposes.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the The company has an Employee Benefit Trust which holds approximately provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
418,000 ordinary shares of the company and approximately 496,800 ordinary shares of blinkx Plc.
All rights with respect to such shares are On behalf of the Board, exercised by the independent trustee of the trust.
There are no restrictions on voting rights on the companys ordinary shares, including any limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage or number of votes, deadlines for exercising voting rights, or arrangements by which with the companys co-operation financial rights carried by securities Dr. Michael R. Lynch are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
The company Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities which may 22 February 2010 result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The company does not have any rules regarding the appointment and Registered Office: Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge replacement of directors and amendment of the Articles of Association CB4 0WZ other than those set forth in the Articles of Association.
The powers of the Registered Number: 3175909 directors are as set forth in the companys Articles of Association and as permitted by shareholders pursuant to the companys Annual General Meeting.
The company is not party to any material agreements that take Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21
