Business Overview MBC addresses the full range of information challenges and consequently Pharmaceutical customers such as AstraZeneca, Bristol Myers Squibb, forms the central requirement of major enterprise deployments all over the GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis and Pfizer use Autonomy to increase world.
Industry Analysts estimate that only around 20% of enterprise collaboration and decrease product development cycles as well as keep information is of the structured type that is held in a database.
The pace with changing regulations, demographic information and general remaining 80% is in human friendly forms such as email, telephone research and development.
conversations and video, which cannot easily be put into a database.
If you reflect on your working day, and consider the number of times you interact Government and public sector agencies throughout the world such as with structured data, such as a list of customers, or sales data, and the the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, U. S. State Department, number of times you send an email or pick up the phone, you will find this U. S. Department of Justice, U. S. Department of Commerce, U. S. to be right intuitively.
Department of Labor, U. S. Department of Education, UK Houses of Parliament, the British Tourist Authority and the UK Department of Trade and Industry use Autonomy to connect people and resources.
Intelligence and Defence organizations across the world use Autonomy to protect against security threats.
Worldwide customers include the U. S. Department of Homeland Security, U. S. Department of Defence, French MOD, Italian Ministry of Interior, Swedish Defence, Romanian Security, Spanish MOD, British MOD and the National Nuclear Security Administration.
Legal organizations, including 75 of the top 100 global law firms, over 1,400 law firms and over half of the Fortune 25 have standardized on Autonomy for all of their information discovery, high precision retrieval, and litigation support.
Autonomy enables customers such as White & Case, Freshfields, Pillsbury, Burges Salmon, LexisNexis, Linklaters and the UK Customers Law Society to speed up research, facilitate collaboration and information An extensive range of blue chip customers and public sector agencies from sharing, avoid duplication of effort, improve internal communications and around the world use Autonomys horizontal technology, relying on multiple streamline operations.
elements of our core IDOL technology for use across their global platforms.
IT companies such as IBM, Intel, Oracle, Sybase, BMC Software, HewlettMedia organizations such as the BBC, ITN, MTV, Bloomberg, CNN, Packard, Sun Microsystems, Lucent Technologies and HP EDS have Reuters, HBO, Forbes, the Press Association and France 2 use selected Autonomy to support development and accelerate routes to Autonomys award-winning technology to reduce production costs, keep market.
journalists abreast of new developments, publish and deliver large amounts of rich media content, archive disparate sources of content for reuse or Consulting and professional services customers such as IBM Global sale, drive traffic acquisition, provide browsers with a first-class user Services, KPMG, , Forrester Research and experience, and increase advertising revenue.
McCann Erickson use Autonomy to fully harness their personnel's expertise by fostering collaborative networks and profiling interactions between eCommerce providers such as BrassRing, Callaway Golf, FedEx, Forbes, people.
GCI Commerce, JobTarget, Louis Vuitton, Safeway, Schneider Electric, The McGraw-Hill Companies and T-Mobile employ Autonomys Energy and utilities customers face myriad challenges such as climate revolutionary technology to boost conversion rates, promote cross and upchange, depleting resources and soaring numbers of expatriate workers selling, simplify the management of special offers, increase average order with teams scattered throughout the world.
BP, Halliburton, Entergy, Shell, size, obtain a snapshot of patterns in buyers behaviour in real-time, Weatherford and Norsk Hydro use Autonomy to connect employees around provide customers with a tailor-made online experience, build customer the globe and help them maintain their competitive edge in an increasingly loyalty and monitor customer satisfaction.
Telecommunications providers such as AT&T, Ericsson, Cable and Manufacturers such as Ford, General Motors, BMW, Toyota, Canon, Wireless, BT, Telecom Italia, 3, Verizon, Vodafone, MCI and Sonera have Schneider Electric, Lafarge, Lexmark and Fiat use Autonomy's technology deployed Autonomy to help decrease operating costs and simultaneously in order to cut costs, streamline operations and capitalize on their assets in improve the quality and scope of services available to customers.
terms of both information and expertise.
Food and Beverage customers including Kraft, Nestl, Coca-Cola and Aerospace organizations such as NASA, BAE Systems, the US Air Force Britvic use Autonomy to stay up-to-date with the latest product and Boeing have selected Autonomy to maximize expertise by promoting developments and opportunities in the market to bring exciting products to collaboration and knowledge sharing between engineers in different parts consumers.
Finance and Banking professionals make numerous critical business Healthcare organizations including the UK National Health Service, the decisions in the course of a normal day.
Ten of the top ten global banks UK National Patient Safety Agency and Blue Cross Blue Shield use rely on Autonomy with customers that include Citi, Barclays, Bank of Autonomy to promote best practices and help protect patient safety.
America, RBS, Lloyds TSB, Deutsche Bank, Merrill Lynch, Grupo Autonomy provides medical professionals with the information they need to Santander, Credit Lyonnais, Credit Suisse and Danske Bank to stay make crucial decisions on the spot.
abreast of changing customer expectations and increasingly complex regulatory policies.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
