Business Overview It also turns out that ideas that are less expected within the context of a OEMs communication tend to be more indicative of its meaning.
So the word As part of our comprehensive OEM Program, numerous world-leading walk which appears several times in a news article about a man walking software companies embed Autonomys award-winning technology into his dog conveys far less meaning than the word murder, which appears their software solutions.
By leveraging Autonomy's technology, OEM just once in the same article.
It is this theory that enables Autonomy's licensees are able to address the problem of unstructured information, software to determine the most important or informative concepts within a provide unique next-generation functionality and deliver unparalleled document.
Compelling Return on Investment ROI Autonomy is relied on by OEMs from virtually every major software sector.
By automating processes that relied previously on costly and tedious Autonomy's technology is currently embedded in over 400 applications manual labour, Autonomy's technology generates substantial top line addressing many markets, and Autonomy's OEM Program continues to growth and bottom line savings.
Rather than simply surfacing information grow at a steady rate, including new and extended agreements with Oracle, for a user to process manually, Autonomy actually performs operations in Symantec, Dassault, Tridion, Tumbleweed, Openwave, Nortel, Talisma, real-time.
As a result, many tasks that were prohibitively expensive Verdasys and Yahoo!.
For example, for a team of people to identify questionable comments in a 20 minute phone conversation that took place Research & Development about six months ago we might have to sift through a thousand hours of As a groundbreaking company founded out of pioneering research at audio.
IDOL can do this in moments, but more importantly, can be applied Cambridge University, Autonomy is proud to maintain its reputation as one proactively to notify the team at the time of the infraction.
The value is in of the most innovative companies in the world.
Autonomy continues to reducing the volume of manual labour, protecting the enterprise from focus on research and development to deliver increasingly innovative unforeseen risk and generating growth by unearthing revenue products to customers and consolidate its position as a market leader.
BAE Systems realized cost savings of an estimated 7 Autonomy's commitment to R&D is evident in the company's continued million in the first year of deployment when IDOL spotted two teams investment in this area, with R&D investment increasing every year.
working on the same problem at different facilities.
They were able to repurpose an entire team as a result.
Autonomy owns all of the technology we offer, and hence eliminates the uncertainty of sourcing and integrating solutions from multiple vendors in a Legally Warranted Results consolidating market space.
No matter what changes take place in the Due to the increasing regulatory burden on the enterprise, and specifically broader market, Autonomy customers will never be left with unsupported in order to comply with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, it is essential technology or software licenses that become non-renewable.
Unlike other that the company can find and understand every document, including any software companies that use development resources to do bespoke metadata, without altering it in any way.
In order to scale without impeding customization of their products, Autonomy sells a broadly applicable, performance, if at the beginning of the process a particular result appears horizontal product, and consequently R&D costs do not need to grow as a to be irrelevant, third party legacy products will stop indexing without taking percentage of revenues.
into consideration the rest of the document.
Consequently, a relevant snippet of information on the last page of a hundred-page report could be As the largest department in the group, the R&D team continues to overlooked and the legal consequences could be catastrophic.
IDOL is the represent the lifeblood of the company.
only technology able to index every document in its entirety, and still provide millisecond response times.
Autonomy's Technology A Different Approach Autonomy's Products Autonomy has developed a fundamental piece of technology that allows In Autonomys fourteen year history our fundamental aim has not changed: computers to understand the meaning of unstructured information and computers should map to our human world and solve our problems, rather process it automatically.
IDOL is the equivalent of the database for than the other way around.
That technology is the Intelligent Data unstructured information.
It sits behind every enterprise application and Operating Layer IDOL.
allows human friendly information to be processed.
IDOL Server Fundamental Technology: 170 Patents At the heart of Autonomys infrastructure software lies IDOL is built upon the seminal mathematical works of Thomas Bayes and the Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL Server.
But how does it work in simple terms?
IDOL Server collects indexed data from connectors and stores it in its proprietary structure, optimized for Imagine we took todays edition of the Wall Street Journal and cut out each fast processing and retrieval of data.
As the of the words, which we pile up in a heap on the desk.
We then ask information processing layer, IDOL forms a somebody wearing a blindfold to pick up the words and stick them onto a conceptual and contextual understanding of all sheet of paper.
The result would be a meaningless jumble of words.
It is a content in an enterprise, automatically analyzing any truly random process.
This tells us that the arrangement of words in the piece of information from over 1,000 different content newspaper is not random, it is biased.
The idea in the mind of the author formats and even peoples interests.
is what biases the words and their pattern.
The word dog is more likely to be followed by the word walk than by the word fly, for example, because Over 500 operations can be performed on digital content by IDOL, including dogs walk they do not fly.
So by studying the preponderance of one pattern hyperlinking, agents, summarization, taxonomy generation, clustering, over another, Autonomy's technology understands that there is X% eduction, profiling, alerting and retrieval.
IDOL enables organizations to probability that the content in question deals with a specific concept.
benefit from automation without losing manual control.
This complementary approach allows automatic processing to be combined with a variety of human controllable overrides, offering the best of both worlds 8 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
