Financial Review holds material cash balances in pounds sterling, U. S. dollars and Euros.
The key risks to which the business is exposed are summarized as follows: The company does not currently undertake currency hedging transactions to cover the companys transaction or translation exposures, but the Our business depends on our core technology, currently marketed company may choose to hedge a portion of these exposures in the future.
under the brand IDOL, and our strategy has been, and for the foreseeable future will continue to be, to concentrate our efforts on The directors believe that the companys current cash and cash equivalents developing and marketing software based on our proprietary and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet the technology.
companys anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital Technology which significantly competes with the companys expenditures for at least the next 12 months.
technology would present a material risk to the company.
Expenditures increasing without a commensurate increase in 1 revenues, and rapid changes in market conditions, could result in poor Supplemental Metrics operating results.
Autonomy is supplying supplemental metrics to assist in the understanding The average selling prices of our products could decrease rapidly, and analysis of Autonomys business.
which may negatively impact revenues and gross margins.
The continuation of unfavourable economic and market conditions.
2009 Our reliance on sales of our products by third parties, such as value 2 Organic Growth 16% added resellers, makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash 3 Cash conversion LTM CFFO LTM adj.
EBITDA......... 80% flow and operating results as we rely on entities not within our control Cash conversion lagged to account for growth and to properly represent, market and forecast sales of our products.
seasonality of the business 91% Our ability to expand sales through indirect sellers.
Cash conversion lagged to account for growth and The continued service of our executive directors.
seasonality of the business and acquired Interwoven The hiring and retention of qualified personnel.
trade debt 99% Errors or defects in our products, which could negatively affect our revenues and the market acceptance of our products and increase our 1 The items in the table above are provided for background information and may costs.
Problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions.
2 The company integrates acquired businesses immediately upon acquisition Claims by others that we infringe on their intellectual property rights.
such that it is not possible to identify results from acquired businesses Our ability to effectively manage our growth.
separately from the results of the group.
In order to estimate organic growth Additional operational and financial risks as we continue to expand our the company has eliminated the estimated contribution from Interwoven from the 2009 results and compared the adjusted result to the 2008 reported international operations.
The estimated contribution from Interwoven in 2009 is derived from Any breach of our security measures and unauthorised access to a the 2008 reported amounts for Interwoven after adjusting for discontinued customers or our data.
EBITDA is defined as operating cash flow before movements in working The companys policies applicable to employees addressing key business capital.
risks, including financial, communications, whistle blowing and health and safety, are made available through policy manuals and the companys Key Risks intranet site.
Autonomy operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within its control.
The The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the following discussion identifies the most significant risks that may adversely company are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such affect the companys business, operations, liquidity, financial position or processes, in addition to those discussed above, include strategic planning, future performance.
This section should be read carefully in conjunction appointing highly skilled managers with accountability, regular monitoring of with the Forward-Looking Statements on page 73 of this document.
The performance and setting and communicating high standards and targets for Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing the risk management ethics, safety and health.
processes and procedures, and conducts a regular review of activities.
Sushovan Hussain Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2010 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
