Business Overview This section explains how Autonomy operates, including our vision, the nature of our IDOL technology, a description of our customer base, through to our markets and business model.
Autonomys vision is to enable computers to be able to process human An Introduction to Autonomy friendly, unstructured information such as emails, voice messages and Founded in 1996 with a unique combination of technologies borne out of videos, based on its meaning.
So the computer can watch emails being research at Cambridge University, Autonomy has experienced a meteoric sent within a bank and identify those that mean there is a compliance rise.
The company currently has a market capitalization in the range of problem.
Or listen to calls in a contact centre and identify a number of calls $6 billion, is one of the three largest software companies in Europe and has all about the same product issue, perhaps an exploding battery, and alert a offices worldwide.
Autonomy is a global leader in infrastructure software for supervisor.
Autonomy does for unstructured information what the database the enterprise that helps organizations to derive meaning and value from is capable of doing for structured information.
their business information whether unstructured, semi-structured or structured, as well as mitigate the risks associated with those same assets.
The fundamental idea is simple: computers should map to our human world and solve our problems, rather than the other way around.
This is Autonomy's position as the market leader is widely recognized by leading the biggest change in the IT industry to date, because it is the first real industry analysts including Gartner, Forrester Research, IDC and Ovum.
change to the I the information, unlike the many recent changes to the T the technology, such as the shift to the client server model, or cloud Autonomys Vision computing.
As a result, Autonomys technology is applicable to every area Think back to the late 1960s when computers first started to be used for of IT, and is consistently rated the leader across analyst reports in many business.
At that time computers were far too basic to understand the rich areas of software from enterprise search to eDiscovery, and through our forms of information that human beings exchange every day.
So the OEMs even in areas where Autonomy does not itself compete, such as solution was to take human friendly information and distil it into a much content leak prevention.
simpler form the rows and columns of a database.
So if a person lives at 3 Acacia Avenue that information is entered into the particular row and We call this phenomenon Meaning Based Computing MBC.
column of the database that is for the first line of the address.
The information is structured so that its position tells the computer what it Meaning Based Computing MBC means.
So the computer could then identify, for example, that column When computers understand information, they can start to process it three, row four was the amount of inventory in the warehouse, and when automatically and begin to bring information to the user rather than the that number went close to zero it could automatically issue a purchase other way round.
For example, by forming an understanding, computers order to replenish the warehouse.
It had automated a business process, can automatically create taxonomies, alert users to new and relevant and replaced a human being who would have had to do the job manually.
information in real-time or automatically profile an individuals interests based on what they read and write, offering them interesting information This was the birth of the modern IT industry.
Today, behind every piece of without the need to search, or introductions to helpful experts and similar enterprise software there is a database.
It might be software to administer people.
Autonomys technology is able to cluster information, identifying a hospital or a CRM system all have a database at their core, and then inherent themes or clusters of conceptually similar information.
In addition, usually a tailored interface to make different operations possible depending using this approach it is possible to detect irregularities in everyday scenes on the use case.
for security purposes, identify well-known speakers in broadcast media and analyze conversations to detect positive or negative sentiment.
The But what if computers could actually understand information in its rich, possibilities are virtually limitless.
unstructured form, and automatically do useful things with it?
6 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
