Corporate Responsibility electronically to customers.
Outmoded office equipment and computers are Ethical Business Practices resold or recycled to the extent practicable.
Autonomy is a software development and sales company based in the UK with overseas sales and development operations.
Autonomy does not The company recognises the increasing importance of environmental have manufacturing operations.
All employees are expected to behave issues and these are discussed at Board level when appropriate.
A ethically when working for the company and this is reflected in our policies number of initiatives continued in 2009.
An environmental action plan is which are detailed in the staff handbook.
implemented at group and departmental level through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that Charitable Giving when targets are set for improvement they are realistic and meaningful, The company maintains a number of charitable giving policies.
Our core ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working philanthropic foundation under the corporate commitment programme is with suppliers to improve environmental management along the supply education.
The company also budgets annually for specific charitable chain.
The company has recycling facilities in all of our primary offices, and requests from individual staff members, in areas where we have an waste paper is minimised by promoting paperless processes and opportunity to make a significant and measurable impact in the non-profit downloadable software products.
We have also operated a carbon neutral sector.
air cooling system during the hottest months of the year at our headquarters in Cambridge.
Renewable energy sources are also being The companys matching gift programme matches employee donations to investigated.
The provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing facilities non-profit organizations meeting the companys requirements for charitable at the companys Cambridge, San Francisco, Pleasanton, Munich and donations.
Finally, the company permits employees to volunteer a certain Dallas offices facilitate greener commuting, and the extensive provision of number of hours of paid time per year to the charity of their choice provided telephone and video conferencing equipment offer an alternative to that the charitable organization meets the companys general requirements international travel, where appropriate.
The companys environmental for charitable donations.
policy is published on our website.
The company actively encourages every employee to work together to In terms of products, certain technical innovations during 2009 have also meet the requirements of all of the above policies.
given us the ability to reduce power consumption in the server architecture we make available to customers by over 85%.
By order of the Board, As noted above, the company monitors key consumption indicators, most effectively at our headquarters in Cambridge, UK where we have the largest number of employees.
