Directors and Senior Management Autonomy is led by a highly experienced management team.
They bring together extensive expertise covering multiple facets of information technology, its constituent sectors and markets.
Biographical details of the directors and senior management are as follows: Sushovan Hussain, Board Director and Board of Directors Chief Financial Officer, aged 45, has served as Chief Financial Officer since June 2001 and Chairman was appointed a Director in June 2003.
Prior Robert S. Webb QC Queen's Counsel, aged to joining Autonomy, Mr. Hussain worked for 61, was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman LASMO plc, one of the world's largest of the Board in May 2009.
From 1998 through independent oil and gas exploration the end of March 2009, Mr. Webb served as companies, where he held a number of senior General Counsel at British Airways, and in that international financial positions, including three role was responsible for the legal function with years in the Corporate Development oversight of Government and Industry Affairs, department, charged with acquisitions and Safety and Security, Risk Management, divestments.
Mr. Hussain received his BA in Economics from Cambridge Business Continuity and British Airways Health University, England, and became a qualified Chartered Accountant while Services, and was also variously responsible employed at Ernst & Young in London.
for Environmental Policy and Corporate Responsibility.
Prior to joining British Airways, Mr. Webb was called to The Bar, Inner Temple 1971, and appointed Queen's Counsel in 1988.
Non-Executive Directors Mr. Webb served as Head of Chambers, 5 Bell Yard, London, from 1988 to Barry Ariko, Board Director, aged 64, has 1998: Recorder of the Crown Court from 1993 to 1998: Bencher, Inner served as a non-executive director of Temple 1997: and as Chairman of the International Relations Committee of Autonomy since January 2000 and has spent the Bar Council 1997 8.
Mr. Webb's other current engagements include: his entire career in the computer and software non-executive Director of the London Stock Exchange since 2001, where industry.
From November 2003 to November he serves as Chair of the Remuneration Committee: non-executive Director 2007, Mr. Ariko served as Chairman and CEO of the BBC since 2007: Chair of BBC Worldwide since 2009: non-executive of Mirapoint, Inc. a leader in messaging Director of Hakluyt, a private business research company, since 2005, networks.
He was Chairman and CEO of where he serves as Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and nonExtricity, Inc. a leader in B2B workflow executive Director of Argent Group Limited, a property company, since April software, from January 2000 until May 2001 2009. when it was acquired by Peregrine Systems now part of Hewlett Packard.
He was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Netscape Communications, Inc. from August 1998 until Executive Directors it was acquired by AOL.
From April 1994 to August 1998, Mr. Ariko was Dr. Michael Lynch OBE FREng, Managing Executive Vice President in charge of the Americas operations for Oracle Director and Chief Executive Officer, aged Corp. Mr. Ariko also serves as a director of Incyte Corp. a U. S. public 44, co-founded Autonomy and has served as company doing small molecule drug discovery, as well as for a number of Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer private companies and non-profits.
Mr. Ariko holds a BS in Management since our inception in March 1996.
Dr. Lynch is from Golden Gate University in San Francisco and has completed the also a non-executive director of the BBC, blinkx Advanced Executive Program at Northwestern University's J. L. Kellogg Plc and Featurespace Limited, and a trustee of Graduate School of Management.
the U. K. s National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Dr. Lynch holds an M. A. in electrical and information sciences, a Richard Gaunt, Board Director, aged 42, coPh.
D in adaptive techniques in signal founded Autonomy and has served as an processing and connectionist models and held a research fellowship in executive and non-executive director at times adaptive pattern recognition at Cambridge University.
Dr. Lynch was since our inception in March 1996.
Mr. Gaunt named the Confederation of British Industry's Entrepreneur of the Year, holds a BSc in electronic engineering and an won an IEE Award for Outstanding Achievement and was awarded an OBE MSc from the University of Natal in Durban.
Dr. Lynch is also a Lady Margaret Beaufort Mr. Gaunt was appointed to the Board when Fellow of Christ's College, Cambridge, and the author of a number of Autonomy was founded in 1996, and has academic papers on the subject of Pattern Recognition and Signal served only as a non-executive director since Processing.
Dr. Lynch was appointed to the Board when Autonomy was 2006. founded in 1996.
18 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors and Senior Management Non-Executive Directors continued Andrew M. Kanter, Chief Operating Officer John McMonigall, Board Director, aged 66, and General Counsel, aged 40, joined has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy in August 2000 as VP, International Autonomy since July 1998.
Since April 1990, Operations and Legal Affairs, and has served Mr. McMonigall has been a partner with Apax as our COO since 2001.
Prior to joining Partners Worldwide LLP, the private equity Autonomy, through 2000 Mr. Kanter was an firm, where he specializes in associate attorney with Brobeck Hale and Dorr telecommunications, software and related in London, engaged in international mergers fields.
From 1986 to 1990, Mr. McMonigall and acquisitions and corporate finance.
held a variety of positions at British Telecom Through 1999, Mr. Kanter was an associate where he served as a member of the attorney at Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in San Management Board.
He currently serves on Francisco, and prior to that was an associate the board of Dialog Semiconductor Plc.
Mr. attorney with Shearman & Sterling, San Francisco.
Mr. Kanter was Clerk to McMonigall also serves on the boards of several privately owned Hon.
Christine Miller of the U. S. Court of Federal Claims, Washington, DC.
Mr. Kanter holds a J. D. from the University of Southern California and a B.
A. from Johns Hopkins University, and also studied at Kansai University of Foreign Studies, Osaka, Japan.
Richard N. Perle, Board Director, aged 66, has served as a non-executive director of Autonomy since February 2000.
Mr. Perle has Nicole Eagan, Chief Marketing Officer, aged served as Resident Fellow of the American 45, joined the Autonomy group as Chief Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research Marketing Officer in January 2006.
From 1981 to 1987 he was the working for Autonomy Ms. Eagan served Verity United States Assistant Secretary of Defence as a Senior Vice President of Marketing and for International Security Policy, and from 2001 Chief Marketing Officer from June 2005. through 2003 served as Chairman of the U. S. Before joining Verity, Ms. Eagan was Vice Defence Policy Board.
Mr. Perle is a director of President, Global Marketing at Quest Software, Tapestry Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a an application, database and Windows pharmaceutical company focused on the management company from 2004 to 2005. development of proprietary therapies for the treatment of cancer.
He is a Prior to Quest, Ms. Eagan was the Senior Vice director of FNSS, a joint venture between Nurol a Turkish company and President of Global Marketing at Peregrine from 2001 to 2004.
He is a consultant to Clarium Capital, a U. S. based also held senior marketing, strategy and business development positions at hedge fund.
Mr. Perle attended the London School of Economics with Extricity, a business process management company and Oracle Honours Examinations, received an M. A. in politics from Princeton Corporation.
Ms. Eagan holds a B. S. from Montclair University, N. J.
A. from the University of Southern California in international relations, and completed various fellowships at Princeton University, the Ford Foundation and the American Council of Learned Stouffer Egan, CEO Autonomy, Inc. aged Societies.
41, joined Autonomy in March 2001 as Director of Global Accounts.
He has served as our Chief Executive Officer, Autonomy, Inc. since Executive Management 2002.
Prior to joining Autonomy, from February 2000 through to March 2001, Mr. Egan was Dr. Peter Menell, D. Phil.
Oxon, Chief Vice President of Corporate Development for Technology Officer, aged 43, joined LeadingSide Inc. From January 1995 through Autonomy's Engineering and Technology February 2000, Mr. Egan held various positions Solutions unit in 1998 and has served as Chief with Dataware Technologies, most recently as Technology Officer since 2004.
During that VP, Corporate Development.
Mr. Egan holds a time he has overseen a number of significant B.
A. in Economics from Trinity College, CT. advances in Autonomy technology, including key new patents filed, and been responsible for the successful deployment of Autonomy software at multi-divisional organizations across the globe.
Prior to joining Autonomy, Dr. Menell conducted computational and neuro-physiology research.
from York University and a D. Phil.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
