Business Overview and never requiring an either or choice.
IDOL integrates with all known expertise and a global presence which allows Autonomy to run an legacy systems, eliminating the need for organizations to cobble together incredibly efficient sales operation.
multiple systems to support their disparate components.
OEMs Brands Autonomy has over 400 Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM The proliferation of unstructured information is occurring in every industry relationships with other major software vendors that build our technology from manufacturing to financial services.
The IDOL platform is a horizontal into their products.
These OEMs span every software sector from CRM to technology that is used across every industry vertical sector.
We use Product Lifecycle Management software.
An OEM pays an upfront nondifferent virtual brands to accelerate the adoption of IDOL in these refundable fee and then writes its new product which can take up to two different vertical markets, including the following primary brands: years depending on its product roadmap and release cycle.
Once the product is launched they make license payments of around three percent of product sales to Autonomy.
This we would expect to expand over time as IDOL branded to automate the retrieval, OEM customers embed more IDOL functionality in subsequent product processing, and management of global enterprise releases.
information Product IDOL branded for Business Process Customers who purchase a license for Autonomys software initially pay an Management solutions, embedding selfAverage Selling Price of around $400,000.
A typical initial contract will understanding into documents to increase process efficiency and ensure compliance likely include four of Autonomys 500 functions and around four connectors.
The pricing model is based on three drivers of value: the number of users, IDOL branded for Meaning Based Marketing the number of functions connectors and the amount of information being offering intelligent solutions for targeting and processed: any two will be prevalent in a particular use case.
For example, engagement, online marketing optimization, web in intelligence processing type applications it will be the amount of data content management all on a common platform rather than number of users that is the dominant factor, but in a corporate environment for a knowledge portal it may well be the large number of users that determines the pricing.
In addition to the upfront license IDOL branded for information management in the legal and professional services market payment these customers also pay support and maintenance, based on standard pricing as a percentage of the license price per annum, which renews on an annual basis.
IDOL branded for Customer Interaction solutions to automate interaction and provide immediate Hosted Solutions intelligence on industry trends and customer Autonomy also operates  behaviour SaaS and hosted solutions, where Autonomy IDOL branded for Rich Media Management in software is run on hardware owned by Autonomy in broadcast production, archive management, one of our data centres.
In fact, Autonomy runs Internet TV and IPTV applications, and Security the largest managed archive in the world at over 12 and Surveillance solutions facilitating real-time petabytes of data.
surveillance, detection and protection operations Appliance IDOL branded for information governance, archiving, policy management and eDiscovery Currently a small part of the business focused on quick time-to-value and applications high return.
Where customers have an urgent need to deploy IDOL, either for regulatory or commercial imperatives, we are able to provide a complete solution installable on a turnkey basis to be used in a discrete part of the customer's business.
The value of these solutions is in the high end Business Model functions they offer in a complete package, and thus the margin profile is Autonomy's unique business model enables highly efficient and profitable not dissimilar to our traditional license business.
indirect distribution of Autonomy's technology.
Autonomy's business is the development and licensing of world-leading technology for the automated processing of all forms of unstructured information, working with worldFinancial Model leading organizations to sell and implement Autonomy solutions.
Autonomy is one of the very rare examples of a pure software model.
Autonomys OEM customers bring Autonomy technology to vertical markets Many software companies have a large percentage of revenues that stems by embedding it in their own solutions.
Autonomy benefits from the from professional services, because they have to do a lot of customisation expertise of a community of systems integrators and consultants who work on the product for every single implementation.
In contrast, Autonomy engage with customers to expand and sustain use of Autonomy products in ships a standard product that requires little tailoring, with the necessary a wide variety of industries.
implementation work carried out by approved partners such as IBM Global Services, Accenture and others.
This means that after the cost base has Indirect been covered, for every extra dollar of revenue that comes in significant Autonomy has over 400 Value Added Resellers such as Accenture, IBM benefits can fall straight through to the bottom line.
What this offers is a Global Services, Cap Gemini, HP and Wipro.
This is Autonomys primary business model with a proven record of strong operating leverage and that revenue channel.
Autonomy has a team of partner managers who attend is expected to continue to deliver industry leading operating margins and occasional client meetings and ensure that customers receive the revenue to cash conversion.
appropriate level of service, but these partners offer domain specific Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9
