HEALTH & SAFETY REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 Health & safety H&S is a group priority, integrated into everything levels across the business: we do, from the Group Board to every colleague in every branch, store, Collection of colleague feedback on the Personal Protective warehouse or office.
Our underlying philosophy is that all injuries Equipment PPE provided across the Group, including gloves, are avoidable, however, we do not under-estimate the challenge of footwear and hard hats.
This resulted in the launch of improved cut achieving this in a Group with 1,300 branches, making in excess of resistant gloves and a new design of hard-hat, providing side impact 6 million deliveries per annum.
We aim to be industry leaders in our protection and an improved fastening mechanism, that negates the sector for the reduction and elimination of injuries.
In addition to improving personal protection, During 2009, we have continued improving our standards, with the 50% reduction in cuts to the hand, both items provided a clear leaders in each of our businesses owning and driving our Stay Safe demonstration to all colleagues of our increased commitment to culture change programme.
Stay Safe requires effective leadership, a their safety.
The launch of the new PPE during 2009 was supported focus on the eight key risks in our business and the desire to have by a poster campaign following a competition across the Group.
The everyone return home safely at the end of each working day.
We recogwinning entry, from Mercedes Gully, aged 7, whose father is the nise that we are still in the early stages of our Stay Safe programme, Branch Manager of the Keyline branch in Cowbridge, was a simple but we have already made considerable progress in achieving our request that struck a chord with everyone in the business: vision of making injuries a rare occurrence.
The involvement of every colleague, customer and supplier is essential since working together is the only way to truly make injuries rare.
Our electronic accident reporting system has proved useful in recording a much more accurate representation of our true H&S performance, but we continue to encourage reporting of all minor incidents and near misses.
HEALTH & SAFETY PERFORMANCE AND INITIATIVES The 2009 H&S performance was considerably improved when compared to 2008, with significant reductions in both the frequency and severity of lost time injuries, measured according to industry standards.
The group frequency rate of 10.6 lost time injuries per million hours worked is a 12% improvement on 2008, whilst the group severity rate Improved training programmes, including: two e-learning packages of 0.17 days lost per thousand hours worked shows a 30% improvefor fire safety: online quizzes to test learning following internal ment on the 2008 level.
Despite these significant improvements, we briefings: implementation of the Setting Foundations induction recognise that this is very much the start of a long journey to make programme in the specialist merchant businesses: updating of the injuries rare, and we intend to reduce further both frequency and Master Programme training scheme in Wickes: establishment of a severity rates over the next five years.
driver CPC ongoing training programme: bespoke training for yard External inspections of branches by enforcement officers continued colleagues and drivers on safe handling of products during loading: to show a favourable improvement in performance and standards: and unloading and banksman training on the public highway: Regular briefings for senior managers and directors, on topics such EHO Notices 2009 2008 2007 2006 as Visible Felt Leadership and legislative updates: No.
Incorporating the quarterly newsletter, Your Safety Matters into Prohibition - - 8 7 the centre pages of the group internal magazine, the Bridge has increased its circulation to 15,000 and subsequent interest in the Improvement 4 8 9 29 Stay Safe messages and competitions.
The reductions were achieved as a result of numerous initiatives under the Stay Safe development programme.
These included: Continuous Improvement to Travis Perkins Group Vehicle Analysis of injury data from 2008 and 2009, which has enabled us Standards to make accurate, measured decisions based on risk and historical In 2009, we introduced to new vehicles further changes to provide data, to prevent further injuries.
Stressing the personal impact of safer access for the driver.
These designs featured in a Health & Safety injuries to individuals, and predicting future injuries across the Executive case study on working at height, to showcase the innovabusiness if we continue at the current level, have proven extremely tive solutions businesses were adopting to reduce the possibility of the effective at increasing personal commitment and buy-in at all driver falling from height.
H E A L T H & S A F E T Y R E P O R T 51 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Improved Driver - Working Practices Feedback from Branch Colleagues on the H&S Messages We recognise the need to ensure our drivers can Stay Safe at all times, and Notices and this has resulted in a change in our approach to Staying Safe This has resulted in the development of a Stay Safe communication during deliveries.
Keep Your Feet on the Ground is our new Stay Safe board in 2009, to be launched to all businesses in early 2010.
Rather initiative for 2009 10, and is centred on vehicle loading and unloading than simply having a board to display notices, the communication techniques, designed to minimise or remove the need for the driver to board is designed to be an interactive means of communication in access the vehicle bed.
The simple principles, behind Keep Your Feet the branches.
The primary purpose of these boards is to provide a On the Ground, like many of the best ideas, are suggestions from our focal point for communicating local issues and hazards, based on the own drivers.
8 key risks behind Stay Safe.
During trials, the Board has received a This project will allow the majority of our deliveries to be made with really positive response, to support the branches that are living health the drivers feet on the ground, and will remove one of our most signifi- & safety every day.
cant hazards working at height on the vehicle bed.
Quarterly H&S committee meetings, held in each branch, with the PLC BOARD HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE agenda set by the H&S team, supplemented by local issues.
This forum The Boards H&S Committee was established in November 2007 and to drive the Stay Safe message in the branch has proved to be increascontinues to encourage and assist the Groups executive management ingly effective during 2009, with regional directors attending many of in its drive towards achieving and maintaining industry-leading stanthe meetings to lead from the front.
This forum was also utilised in dards in health & safety.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing 2009 to brief colleagues on updates to several risk assessments in the H&S policies, practices and group performance to ensure they meet H&S manual along with a revised fire risk assessment procedure.
or exceed legal obligations and contribute to the achievement of the Groups H&S objectives.
Chaired by me, with Tim Stevenson and Chief Operating Officer John LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE Carter as permanent members, the Committee also invited the Group Lost time injuries per million man hours HR Director and Group Head of H&S to attend both its meetings during the year.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate, using the resources of the Group Head of H&S, any activity relating to its purpose and role.
The full terms of reference of the H&S Committee are available on the Companys website, or, on request from the Company Secretary.
TRADING BOARD HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE The terms of reference and membership of the Trading Board H&S 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 Committee were revised in March 2008, so as to reflect the increasing commitment to achieving industry leading performance.
Membership throughout 2009 comprised the Chief Operating Officer, John Carter, LOST TIME INJURY SEVERITY RATE as Chairman, together with the Group HR Director, business unit managing directors, divisional chairmen and the Group Head of H&S.
Days lost per thousand man hours The Committee met 4 times during 2009 to review performance and to continue the development of the Stay Safe programme.
This committee is leading the drive to fully engage with the hearts and minds of all colleagues.
