WHO WE ARE Travis Perkins, a major plc, is a main supplier to the building and The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced back over 200 years construction market, one of the largest industries in the UK.
to 1797 when a carpentry company was first established in London: The present day Company was formed in 1988 out of a merger Travis and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership in 1899.
During between Travis and Arnold plc, a company with strong Midlands and the early to mid 20th century both businesses expanded before evenNorthern based business, and Sandell Perkins plc, a company with an tually becoming listed public companies, Travis and Arnold was the first equivalent strength in the South of England.
to the market in 1964, followed 22 years later by Sandell Perkins.
Andrew Pike Carol Kavanagh Martin Meech Robin Proctor Norman Bell Company Secretary Group Human Group Property Director Supply Chain Director Category Management and Lawyer Resources Director Director OUR GROUP MISSION OUR GROUP VISION Continue to deliver better returns by... putting in place To ensure that anyone in Britain who wants to access and growing the best businesses, with outstanding any kind of building materials through any form of supply people and operations, providing comprehensive building channel will have a Travis Perkins group operation as material solutions, to everyone creating, maintaining, their first or first alternative choice.
repairing or improving the built environment, helping to build Britain.
OUR GROUP VALUES At Travis Perkins, we: Know our customers we understand their needs, beat Like to deliver we enjoy being the best: we know their expectations, treat them with respect, and know our exactly what each of us is expected to achieve: we focus major customers personally.
Talk and listen we say what we mean clearly and Work together we actively work with each other: when honestly, we listen carefully: we respond objectively, we something goes wrong, the first thing we will do is fix the explain our decisions.
problem: not look for someone to blame.
Are with you, not against you we seek mutual benefits Always try to get better we constructively challenge with all stakeholders: we think about the impact of our how we work: we look for fresh ideas that are different: actions: we search for similarities.
we only have rules where they are necessary because we use our common sense.
Know how to do our jobs not just today, but for the next job: we equip ourselves with the skills needed to Are proud to be here this is a great company: everyone perform and be confident we can perform.
working with us is welcome: we make work enjoyable for everyone.
4 W H O W E A R E 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 RETAIL DIVISION The retail division comprises two businesses Wickes, a national chain The Managing Director of Wickes is Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes of DIY retail outlets and Tile Giant a ceramic tile merchant acquired seventeen years ago and has fulfilled various roles including that of in 2007.
Wickes stores are designed to appeal to tradesmen, who undertake In 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh brand, Tile Giant whilst general repairs, maintenance and improvement projects for housein 2008 this business acquired Tile Magic, a 17 store chain and Tile it holds and small businesses and to serious DIY customers, who carry All a 16 store chain.
In 2009 Travis Perkins acquired Tile HQ an internet out more complete DIY projects.
These customers are more demanding based retailer of ceramic and stone tiles.
The brand is now trading from in terms of service, quality and price.
The Company meets these expectations by offering a focussed Under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, the Managing Director of Tile Giant, range of high quality primarily own brand, competitively priced home the brand offers a strong pipeline for further expansion.
improvement products, such as timber, building materials, tools and decorative materials.
In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of kitchens ToolStation and bathrooms, which are sold through in-store showrooms.
In 2008, the Group invested in a 30% share of a direct retailer of lightWickes, which opened its first store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in side products.
This multi-channel business has a strong internet and Manchester was acquired by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the Company catalogue based business and a rapidly expanding store network which now operates from 195 stores nationwide.
had extended to 59 stores throughout Great Britain by the end of 2009.
Jeremy Bird Mo Iqbal Divisional Chairman MD Tile Giant and MD Wickes W H O W E A R E 5 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 MERCHANTING DIVISION The merchanting division of Travis Perkins plc supplies building matereplace him Andrew Popple, who had been a regional director for over rials to specialist and generalist professional tradesman throughout 10 years, was promoted to Managing Director in October 2009.
The customers of the four general merchanting regional businesses The core businesses of Travis and Arnold plc and Sandell Perkins are primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to plc formed, following the merger in 1988, what is now the general national housebuilders, whose key requirements are product range merchanting business within the merchanting division.
It trades and availability, competitive pricing and customer service.
nationally through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises four indiThe strategy of the general merchanting business aims to increase vidual businesses.
market share through implementation of our Best Practice programme Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group since 1974, leads the and ongoing branch network expansion.
The Best Practice programme is business in his role as Divisional Chairman.
The Managing Directors designed to enhance our overall service to trade customers and covers of the four regional businesses are Ian Church Travis Perkins all of their key requirements: even though all four general merchanting Midlands, Phil Gransden Travis Perkins South East, Andrew Popple businesses are already operating to high standards in these areas they Travis Perkins Northern and Mark Nottingham Travis Perkins South have stretching targets in place to deliver further improvements.
During the year Norman Bell, formerly Managing Director of Network expansion will be concentrated on Local Authority and Travis Perkins South West, was appointed to the new role of Category Housing Association store projects in the short term: potential exists to Management Director with Mark Nottingham, formerly Managing double the number of such outlets over the next few years.
Director of Travis Perkins Northern moving to the South West.
To Joe Mescall Ian Church Phil Gransden Andrew Popple Mark Nottingham Divisional Chairman MD Midlands MD South East MD Northern MD South West 6 W H O W E A R E 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 MERCHANTING DIVISION The specialist merchanting business of the merchanting division and heating market.
The Company offers high quality products and consists of four separate businesses trading under the following brands: expert service to the trade.
The Managing Director of City Plumbing Keyline, City Plumbing Supplies, CCF and Benchmarx.
It is led by the Supplies is John Frost who joined the Travis Perkins group in 1983.
He has worked in merchanting During 2009, City Plumbing Supplies established a new heating spares for over thirty years having joined Keyline prior to its acquisition by the business under a leader who previously performed a similar role with a Travis Perkins group.
In preparation for any market upturn, the businesses have strengthCCF is a leading supplier of interior building products to the construcened and re-organised their external selling resources to focus on tion industry.
It operates throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop market growth sectors.
This initiative is being led by the Divisions to its customers from its nationwide branch network.
CCFs Managing Commercial Sales Director, David Stewart, who has been with the Group Director is Kieran Griffin who joined the Group in 1995 and progressed for 23 years and who was formerly Managing Director of Keyline.
via its management training scheme, branch management and regional Andrew Harrison, formerly Managing Director of Benchmarx, has management roles, to the position of Managing Director.
been with the Group since 1989.
He became Managing Director of In 2006 Benchmarx became the first group brand to be created as Keyline in succession to David Stewart, in July 2009.
Keyline is a a completely new business within a market adjacent to the markets specialist merchant supplying heavy building materials and civils and already served by the Group.
Based mainly in the South East, the busidrainage solutions to the construction industry throughout the UK.
ness is a leading supplier of kitchen and joinery products to the trade Keyline is known for its knowledgeable staff and excellent delivery through its competitive pricing, quality products and knowledgeable service.
Benchmarx is led by Chris Larkin, formerly a regional director City Plumbing Supplies is a major nationwide plumbing and heating within Travis Perkins South East, who became Managing Director in merchant serving both the contract market and the general plumbing succession to Andrew Harrison in July 2009.
Arthur Davidson Andrew Harrison John Frost Kieran Griffin Chris Larkin Divisional Chairman MD Keyline MD City Plumbing MD CCF MD Benchmarx W H O W E A R E 7 17334 proof 3 1 4 10
