DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the Walker, Chris Bunker and John Coleman continue to be effective in, and year ended 31 December 2009. committed to, their roles as non-executive directors, and in particular that Robert Walker is suitably qualified to succeed him as Chairman.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be indemTravis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home nified out of the assets of the Company in respect of any liability improvement retailers in the UK.
The principal activities of the Group incurred in relation to the affairs of the Company, or any associate are the sale of timber, building materials, and plumbing and heating company, to the extent the law allows.
In this regard, the Company is products, and the hiring of tools, to the building trade, industry generrequired to disclose that under article 146 of the Companys Articles ally and the general public, within the United Kingdom.
The Directors of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity, to the are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act the Groups activities in the next year.
2006 against liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity is currently in force.
In ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW addition, if proceedings against Directors are instituted subsequent A review of the Groups position, developments and future prospects to any person acquiring control of the Company, the Company has is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, the Chief agreed with each of the Directors that pursuant to article 146 D of Executives review of the year on pages 10 to 24, the Chief Operating the Companys Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a Officers review of the year on pages 25 to 34 and the Finance Director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet expenditure Directors review of the year on pages 36 to 43.
A review of the Groups incurred by that director in defending any criminal or civil proceedings.
environmental performance is contained in the Chief Executives review A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which contains this of the year on pages 10 to 24. indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS and during the period of 30 minutes prior to the Companys forthThe Group results for the year ended 31 December 2009 are set out coming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is not recommending the payment of a dividend None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to which the for 2009 Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party during the year.
The Company has undertaken to comply with the best practice BALANCE SHEET AND POST BALANCE on approval of directors conflicts of interests in accordance with the SHEET EVENTS Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a The balance sheet on pages 74 and 75 shows the Groups finandirector must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct cial position.
No significant events have occurred since the balance or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the sheet date.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2009, including PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES holdings, if any, of wives and of children aged under 18, were as detailed A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 63. in the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 38 to 43.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS As at 23 February 2010, the Company had received notification under The names of the Directors at 31 December 2009, together with their the Disclosure Transparency Rules that the holdings and voting rights biographical details, are set out on pages 44 and 45.
All of those exceeding the 3% notification threshold were as follows: Directors held office throughout the year except Robert Walker and Number % Philip Jansen who were appointed non-executive directors on 30th AXA 14,816,798 7.10 September 2009 and 9 April 2009 respectively.
In accordance with Sprucegrove Investment Management 9,768,326 4.68 the Companys Articles of Association, Robert Walker, Chris Bunker, Legal and General Investment Management 8,293,429 3.98 John Coleman and Geoff Cooper will retire and, being eligible, will offer Investec Asset Management 7,967,886 3.82 themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
E. R. A. Travis 7,757,047 3.72 Geoff Cooper has a rolling 12 month notice period in his contract.
The Travis Perkins Employee As non-executive directors, Robert Walker, Chris Bunker and John Share Ownership Trust 7,000,690 3.36 Coleman do not have service contracts.
In the light of the evaluation C. M. Travis 6,993,138 3.35 of their performances as a result of the process described on page 48, Ignis Asset Management 6,783,735 3.25 Tim Stevenson, Chairman, confirms on behalf of the Board that Robert D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T 65 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 C. M. Travis and E. R. A. Travis have each disclosed their voting rights STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF over the same 3,735,446 ordinary shares in aggregate, by virtue of INFORMATION TO AUDITORS each of them being a trustee of the same Travis family trusts which Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this held ordinary shares.
report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information CLOSE COMPANY STATUS of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have 1988 do not apply to the Company.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are EMPLOYEES AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS aware of that information.
Statements on these matters are contained in the Chief Operating This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Officers review of the year on pages 25 to 29 and in the Chief the provisions of s. 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Executives review of the year on page 22, respectively.
Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found SHARE CAPITAL AND CHANGE OF CONTROL in note 7 to the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2009 the Company had an authorised share capital The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and recognises of 400,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with an aggregate the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
It has an equal opportuninominal value of 40,000,000 and an allotted and fully paid share ties policy aimed at ensuring that employment decisions are based on capital of 208,631,466 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with an ability and potential regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin aggregate nominal value of 20,863,147 including shares owned by or sexual orientation, age or disability.
In particular, applications for the employee share ownership trust.
The ordinary shares are listed on employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing the London Stock Exchange.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights in mind the aptitudes of the person concerned.
In the event of a and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure Articles of Association.
Fully paid shares in the Company are freely that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate transferable.
There are no persons that hold securities carrying special training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the structure career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far of the Companys share capital and changes in the share capital during as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
the year are also included in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Groups policies and practices have been designed to keep The Travis Perkins Employee Share Ownership Trust owns 7,000,690 employees informed on matters relevant to them as employees through shares in the Company 3.36% for use in connection with the Companys regular meetings and newsletters.
Employee representatives are share schemes.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their interests.
shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any All employees with more than three months service are eligible to recommendation of the Company.
participate in the Companys Sharesave and Buy as You Earn plans.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between POLITICAL DONATIONS holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor securities or on voting rights.
did it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur any EU The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board political expenditure during the year.
members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of the Companys SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In The Groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in accordance with particular, the Board has the power to purchase its own shares and established terms.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2009 repreis seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual General sented 52 days 31 December 2008: 47 days of average purchases Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
The Companys trade creditors at 31 December There are a number of agreements to which the Company is a 2009 represented 30 days 2008: 30 days.
party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
None of these agreements is considered to be AUDITORS significant in the context of the Company as a whole.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors and to authorise the Directors to fix the auditors remuneration will be or employees on a change of control of the Company.
As set out in proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
the Directors Remuneration Report on page 58, service contracts for 66 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 executive directors do not specify any particular level of compensation Resolution 9: Limited Authority to Allot Shares for Cash in the event of termination following change of control of the Company.
This resolution would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary As noted above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Company elects to hold in that it shall provide a Director with funds subject to certain restrictreasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in tions to meet expenditure incurred in defending any criminal or civil proportion to their existing shareholdings.
proceedings if such proceedings are instituted subsequent to any Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority would be person acquiring control of the Company.
limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL of those shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or BUSINESS otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,043,188 repreThe Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Northampton senting 10,431,878 ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of NN5 5BG on Monday 17 May 2010 at 11.45 a. m. A buffet lunch will the Company as at 23 February 2010, the latest practicable date be available.
The following items are to be proposed at the forthcoming prior to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate nominal Annual General Meeting as items of special business, and the Board amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of recommends that shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative before the Annual General Meeting.
usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without Resolution 7: Directors Remuneration Report prior consultation with shareholders.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph b of resolu- 2002, this resolution seeks shareholders approval of the Directors tion 8 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue only Remuneration Report as set out on pages 53 to 63. subject to the right of the board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional entitlements and regulaResolution 8: Renewal of Authority to Allot Shares tory matters.
Paragraph a of this resolution would give the Directors the authority The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2011 the last date to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2011 6,954,585 representing 69,545,850 ordinary shares of 10 pence and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held each.
This amount represents approximately one-third of the issued in 2011.
Any issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to ordinary share capital of the Company as at 23 February 2010, the the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers Resolution 10: Notice of Meetings the ABI, paragraph b of this resolution would give the Directors Under the Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders authority to allot ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in Rights Regulations, the notice period for general meetings of a favour of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount company has been extended to 21 days unless certain requirements equal to 13,909,170 representing 139,091,700 ordinary shares of are satisfied.
The Company has met the requirements and accordingly 10p each, as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued this resolution is proposed to allow the Company to continue to call under paragraph a of this resolution.
This amount before any reducgeneral meetings on 14 clear days notice.
The Directors believe it is tion represents approximately two-thirds of the issued ordinary share in the best interests of the shareholders of the Company to preserve capital of the Company as at 23 February 2010, the latest practicable the shorter notice period and accordingly are putting this resolution date prior to publication of this Notice.
If this authority is exercised, to the meeting.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a the Directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time to time matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the flexibility including as to the re-election of directors.
is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the The authorities sought under paragraphs a and b of this resoluadvantage of shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effection will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2011 the last date by which tive until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2011, when it the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2011 and is expected that a similar resolution will be proposed.
It should also the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company held be noted that the changes to the Companies Act 2006 mean that, in in 2011. order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting availauthorities sought under this resolution, except, under paragraph a, to able to all shareholders.
satisfy options under the Companys employee share option schemes.
D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T 67 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 Resolution 11: Authority to Purchase Own Shares i.
THE COMPANYS OBJECTS The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 pence The provisions regulating the operations of the Company are each granted at last years Annual General Meeting will expire on the currently set out in the Companys Memorandum of Association the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors wish Memorandum and the Current Articles.
The Memorandum contains, to renew this authority and a special resolution, will be proposed to among other things, the objects clause which sets out the scope of the give the Company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares activities the Company is authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The authority give a wide scope.
limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of The Act significantly reduces the constitutional significance of 20,863,756 representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital a companys memorandum of association.
The Act provides that a of the Company as at 23 February 2010 and sets minimum and memorandum will record only the names of the subscribers and the maximum prices.
This authority will expire no later than 30 June 2011. number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company.
The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of the Company Under the Act, the objects clause and all other provisions which are to have available this authorisation, in case of circumstances when it contained in a companys memorandum of association, for existing would be appropriate to use it.
They would only use it after considercompanies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the ation of the effect on earnings per share and the longer term benefit for companys articles of association, but the company can remove these the Company and shareholders generally.
The fact that such authorisaprovisions by special resolution.
tion is being sought should not be taken to imply that shares would be Further, the Act states that unless a companys articles provide purchased at any particular price or indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the purchased pursuant to this authority may either be held as treasury need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this reason the shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of other provisions of its Memorandum which, by virtue of the Act, are to shareholders at the time.
be treated as forming part of a Companys Articles of Association as As at 23 February 2010, there were options over 12,619,902 ordiof 1 October 2009.
As the effect of the proposed resolution will be to nary shares in the capital of the Company, including 30,664 Deferred remove the statement currently in the Memorandum regarding limited Shares, 30,664 Deferred Matching Shares, 1,168,844 Investment liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding Matching Shares, 88,183 Deferred Bonus Share Plan shares and the limited liability of shareholders.
1,344,324 Performance Share Plan shares these are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 56, which represent 6.05% ii.
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL AND UNISSUED SHARES of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury The Act abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares share capital and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be were exercised in full, these options would represent 6.72% of the limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding any treasury allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, save in shares.
As at 23 February 2010, the Company did not hold any trearespect of employee share schemes.
sury shares in the Company and no warrants over ordinary shares in the capital of the Company existed.
REDEEMABLE SHARES Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue redeemResolution 12: Amendment of Articles of Association able shares, it had to include in its articles of association the terms and Resolution 12 proposes certain amendments to the Companys manner of redemption.
The Act enables directors to determine such current Articles of Association the Current Articles.
The Articles matters instead, provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The of Association as amended the New Articles contain reviNew Articles contain such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans sions primarily to take account of changes in English law brought to issue redeemable shares, but if it did so the Directors would need about by the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
Act, the Shareholder Rights Regulations and amendments to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2009.
SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION OF SHARE TRANSFERS are summarised below.
Other changes, which are of a minor or The Current Articles permit the Directors to suspend the registration of technical nature, have not been noted below.
As noted at the end of transfers.
Under the Act, share transfers must be registered as soon as this section, the New Articles showing all the changes to the Current practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registraArticles are available for inspection.
tion of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
68 D I R E C T O R S R E P O R T 17334 proof 3 1 4 10 v. AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES, CONSOLIDATE AND xi.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS SUB-DIVIDE SHARES, AND REDUCE SHARE CAPITAL Saving provisions included in the Current Articles prior to the coming Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific enabling into force of certain parts of the Act have been removed in the New provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to consolidate or Articles now that the Act is in full force.
sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority to undertake the xii.
USE OF SEALS relevant action.
The Current Articles include these enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required authority in its Under the Act, a company will only require shareholder authority to do articles of association to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to Act, such authority will no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant enabling proviauthorisation has been removed in the new Articles.
sions have been removed in the New Articles.
ARTICLES WHICH DUPLICATE STATUTORY PROVISIONS vi.
SPECIAL BUSINESS Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in Under the Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the Act are, in the main, removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with a company is required to state the general nature of all business to be the Companys approach to the implementation of the Act to date.
The New Articles remove provisions relating to special business in order to reflect this.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITY The Act allows a company to indemnify a director of a company that is vii.
VOTING RECORD DATE a trustee of an occupational pension scheme against liability incurred Under the Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, in connection with the Companys activities as trustees of the scheme.
the Company must determine the right of members to vote at a general The New Articles include such an indemnity.
meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not taking account of days xv.
GENERAL which are not working days.
The New Articles reflect this requirement Generally, the opportunity has been taken to update references, excluding non-working days.
cross-references and language to bring the New Articles in line with the implementation of the last parts of the Act, the coming into force viii.
VOTING BY PROXIES ON A SHOW OF HANDS of the Shareholders Rights Regulations and amendments to the The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the Act so that Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. it now provides that each proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of hands, unless the proxy is appointed by more than one A copy of the Current Articles, a copy marked to show the differences member, in which case the proxy has one vote for and one vote against between the Current Articles and the New Articles as proposed to be if the proxy has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the amended pursuant to resolution 12 and a copy of the New Articles resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
incorporating such amendments, will be available for inspection from The New Articles reflect these changes.
the date of this notice up to the time of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours ix.
PROXIES TO VOTE IN ACCORDANCE WITH INSTRUCTIONS and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes Under the Act, as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations, before and during the meeting.
Representatives of the Companys proxies are required to vote in accordance with instructions given by Solicitors, Clifford Chance LLP, will be available at the Annual General the shareholder by whom the proxy is appointed.
The New Articles state Meeting to answer any questions.
that the Company is not required to confirm that a proxy has followed instructions and a failure to vote as instructed does not invalidate the proceedings on the resolution.
x. CHAIRMANS CASTING VOTE By order of the Board The New Articles remove the provision giving the Chairman a casting Andrew Pike vote in the event of an equality of votes as this is no longer permitted Company Secretary under the Act.
