Trinity Mirror plc 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Regionals Revenue Our Regionals division publishes a vibrant and diverse portfolio of market 302.9m 08: 396.0m leading brands in print and digital media across the UK with more than 120 Operating profit regional daily and weekly newspapers and over 400 digital products.
9% 08: 17.2% Websites 400 Users 7m Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 Newspapers 1 20 Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 North West Our North West region is segmented into four marketplace businesses: Merseyside, Cheshire, North Wales and Huddersfield.
The portfolio 61% Reach in our markets includes the regions award winning newspapers, the Liverpool Echo, Daily Post Wales, Liverpool Daily Post, Huddersfield Daily Examiner 40 Newspapers and a variety of weekly titles including the Chester Chronicle.
The business publishes digital products including newspaper 94 Websites companion sites, community platforms and mobile sites including the liverpoolecho.
North East Our North East region comprises two businesses NCJ Media and Gazette Media which together publish the Evening Chronicle, 69% Reach in our markets The Journal, Evening Gazette and the Sunday Sun.
It also includes a broad range of free weekly newspapers, delivered direct to homes 12 Newspapers across Tyneside, Tees Valley and South Durham.
The business publishes a range of websites including the 88 Websites popular companion websites chroniclelive.
co. uk, as well as prime business resource nebusiness.
co. uk and local entertainment guide whatsonne.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 7 Midlands Our Midlands portfolio includes the leading daily titles, the Birmingham Mail and the Coventry Telegraph, the weekly 70% Reach in our markets Birmingham business title Birmingham Post and other weekly papers such as the Loughborough Echo and Stafford Post.
15 Newspapers The region has fully interactive companion sites to our newspapers, packed with up to the minute news, sport, blogs and whats on 60 Websites listings alongside category specific websites jobs-midlands, homes-midlands.
South Wales Our South Wales region Media Wales publishes the national newspaper of Wales, the Western Mail, Wales only Sunday 65% Reach in our markets newspaper, Wales on Sunday, the South Wales Echo and nine Celtic Weekly newspaper titles.
10 Newspapers The portfolio is supported by walesonline.
co. uk, Echo extra and specific websites dedicated to homes, jobs and motors in Wales.
9 Websites Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Scotland In Scotland our business Scottish & Universal Newspapers is Scotlands biggest local publishing group across West, Central and 64% Reach in our markets East Scotland.
The portfolio includes the Paisley Daily Express, one of the most successful local daily newspapers in the UK and well 23 Newspapers established and popular weekly newspapers such as the Dumfries & Galloway Standard and Stirling Observer.
46 Websites The print titles are complemented by newspaper companion websites, as well as a number of community and recruitment websites.
South Our Southern region publishes a portfolio of paid and free newspaper titles with a market reach across North Surrey, West London and 47% Reach in our markets Bucks that takes in the powerhouse London economy and major airports.
The portfolio includes the Surrey Herald, the Staines News 28 Newspapers Series including Staines News, Egham News and Ashford News, the Buckinghamshire Advertiser, the Uxbridge Gazette, the Ealing Gazette and the Harrow Observer.
136 Websites The portfolio is supported by newspaper companion websites, community sites providing the latest local news, sport and events and comments and information from the local community.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9 Digital portfolio Our print titles are complemented by a fast growing digital portfolio which extends our reach across our local markets.
These comprise: Newspaper companion websites: Unique editorial propositions which complement our key newspaper brands in local markets and provide advertisers with local reach: Hyperlocal sites: Serving specific postcodes and communities with highly relevant, local editorial and user-generated content which are designed to be an indispensable guide to their communities and provide precision geographic targeting to local advertisers: Classified sites: Key categories of recruitment, property and motors plus important local services such as births, marriages and deaths: and Mobile sites: Providing users with regularly updated local news and personalised information.
Our digital portfolio is further strengthened by national digital sites in the key revenue categories of recruitment and property.
Recruitment: We publish a network of specialist job sites, including leading brands such as gaapweb, totallylegal, totallyfinancial, planetrecruit, secsinthecity and the careerengineer.
Additionally, we own a 50% stake in fish4, which publishes one of the UKs leading national recruitment sites, fish4Jobs.
Property: We publish Smartnewhomes, the UKs leading site for new homes and targeted property brands such as email4property.
National advertising sales Amra is one of the leading national advertising sales companies for regional press, representing regional newspapers and websites across the UK.
Its offering combines traditional media with exciting new online opportunities, supported by creative concepts and in-depth market research.
Amra has been established for over 25 years and has offices in London, Manchester and Scotland and is a leading force in national display, classified, recruitment and digital advertising sales.
For the regional press it acts both for Trinity Mirror and on behalf of third party customers.
Amra Direct also provides a countrywide leaflet distribution network, a print on demand service and an inserting facility in our paid for regional titles.
Financials Governance Business review Who we are
