Trinity Mirror plc 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Board and management team 1.
Gary Hoffman 49 Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Sly was appointed Chief Executive in February 2003.
She started Gary joined the Board in March 2005.
He was appointed Senior her media career in advertising sales at the Guardian and then Independent Director in May 2007.
Gary was appointed Chief The Independent.
In 1989 she joined IPC Media Limited as Head Executive of Northern Rock plc in October 2008.
Previously Gary of Classified Advertising Sales and joined their Board in 1994 as was Group Vice-Chairman and Executive Director of Barclays plc.
In 1997 Sly was appointed Managing Director He is a director of Visa Europe and 1NG Limited.
Gary is also of IPC tx, the TV listings division.
In December 1999 she was Vice-Chairman of Coventry City Football Club.
appointed Chief Executive of IPC Media Limited and subsequently led the sale of the business to AOL Time Warner.
Jane Lighting 53 In November 2009, Sly was appointed non-executive director of Non-Executive Director Ladbrokes plc.
She is also a trustee of The English National Ballet Jane joined the Board as a non-executive director in January 2008 School and is a director of the Press Association and Chairman of and was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in its Remuneration Committee and President of NewstrAid, a charity 2009.
Jane was Chief Executive of Five and of Flextech plc and is for the wholesale and retail news trade.
Sly was previously Senior a Trustee and Fellow of the Royal Television Society and Council Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman of Member of the British Screen Advisory Council.
Jane was appointed EMI plc and a non-executive director of Littlewoods Plc.
as a non-executive director of Paddy Power plc in September 2009.
Kathleen ODonovan 52 Chairman Non-Executive Director Sir Ian joined the Board of Trinity Mirror and was appointed Chairman Kathleen joined the Board in May 2007.
She is Chairman of the in May 2006.
He is non-executive Chairman of Wm Morrison Audit and Risk Committee.
Kathleen is a non-executive director at Supermarkets plc.
Previously he was President of Nissan Europe and Prudential plc and Arm Holdings plc.
During 2009, Kathleen was Senior Vice President of Nissan Group.
Sir Ian was Chairman of BPB Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Great Portland plc, was on the Court of the Bank of England, was Deputy Chairman Estates plc.
Previously she was on the Court of the Bank of England of Asda Group plc, Senior non-executive director of Northern Rock and held non-executive directorships at O2 plc and EMI plc.
Between plc and a non-executive director of GKN plc and Greggs plc.
1998 and 2002 she was CFO of Invensys plc, having previously been the Finance Director of its legacy company BTR plc which merged with Siebe plc to create Invensys.
Vijay Vaghela 43 Executive Committee Sly Bailey, Chief Executive Group Finance Director Vijay Vaghela, Group Finance Director Vijay qualified as a chartered accountant and worked in private Paul Vickers, Secretary and Group Legal Director practice with Deloitte.
He joined Mirror Group in 1994 as an Internal Auditor.
He was subsequently Group Treasurer and then Director of 9.
Nick Fullagar Accounting and Treasury.
He was appointed Group Finance Director and joined the Board in May 2003.
Director of Corporate Communications Nick joined Mirror Group as a reporter for the Daily Mirror in 1980.
He is responsible for Group communications including investor and 7.
He was appointed to the Executive Committee Secretary and Group Legal Director in 2002.
Nick is a trustee of the Child Growth Foundation.
Paul joined the Board in September 1999 having been a director of Mirror Group since 1994.
He originally qualified as a barrister and was 10.
Georgina Harvey in private practice at the Bar.
He was legal manager of the London Managing Director, Regionals Daily News, which he left to join the breakfast television company Georgina joined the Company in February 2005.
She started her TV-am where he subsequently became Assistant Managing Director.
media career at Express Newspapers where she was appointed He was previously a non-executive director of Virgin Radio.
Paul is a Advertising Director in 1994.
She joined IPC Media in 1995 as Group director of the Press Standards Board of Finance, the body that funds Advertising Sales Director for SouthBank and went on to form IPC and sets the remit for the PCC.
Advertising in 1998, where she was Managing Director.
Georgina became a member of the Board of IPC Media in 2000 and 8.
Laura Wade-Gery 45 was subsequently appointed Managing Director of Wallpaper Group in 2003.
Non-Executive Director Laura joined the Board in August 2006.
She is Chief Executive of 11.
com and a Director of Tesco Bank.
Previously she was Group Strategy Director, Tesco plc.
Prior to joining Tesco in 1997, Laura held Managing Director, Nationals positions with Gemini Consulting and Kleinwort Benson.
Mark was appointed as Managing Director of our Nationals division in September 2008.
From 1998 he was Managing Director of the Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail Ltd, prior to which he was Managing Director of Midland Weekly Media Ltd.
He was previously Business Development Director at Thomson Regional Newspapers Ltd, Marketing Director at MIN plc and Research Manager at the Wolverhampton Express & Star, having entered the newspaper industry in advertising sales at the Midland News Association Ltd in the mid 1980s.
Mark spent the early part of his career working in advertising agencies.
He is also non-executive Chairman of Scottish Athletics Ltd. 12.
Rupert Middleton Director of Manufacturing Rupert joined Trinity Mirror as Group Director of Manufacturing in March 2004.
He is responsible for Trinity Mirror Printing, the integrated manufacturing division that prints all Trinity Mirror newspaper titles and a significant volume of copies for external publishers including the Daily Mail and The Independent.
Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, Rupert has previously been Managing Director of a division within The Stationery Office, and Managing Director of Westferry Printers.
Rupert is Chair of Governors at Tower Hamlets Further Education College and President of the British Printing Industry Federation.
Tony Pusey Group Information Technology Director Tony was appointed Group IT Director in December 2000.
Prior to joining Trinity Mirror, he was Group CIO and Business Change Director at Storehouse plc, which incorporates Bhs and Mothercare.
11 7 8 9 Financials Governance Business review Who we are
