Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200953 Directors report Statement of directors responsibilities Business review The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires that the directors Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
present a Business review in this report to inform shareholders of the Company and help them assess how the directors have performed Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements their duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with and is incorporated by reference into this report: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected the Chairman and Chief Executive statement on pages 16 to 19: to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance the Business review including key performance indicators for each with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards business on pages 20 to 30: and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless the statements concerning internal controls and risk management they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of on pages 44 and 45. affairs of the Group or Company and of the profit or loss of the These sections have been prepared to provide the Companys Group or Company for that period.
shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and In preparing the consolidated financial statements, International a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
It may Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
properly select and apply accounting policies: These sections of the annual report contain forward-looking present information, including accounting policies, in a manner statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because information: they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may provide additional disclosures when compliance with the or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events the forward-looking statements.
No assurance can be given that and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial the forward-looking statements will be realised.
Statements about performance: and the directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances a going concern.
and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors control.
The information contained in these sections of the annual are required to: report have been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to directors at the date of its preparation and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the information during the financial year ahead.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward-looking statements are state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
and explained in the financial statements: and The forward-looking statements should be read in particular in prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the context of the specific risk factors identified.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue continue in business.
reliance on the forward-looking statements.
Shareholders should The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting note that these sections have not been audited or otherwise records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys independently verified.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Principal activities and future development that the parent company financial statements comply with the The principal activity of the Group is the publication and printing Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding of newspapers and a growing portfolio of websites, primarily in the the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps United Kingdom.
The analysis of turnover and operating profit are for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
included in notes 4 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of A review of our business and activities during the period is contained the corporate and financial information included on the Companys in the Chairman and Chief Executive statement on pages 16 to 19 website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the Business review on pages 20 to 30. and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Our strategic goal is to build a growing multi-platform media business, in other jurisdictions.
by developing and sustaining strong positions across print and digital, with products and services which meet the needs of our customers, both readers and advertisers.
Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors report Results and dividends Payment of suppliers The profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent We have a supplier payment policy which provides for payment of all was 29.3 million 2008: 59.1 million loss.
The directors do not suppliers other than those with agreed alternative terms at the month propose a final dividend for the year and no interim dividend was end following the month of receipt of invoice.
All companies within the declared.
In 2008, the directors declared and paid an interim Group are encouraged to make payments in accordance with those dividend of 3.2 pence per share and no final dividend was paid.
terms and conditions provided that the supplier has also complied After dividends, retained profit for the period was 29.3 million with them.
At 3 January 2010, the Group had an average of 33 days 2008: 67.1 million loss.
2008: 40 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
Charitable and political donations Share capital During the year contributions for charitable purposes totalled Details of the movements in the Companys called-up share capital 84,000 2008: 84,000, principally to various charities connected including purchases of its own shares are included in note 31 to the or associated with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries consolidated financial statements.
and local charities serving the communities in which we operate.
No direct political contributions were paid during the period Substantial shareholdings 2008: nil.
The editorial stance of our national titles, and in particular In accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, that of the Daily Mirror and the Daily Record, is politically left of centre as at 3 March 2010, the Company had been notified of the following and often supportive of the Labour Party.
Although we do not make beneficial interests in its ordinary shares: direct political donations, it has been in the best interests of the Daily Mirror and Daily Record to sponsor, on commercial terms, certain events in aid of the Labour Party.
This is a practice that Number of shares Percentage has been followed for many years.
Schroders plc 48,492,342 19.10% At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in 2009, the Standard Life Investments 30,964,858 12.02% Company and its subsidiaries received authority from shareholders under the Companies Act 2006 to make donations to political Aviva plc 21,914,377 8.50% parties of up to 75,000 in aggregate per annum.
In 2009 there Old Mutual Asset Managers 12,266,209 4.76% were no such payments 2008: nil.
Legal & General Group plc 10,291,384 3.99% Employment policies and employees Barclays plc 10,023,158 3.78% The Group employs over 6,500 people in more than 68 locations Lloyds TSB Group plc 8,931,102 3.46% across the UK, including eight print sites.
The Company is committed to increasing the service quality, profitability and efficiency of the All percentages are based on date of notification as opposed to current issued share Company by attracting and recruiting the people who are best suited capital figure.
to meet the standards for the role and the Company without regard Corporate governance statement to race, creed, colour, nationality subject to legal eligibility, ethnic origin, religion, gender, age, sex change, sexual orientation, marital The corporate governance statement, in accordance with Rule 7.2 status, connections with a national minority, membership or non of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Rule 9.8.
6 5 and 6 membership of a trade union or, unless justifiable, disability.
of the Listing Rules, on page 42 forms part of this directors report.
We pursue a policy of equal opportunities for all employees and potential employees.
We have continued our policy of giving fair Directors consideration to applications for employment made by disabled The directors of the Company who served during the period, unless persons bearing in mind the requirements for skills and aptitude stated otherwise, are listed below: for the job.
In the areas of planned employee training and career development, we strive to ensure that disabled employees receive Executive maximum possible benefits including opportunities for promotion.
Sly Bailey Every effort is made to ensure that continuing employment and Vijay Vaghela opportunities are also provided for employees who become disabled.
Paul Vickers Within the limitations of commercial confidentiality and security, it is the policy of the Company to take views of employees into account Non-executive in making decisions and wherever possible, to encourage the Sir Ian Gibson cbe involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
Gary Hoffman Jane Lighting Group companies evolve their own consultative policies.
Methods Kathleen ODonovan of communication used include staff forums, advisory committee Laura Wade-Gery meetings, newsletters, bulletins, pension trustee reports, management briefings and staff surveys.
Their remuneration is summarised on page 46 and details of the directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in shares can be Since January 2009, Paul Vickers, Secretary and Group Legal found on pages 51 and 52 in the remuneration report.
Director, has been identified as the executive director with Human Resource responsibility.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir Ian Gibson and Vijay Vaghela will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2010.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200955 Articles of association Directors responsibility statement The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
A special the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant resolution proposing the adoption of new articles of association to financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, accommodate the final provisions within the Companies Act 2006 liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Further the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: details are set out in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies the and Annual Report and Accounts.
the Business review, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Use of authorities granted at the Annual the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, General Meeting in 2009 together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties At the Annual General Meeting in 2009, shareholders approved they face.
an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum of 25,769,036 shares being approximately By order of the Board 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being 10 pence each and not exceeding 105% Paul Vickers of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days.
Secretary and Group Legal Director During the year, the Company made no purchases of its own shares and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or subject to 4 March 2010 a lien or charge.
The Company allotted 165 ordinary shares of 10 pence each to satisfy an exercise of an option granted in connection with the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and accounts confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will be put to shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Financials Governance Business review Who we are
