Trinity Mirror plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Group Investment for the future Information Technology Despite the tough trading environment Trinity Mirrors strategic goal is to build a growing multi-platform we have continued to invest in our IT media business with strong brands across print, digital and other complementary media channels.
To support the delivery of this and manufacturing capability.
strategic goal it is essential that our IT infrastructure and publishing Our programme of investment to modernise our publishing systems supports multiple media channels.
operations and the implementation of our new operating model We continue to transform our IT infrastructure and systems, to across the business has resulted in a step change in the way we enable a fundamental shift in the way we publish.
In particular we publish across print and digital.
New state-of-the-art IT systems are now able to capture content efficiently from numerous sources have enabled us to re-engineer how we publish across editorial, and share that content across our businesses through a variety of advertising and pre-press.
Importantly we have not tried to do the same things with fewer Our advertisers are now able to self-serve through web-based people.
Instead, using new technology, we have made fundamental access to our business which allows them to create and book changes to the entire publishing process, achieving efficiencies their advertising online.
and a significantly lower cost base across all functions but without detriment to quality.
Other benefits to the business include the ability to cost efficiently capture user-generated content and to deliver personalised services Over the past five years our investment in our printing presses has to individual customers and targeted communities.
For our employees not only enabled us to improve the quality of our own titles, but also it means we can offer many of them flexible working, with the ability to become the largest contract printer of newspapers in the UK.
to access our systems from anywhere and at anytime via the internet.
Contract print revenues are stable and resilient to the business cycle, with contracts typically running over several years.
Continuing to Along with the development of new IT infrastructure and publishing grow revenues in this area is a key management objective.
systems, the functionality of our current systems has been significantly enhanced.
The number of systems has been reduced, allowing better use of resources and an increased level of service across the business.
IT has moved from being a location based function to a much more effective and efficient virtual service resulting in a significant reduction in IT costs.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200915 Manufacturing Trinity Mirror Printing TMP provides a full printing and finishing capability for Trinity Mirrors national and regional newspapers together with magazines, supplements and other products across eight print sites.
Our goal is to achieve high quality full colour products at low operating cost with high degrees of flexibility.
In addition, TMP generates significant revenues for the Group as the largest newspaper contract printer in the UK, serving a wide array of customers from national and regional newspapers, to those publishing special products and supplements.
Comprehensive inserting, stitching and trimming capabilities give Trinity Mirror and our customers the ability to add value to their titles by inserting pre-printed sections, posters and readers offers thereby generating new commercial opportunities and revenues.
The creation of a unified print network has enabled the Group to efficiently invest in full colour and finishing capability for its national and regional titles whilst minimising capital and operational expenditure.
This has enabled us to develop valuable new contract print revenues, a key strategic objective which is helping to diversify our revenue base with more secure, long-term contracts.
We print major national newspapers such as the Daily Mail, the Independent, the Racing Post and have contracts for numerous regional newspaper groups such as Johnston Press, Newsquest, Kent Messenger Group, Dunfermline Press and Tindle Newspapers Ltd Group.
Trinity Mirror print site Financials Governance Business review Who we are
