Trinity Mirror plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Business review The Business review has been prepared for the 53 weeks ended The complementary mix of advertising revenues and the more 3 January 2010 and the comparative period has been prepared for resilient circulation revenues and other revenues continued to ensure the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2008.
Unless otherwise stated, that total revenues declined at a lower rate than the reduction in numbers are presented on an adjusted basis to provide a more advertising revenues.
The Group revenues for the period and year meaningful comparison of the Group business performance between on year change, by category and division, are as follows: 2008 and 2009.
Adjusted results exclude the impact of non-recurring items, the amortisation of intangible assets, the retranslation of foreign Regionals Nationals Total currency borrowings, the impact of fair value changes on derivative Regionals variance Nationals variance Total variance m % m % m % financial instruments and the impact of tax legislation changes.
A reconciliation between the adjusted results and the statutory Advertising 198.9 29.5 132.9 7.
8 331.8 22.2 results is provided in note 39 on page 98.
7 Trinity Mirror is one of the UKs largest newspaper publishers with Total an award winning portfolio including five national newspapers, over revenue 302.9 23.5 460.4 3.2 763.3 12.4 120 regional newspapers and more than 400 digital sites.
The Group employs over 6,500 people in more than 68 locations across the While advertising revenues have fallen to unprecedented levels due UK, including eight print sites.
The Group has two trading divisions: to the downturn, we have seen an improvement in the rate of decline Regionals and Nationals.
as we progressed through the period.
Our advertising performance for the Regionals is in line with the market and for the Nationals we Group strategy have been able to grow the advertising volume market share.
Although Our strategic goal is to build a growing multi-platform media business, more resilient, circulation revenues have also been impacted with by developing and sustaining strong positions across print and digital, consumers cutting discretionary spend.
As a result, circulation volume with products and services which meet the needs of our customers, declines have not been fully mitigated by cover price increases.
Other both readers and advertisers.
revenues, which include contract printing, waste sales, events, reader offers and leaflets also declined.
Against a difficult economic and trading background management have taken decisive action, focusing on leading the business through Group digital revenue declined due to cyclical factors but the Group the recession, while continuing to develop the business for longer continues to increase its audience reach.
The Group continued to term growth.
develop and build its portfolio of digital brands and these will ensure that the Group is well positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities when market conditions improve.
Our marketplace The mass circulation of our titles combined with our digital offering The UK economy was in severe recession in 2009 with GDP continues to generate significant reach and readership and provides forecast to decline by 4.5%.
Consumer facing businesses have a large and appealing audience for advertisers.
been particularly impacted with businesses and consumers reducing spend.
Rising unemployment, falling car sales, a weak The latest GDP estimate for the last quarter of 2009, at 0.3% growth, property market and a challenging retail environment resulted in officially brings to an end the recession, though the Group continues significant advertising revenue declines across all categories with to experience advertising and circulation revenue declines.
Whilst circulation and other revenues also impacted.
we cannot control the macro-economic environment we have been, and are still, taking significant management action to protect profitability and cash flows in order to maintain a healthy financing position.
The benefits arising from the new operating model and other management action have enabled the Group to substantially reduce its fixed cost base.
