Trinity Mirror plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Nationals Revenue Our five national newspapers, which are among the UKs leading media 460.4m 08: 475.7m brands, include two daily titles and three Sunday titles.
Our newspaper Operating profit titles are complemented by a strong portfolio of digital businesses, events 83.6m 08: 88.9m and exhibitions.
Operating margin 18.2% 08: 18.7% National newspapers 5 Digital users 9m Mobile page impressions 2m Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200911 Total Nationals readership 8m 5 2m Financials Governance Business review Who we are Trinity Mirror plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Nationals The division has two businesses, UK Nationals which publishes the Daily Mirror, the Sunday Mirror and The People, and Scottish Nationals which publishes the two best read national newspapers in Scotland, the Daily Record and the Sunday Mail.
There remains a strong demand for our journalism, for news and analysis readers can trust, delivered in a package that is easy to consume and popular with advertisers.
From news and sport to politics and showbiz, every day of the week our newspapers provide our readers with campaigning journalism and compelling content at value-for-money cover prices.
Our newspaper titles are complemented by a strong multi-platform mirrorfootball.
co. uk archive photo portfolio of digital businesses, events and exhibitions.
At the heart of our business lies our journalistic heritage and it is this which is providing the cornerstone for our multi-platform development as we take our brands and content across exciting new media platforms.
Our stories have never been read by more people as we grow our business across print, online and mobile.
Our digital portfolio comprises both newspaper companion websites and mobile sites.
Our fast growing newspaper companion websites are viewed by an increasing number of unique users every month.
Interactive services such as bingo and cashback add to the rich consumer experience.
The digital portfolio also includes the recently launched mirrorfootball.
co. uk combines the latest club-by-club breaking news, with the sharpest views in the sport, along with breathtaking images from our archives of the most famous moments in football.
co. uk takes the world famous 3am recipe of gossip, exclusives, and attitude-laden fun-poking at the world of celebs and delivers it to a whole new audience online.
Importantly, our sites have over 50% of users from the UK, the highest percentage among national newspaper websites, providing advertisers with a highly relevant audience of real scale.
Our mobile sites further enhance our digital offering with unique personalisation tools and rich news content.
We own and manage over 15 annual events which extend the reach and influence of our brands into a range of commercial markets.
Events include the Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards, Great Scot Awards and the Scottish PLC Awards.
Trinity Mirror plc Annual Report & Accounts 200913 Daily Mirror Pride of Britain Awards Financials Governance Business review Who we are
