14 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | Strategic overview Our strategy Strategic imperatives We have a clear strategic goal to create superior shareholder value by being the worlds leading leisure travel group providing customers with the widest choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs.
In order for us to achieve our strategy we are focused on four areas Product & Content, Distribution & Brands, People & Operational Effectiveness and Growth & Capital Allocation.
We measure the delivery of these four areas by our key performance indicators.
Imperative 1: Product & Content Summary Differentiated content is a central pillar of our product and content strategy.
We are developing a Different products to our competitors portfolio of exclusive products that no competitor and unique in the marketplace can match or replicate and which is tailored to High customer retention and repeat include additional services and facilities that booking rates customers want on their holiday.
Every one of our businesses offers products that are tailored to meet Earlier booking trends the holiday needs and tastes of its customers.
In the Mainstream Sector, the level of differentiated product has increased over the last year and currently represents 37% of total holidays.
We have specific targets in each Sector to continue to increase this level of differentiation and are constantly reviewing and evolving product content.
The Mainstream differentiated products in the UK include Sensatori, designed for couples, and First Choice Holiday Villages, designed for families.
In Germany we offer Sensimar, a 5-star spa concept for couples and Robinson Clubs for families.
In the Nordics our Blue Villages offer an excellent experience for families.
The portfolio of differentiated content not only increases our competitive advantage by distinguishing us from the competition, it also drives higher margins, underpinning our plans to improve underlying operating margins.
Differentiated products have an earlier booking profile which increases yields and removes pressure in the lates market, while customers also benefit from a more added-value, unique experience.
Feedback shows that customers appreciate the quality and value of these products, and higher satisfaction levels drive repeat bookings and customer retention.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Imperative 2: Distribution & Brands Summary Our highly trusted brands provide excellent value for money and drive customer loyalty and Highly trusted brands that provide value repeat bookings.
We have market-leading brands and quality in the Mainstream Sector including TUI, Thomson, Broadening customer choice First Choice, Jetairfly, Fritidsresor, Holland International, Arke, Nouvelles Frontires and Building our customer relationships Marmara.
In the Specialist Sectors we have well-known niche brands that have market-leading positions including Hayes & Jarvis, Sovereign, Citalia, The Moorings, Crystal Ski, LateRooms.
com Our aim is to provide customers with a wide choice of holiday options that meet their preferences, and a convenient range of booking options.
By securing direct access to customers, we can manage and deliver the whole holiday experience from booking with an agent in our travel shops, online or via one of our call centres, to in-resort and after-sales service, whilst driving customer satisfaction and ultimately customer loyalty.
In each source market the distribution of products is tailored to reflect different customer preferences and market dynamics.
Each source market has its own distribution strategy, which aims to reduce costs by building controlled distribution through the efficient operation of retail shops, the use of the internet as a research and booking tool and by the utilisation of call centres.
In the Mainstream businesses our leading brands drive bookings through controlled distribution capability which is made up of three main channels: a retail network of circa 3,500 shops, an online booking capability for all major brands and call centres.
In the UK for instance, where there is a high propensity to purchase online, we have invested heavily in web capability.
In addition, to increase control of late and online sales, we have launched a latedeals.
co. uk website and continue to maximise the efficiency of our channels by utilising the down time in shops to enable staff to work as a virtual call centre.
In France there is a higher propensity to purchase through more traditional travel agents and we are expanding our retail network both through owned and franchise agencies.
We have also increased controlled distribution for the Marmara brand by building its internet offering and selling it through our network of Nouvelles Frontires shops and Havas Voyages retail stores.
com 16 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | Strategic overview Our strategy Strategic imperatives continued Imperative 3: People & Operational Effectiveness Summary Our tour operators actively manage capacity through sophisticated capacity and yield Our colleagues are key to our success management systems.
The UK Mainstream business Flexible business model that can react has a market-leading yield system to plan and to demand changes manage capacity allowing us to analyse profitability for Thomson and First Choice by creating a detailed Development of sophisticated capacity picture of profitable capacity by individual flight.
and yield management systems This allows us to determine optimum seat capacity Underlying operating profit margin up by each UK airport and to ensure that we maintain 30 basis points from 2.9% to 3.2% the most appropriate aircraft fleet size and type.
This has enabled us to leverage the strength of Integration progressing well with total both these brands by improving efficiency with synergies upgraded to 200m fewer aircraft and less risk, driving an improvement in margins.
Our other businesses are also beginning to implement this system: in the Activity Sector, The skills and expertise of our colleagues are the the ski business has fully implemented the same key to our success.
Across the Group we have a yield management tool driving further improvements unique breadth and depth of experience with in margin.
innovative entrepreneurs in our specialist businesses, skilled tour operators in Mainstream, The cost synergies arising from the integration functional experts at the centre and a highly of First Choice and Thomson and further synergy experienced and respected international benefits in France, Austria and the UK ski management team.
Our aim is to motivate and businesses and Accommodation & Destinations, engage our teams to deliver outstanding customer will contribute significantly to our profitability.
experiences and results for our businesses.
Talent We have made excellent progress to date delivering across the Group is reviewed regularly with a focus synergies of 120m in 2009 and expect to deliver on retaining and developing individuals to drive the further synergies of 60m in 2010, maintaining business forward.
See Our Colleagues on page 22. our target of 200m in 2011.
In addition to the delivery of these cost synergies, the businesses are We have a flexible business model that allows us to continually working to leverage their market-leading react to demand changes.
Significant operational positions and scale to maximise their cost flexibility is retained through maintaining low competitiveness and rationalise the cost base bedstock commitments 71% is uncommitted, further through the continual improvement of third party flying arrangements accounting for 28% business processes and systems.
We are also further of all tour operator capacity and the asset leasing reviewing options to reduce the number of profiles of our shops and aircraft 46% of aircraft reservation and back office systems in the leases and 36% of shop leases will expire in the Mainstream businesses.
This allows us to manage capacity in response to changes in the trading environment.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 Imperative 4: Growth & Capital Allocation Summary that by bringing together the skills and knowledge of TUI Travel and S-Group Capital Management Acquired 11 niche high-growth our joint venture partner we can create a leading businesses in Specialist Sectors position in the Russian & CIS leisure travel markets.
Growth plans are progressing well in We have an existing presence in Brazil, China and Russia & CIS India and continue to build our understanding of these leisure travel markets to determine our Consolidation of the Canadian market optimal participation strategy for each market.
through a proposed strategic venture with Sunwing In the mainstream markets we have identified opportunities to allocate capital to participate in Underlying operating profit up 11% market consolidation and strengthen our competitive to 443m position, driving the turnaround of underperforming Increase in return on invested capital businesses in the Mainstream Sector.
During the year, to 9.2% we have reviewed the strategic alternatives for our Canadian business and announced, in September 2009, a strategic venture with Sunwing, a leading We have identified a number of market segments tour operator in Canada.
The strategic venture with where we can allocate capital to drive growth.
These Sunwing will strengthen our position in this market.
target market segments, primarily within our Specialist It provides us with a share of the profitability of the Sectors, are high-growth and high-margin, and present venture and has a number of strategic benefits for excellent opportunities for us to create leading the Group, including consolidation of the fragmented positions in fragmented markets.
These segments Canadian market, improved operational efficiencies offer significant potential for further growth and we and synergies and counter-cyclical profitability are creating market-leading positions by a combination between summer and winter seasons.
of the acquisition of complementary businesses and We continue to believe that the Boeing 787 organic growth in our existing businesses.
We have Dreamliner represents a fantastic opportunity to completed 12 acquisitions this year 11 in the deliver long term growth for the Group.
Not only Specialist Sectors and will continue to make bolt-on will it be able to fly greater distances, enabling us to acquisitions in targeted Specialist businesses.
The offer a wider range of non-stop destinations to our pipeline of potential acquisitions is strong at present customers than equivalent aircraft today, but it will and we envisage the level of investment in the do so with greater fuel efficiency and additional medium term to be similar to recent years.
We plan to use the customer and operational Further organic long term growth will be achieved benefits to position the long haul offering as a key through the continued introduction of some of differentiator in Europe allowing us to develop a our Specialist brands in the Specialist & Emerging pre-eminent position in the long haul charter market.
Markets and Activity Sectors into new European TUI Travel will be the first company to take delivery markets utilising our distribution strength, including of the Boeing 787 in Europe.
We are expecting to our pan-European retail estate of circa 3,500 receive delivery of the first aircraft in early 2012. branches.
For example, we are launching the best of We have an asset-right business model and typically our Marine, Adventure and Polar Cruising products only invest in assets such as yachts, inland waterway into Germany, followed by Russia and Ukraine.
cruisers and expedition cruise ships that provide us Following the successful launch of Le Boat within with greater competitive advantage and enable us our German retail operation, we will position this to earn premium margins.
As a result of our assetcustomer offering in the Dutch and Belgian markets.
right business model, delivery against our strategic Emerging markets have experienced a strong imperatives driving underlying margin enhancement increase in demand for leisure travel.
As the leading and delivery of synergy benefits of 200m, we international leisure travel group we are excellently remain confident of delivering our medium term placed to benefit from this opportunity.
Despite tough economic conditions undertaken careful customer research and market we have made significant progress in realising these analysis to understand the markets in which we can key objectives, improving operating margins by participate to add value.
Our strategy within Russia 30 basis points to 3.2% 2008: 2.9% and return & CIS has been the main area of focus and our on invested capital to 9.2% 2008: 8.4%.
growth plans are progressing well.
