08 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Market overview The economic environment management have not survived.
Those businesses It became clear in 2008 that the worlds financial that have market-leading brands, are financially system was in jeopardy as many of its leading banks secure and have flexible business models have were suffering liquidity issues and incurring losses, proven more resilient.
TUI Travel has continued leading them to be significantly undercapitalised.
to weather the challenging economic environment.
In early 2009, all indicators pointed towards an The Groups financial performance has continued increasingly challenging operating environment with to meet the Boards and the markets expectations.
the deterioration of the world economy, financial Our business model allows us to closely align our uncertainty and low consumer confidence.
supply to demand and we also have a high degree Additional challenges became apparent with the of flexibility which allows us to manage and adapt continued volatility of currency and fuel prices as quickly to changing market conditions and well as the outbreak of the H1N1 virus.
More than one year on from the banking crisis we The political climate are seeing some indications of economies beginning Tourism is one of the most heavily regulated to bottom out but economic data is still mixed.
As a global organisation TUI Travel has There appear to be signs that the governments a public affairs team that works with governments intervention in the banking crisis is starting to take across our key source markets to address issues effect and there is improving consumer confidence that impact our industry and our customers.
and an increasing willingness to spend.
However, unemployment is predicted to rise to 11% in the The Package Travel Directive is one issue that has UK in the second half of 2010 and although there come to the fore following the collapse of a number has been recent improvement in the US, of airlines including XL Airways and one on which unemployment remains at 9% Oxford Economic we have been campaigning across our key markets.
In Germany and The Package Travel Directive came into effect in France, unemployment is expected to continue 1990 and its provisions were introduced into UK to rise in 2010, remaining high until 2012.
During law through the Package Travel Regulations in 1992.
2009, the US and the major European economies The Package Travel Directive set out travel organisers UK, Germany and France have seen some responsibilities to their customers in the event that quarterly increases in GDP.
However, annual GDP an operator fails.
In the EU, anyone who offers growth is not expected to resume until 2010. package holidays must comply with the Package Travel Directive.
The leisure travel market Following campaigning by TUI Travel and the Historically, tourism has shown resilience in industry, the European Commission has recognised deteriorating economic situations, such as the that the Package Travel Directive needs to be recession in the early 1990s and short term shocks updated in line with the significant changes that such as 9 11 and the SARS health scare.
However, have taken place in the industry over the last after a period of strong growth, tourism has not 17 years, most notably the use of the internet been immune to the current financial crisis.
We are ensuring that TUI According to the United Nations World Tourism Travels views on this regulation and the protection Organisation UNWTO, the number of international customers should expect are heard.
As part of tourist arrivals worldwide reached 500 million in the this, Peter Long has met with the European first seven months of 2009, down from 540 million Commissioner for Consumer Affairs to submit in the same period of 2008.
combined with the uncertainties brought about by the H1N1 virus, are expected to continue to impact The sustainability challenge tourism demand in the short term though the rate Travel and tourism accounts for 11% of the worlds of decline is anticipated to ease during the remainder 1 GDP and 12% of its exports.
of 2009 and international tourism is forecast to decrease by 5% for the full year 2009.
The UNWTO Around 50 of the worlds least developed countries expects moderate growth for 2010. rely largely on tourism for economic development.
However, travel and tourism are responsible for Over the past couple of years, we have seen 2 around 5% of global carbon dioxide emissions.
consolidation of the major European players.
The mergers of TUI Tourism and First Choice As a leading tour operator TUI Travel aspires to and Thomas Cook and My Travel have delivered lead the travel and tourism sector and to lobby for consolidation, primarily in the UK market.
There sustainability to be embraced as a business issue have also been several high profile collapses of on which the future health of the industry depends.
airlines and tour operators globally.
Businesses As a tourism group we take our responsibilities very with weak financial models and poor capacity seriously and are working to ensure that sustainable www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09 development aligns with the Groups key strategic We continue to listen to our customers by creating priorities.
Our challenge is to understand how our new holiday experiences to meet and beat their industry can optimise its social, economic and expectations.
environmental benefits for all concerned.
TUI Destinations Travels goal in this respect is to make travel A number of non-EU countries including Egypt experiences special by providing holidays that cause and Turkey continued to grow strongly in popularity minimal environmental impact, respect the culture in 2008 2009.
The number of our customers and people of destinations and offer real economic travelling to the Eurozone has decreased but these benefit to local communities.
See Sustainable destinations including the Balearics, mainland Development on page 26.
Spain, Portugal and Greece still remain our top short haul destinations.
For long haul destinations Consumer sentiment the Dominican Republic, Thailand and the United Our customers continue to look forward to their States continually provide resorts that are popular annual holiday.
They continue to want to travel and value for money.
Despite the impact of swine abroad, experience new countries, cultures and flu, Mexico has recovered well following investments sunnier climates.
We are seeing the following and incentives by the local Government to attract customer trends: tourists back to the resorts.
New destinations Brand strength introduced in 2009 included Kenya and Canada.
Customers are loyal to reputable, established, high-quality brands power brands as they seek Emerging markets to fide-risk their holidays and book with a tour As our traditional mainstream markets mature we operator that gives full financial protection.
We continue to look to new markets for growth.
During have some of the most recognised and highly the year, we committed to investing in Russia & CIS trusted brands in the industry.
See Distribution with our joint venture partner, S-Group Capital & Brands on page 15.
Our aim is for TUI Russia & CIS to achieve a market-leading position.
We also have an Product innovation and development existing presence in Brazil, China and India and Customers continue to be more discerning in their these markets are being investigated and evaluated holiday decisions, wanting differentiated products for further growth opportunities.
See Growth & and value for money.
We are developing a portfolio Capital Allocation on page 17. of exclusive products that no competitor can match or replicate and which is tailored to include Market outlook additional services and facilities that our customers Although customers are booking later in the want on their holiday.
For further information on current economic climate, there is still a strong differentiated products see Product & Content demand from our customers for their main holiday.
We anticipate that market conditions will remain challenging and expect the later booking pattern to We have seen a trend towards all inclusive packages continue in the next financial year.
In the long term due to customers seeking financial certainty and there is every reason to believe that the demand wanting to know exactly what their holiday is going for international travel will continue to grow strongly to cost.
In the UK, we have experienced a 33% after the effects of the current economic downturn increase in demand and in Germany a 50% increase have receded, particularly in emerging market in 2009 versus 2008. economies, and we are well placed to capture The flexibility of our travel products has also this growth.
become a key customer requirement with an increase in demand for 10 or 11-night holidays, wider choices of departure dates and flights from regional airports.
Our customers care about the environment and expect a quality tour operator to be addressing these issues on their behalf.
See Sustainable Development on page 26.
In the largest 1 United Nations World Tourism Organisation UNWTO Tourism Satellite Accounts TSA.
mainstream markets, Germany and the UK, 2 United Nations World Tourism Organisation UNWTO, United we have launched green brochures featuring Nations Environment Programme UNEP and World Meteorological only holidays that meet the highest social and Organization WMO October 2007 Climate Change and Tourism: environmental criteria.
