18 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Strategic overview Key Performance Indicators KPIs KPI rationale Performance We believe that improving our financial To measure our financial progress we have two Financial performance will allow us to invest in the future financial KPIs: i operating margin % and ii return of our business for the benefit of shareholders, on invested capital ROIC.
Our main strategic In the year, despite the tough economic conditions, objective is to improve the Groups profitability operating margins improved by 30 basis points to and to enhance returns on investment.
3.2%, primarily driven by the delivery of merger synergies.
ROIC increased from 8.4% to 9.2% driven by improved profitability.
Differentiated content is a central pillar of our In the year, we increased the differentiated product Product product and content strategy across all our mix by 4 percentage points, including investment in & Content businesses.
Differentiated product earns superior Sensimar, a new 5-star spa concept in the German margins, achieves higher customer satisfaction source market and further development of the and delivers higher customer retention.
Sensatori concept in the UK source market after its successful launch in 2008.
We expect to continue to increase the number of units under these concepts over the next five years.
Distribution Our portfolio of market-leading brands helps to We have increased our controlled distribution mix increase the direct distribution mix by driving in the year in all source markets, with the most & Brands bookings through our controlled channels.
Increasing significant increases in the Nordic region and the direct distribution mix is a key driver to improve Germany.
The increase in the Nordic region was customer retention, reduce our distribution costs driven by the online channel, which now distributes and enhance customer relationships.
over half of all holidays sold.
In Germany, the increase was due to increased sales through our own retail network and through direct brands.
Specialist Maintaining a substantial mix of operating profits The proportion of operating profit contribution from our Specialist Sectors as a proportion of our from the Specialist Sectors has remained flat in Sectors Group result is a strategic priority.
Sectors are a major point of differentiation and a key source of the Groups future growth.
These Sectors add significant value to the Group as they enjoy higher margins and growth characteristics, often exhibit counter-seasonal profitability and are virtually impossible to replicate as we have crucial first-mover advantage.
Responsible We are experiencing greater consumer awareness Our airlines carbon efficiency compares favourably of sustainability and believe that creating more with both scheduled and low-cost airlines.
Carbon Leadership sustainable holidays will help protect our product into emissions from TUI Travels airlines decreased by the future and also support product differentiation, 3.75% in the financial year, saving over 220,000 brand loyalty and competitive advantage.
However, the total number of revenue passenger kilometres flown decreased in the same period, resulting in a very slight increase in our fleet average CO RPK carbon dioxide 2 emissions per revenue passenger kilometre.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Target Key Performance Indicators In January 2008, we set out a roadmap to Operating margin % ROIC increase TUI Travels operating margins from 2.0% 2009 2008 2009 2008 to 4.7%.
We also set out a target of doubling the Groups 3.2% 2.9% 9.2% 8.4% ROIC from the 5.4% achieved in 2007.
We are confident that we can achieve the improved financial performance implied by these targets by delivering our margin improvement roadmap.
We are targeting a differentiated product mix Differentiated product mix as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays of over 50% in our Mainstream Sector.
2009 2008 37% 33% We are targeting a controlled distribution mix of Controlled distribution mix as a proportion of total Mainstream Sector holidays greater than two-thirds in our Mainstream Sector.
2009 2008 58% 53% We expect the mix of profits from the Specialist The proportion of Group operating profit generated by our Specialist Sectors Sectors to increase in the medium term due to their superior underlying growth characteristics, 2009 2008 although, in the next financial year the synergy delivery in the Mainstream Sector may reduce the proportion of profit from the Specialist Sectors.
The Group has committed to reducing its direct Aircraft carbon efficiency, measured through TUI Travel airlines fleet average CO RPK carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 2014 against 2 a baseline of 2007 2008 in terms of total carbon 2009 2008 emissions as well as relative carbon emissions, based on 2008 2009 operational structure and plans.
