02 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Group at a glance TUI Travel overview Who we are TUI Travel PLC TUI Travel or the Group was created on 3 September 2007 from the merger of First Choice Holidays PLC and the Tourism Division of TUI AG.
It is the worlds leading leisure travel company operating in over 180 countries with more than 30 million customers in 27 key source markets.
TUI Travel has over 200 brands which are comprised of marketleading mainstream brands and specialist travel businesses.
TUI Travel is focused on providing customers with a wide choice of differentiated and flexible travel experiences to meet their changing needs.
TUI Travel is headquartered in the UK and employs approximately 50,000 people.
It is listed on the London Stock Exchange in the FTSE100 and has the ticker code TT.. Our strategy Making travel experiences special vision Creating superior shareholder value by being the leading global leisure travel group providing customers with a wide choice of differentiated and flexible travel Go to experiences to meet their changing needs strategic goal page 14 Product Distribution People & Growth & strategic & Content & Brands Operational Capital Go to Effectiveness Allocation imperatives page 14 Go to Customer obsessed Value driven Playing to win Responsible leadership page 23 values www.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 03 Where we operate TUI Travel is a truly global player operating in 27 key source markets.
The two additions from last year include market entrances in Ukraine and New Zealand.
Our 27 key source markets Australia Luxembourg Austria Netherlands Belgium New Zealand Canada Norway China Poland Czech Republic Russia Denmark Slovenia Finland Spain France Sweden Germany Switzerland Hungary Ukraine India United Kingdom Ireland United States Italy Our key brands TUI Travel operates under more than 200 brands.
A selection of our well-known brands include TUI, Thomson, Fritidsresor, Nouvelles Frontires, The Moorings, Quark, LateRooms.
com, Hayes & Jarvis and Turchese.
TUI operates in the German source Nouvelles Frontires is the leading LateRooms is the hotel industrys Hayes & Jarvis operates in the UK source market and is the market-leading tour multi-specialist and multi-channel leading late availability database market and creates specialist holiday operator brand.
tour operator in France offering a wide offering over 500,000 accommodation itineraries for discerning travellers to range of holidays and destinations.
deals directly to consumers across 55 destinations worldwide.
com Thomson is the leading UK tour The Moorings is the worlds premier Hotelbeds is a leading business-toTurchese offers holidays to Europe, operator which also offers flights yacht charter company, and offers hire business provider of destination the Mediterranean area and the and accommodation.
of its custom-designed yachts in North services and accommodation online Middle East and operates in the Italian America, UK, France and Germany.
to wholesalers, travel operators and source market.
com Fritidsresor is a tour operator and Quark Expeditions is the worlds leading retail business in the Swedish operator of expedition cruise voyages source market offering package to the Polar Regions.
tours to the Mediterranean and www.
