04 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Group at a glance Our structure TUI Travel is organised and managed through four Sectors Mainstream, Activity, Specialist & Emerging Markets and Accommodation & Destinations.
The chart opposite illustrates the underlying operating profit mix by Sector for the year ended 30 September 2009.
Key activities Mainstream Sector Mainstream is the largest Sector in terms of size, financial performance and employee numbers.
It comprises leading tour operators and power brands and operates a fleet of 146 aircraft and circa 3,500 retail shops.
For further information There are three divisions: see page 34 Northern Region Top selling brands The Northern Region comprises the distribution, Thomson, First Choice tour operating businesses and airlines in the UK and Fritidsresor and Ireland, the Nordic countries and Canada.
The UK operates some of the best known and loved Customer numbers travel brands including the UKs third largest airline, 7.1m Thomson Airways.
The Nordics comprises the markets of Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland.
Top three destinations The Nordics has number one brands in all markets, Balearics, Greece and Turkey except Finland where it is number two.
In Canada the brand positioning is being strengthened with the proposed strategic venture with Sunwing.
Central Europe Top selling brands Central Europe comprises the distribution, tour TUI, 1-2-Fly and ltur operating businesses and airline in the source markets of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Customer numbers Poland.
Germany is our largest source market.
9.7m In Germany and Austria, TUI is the market-leading brand.
The businesses are focused on providing Top three destinations a unique service and great products at the best Spain, Germany and Turkey value to our customers.
Western Europe Top selling brands Western Europe comprises the distribution, tour Jetair, Holland International operating businesses and airlines in France, Belgium and Marmara and the Netherlands.
In each country the brands have market-leading positions based on quality Customer numbers of service and price.
5.2m Top three destinations Spain, Greece and Turkey By customer numbers.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 05 3.1% Mainstream Sector 12.6% Activity Sector 6.7% Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector Accommodation & Destinations Sector 12.6% 65.0% Joint ventures Key activities Activity Sector This Sector has over 40 activity travel businesses Top selling brands that operate under five divisions Marine, For further information Crystal Ski, Moorings and Le Boat Adventure, Ski, Student and Sport.
Each of these see page 39 divisions has market-leading positions.
The Customer numbers Adventure businesses take more customers 1.1m to iconic adventure destinations than any other operator.
The Sport businesses are leaders in Top three destinations supporter-led cricket and rugby tours in Australia France, Austria and Italy and the UK, while the Student businesses encompass everything from the traditional school trip to France, to trek holidays for groups of young adults in the Himalayas.
This Sector also includes the leading yacht brands in Europe and the US and the worlds largest ski operator.
Specialist & The Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector is an Top selling brands international portfolio of travel businesses focusing Mostravel, Turchese and Emerging Markets on specific destinations, premium travel experiences Hayes & Jarvis Sector or particular customer demographic segments often with differentiated and exclusive product.
For further information Customer numbers The sector consists of 40 businesses operating see page 40 2.0m from North America, Europe and, most recently, emerging markets such as Russia and Ukraine.
including Russia & Ukraine Top three destinations US, Egypt and Italy Accommodation & The Accommodation & Destinations Sector A&D Top selling brands sells and provides a range of services in destination TUI used by a number of incoming Destinations Sector to tour operators, travel agents, corporate clients, agencies including TUI Espaa, For further information and direct to the consumer worldwide.
Services see page 41 TUI Hellas, Hotelbeds.
com and include hotel accommodation, transfers, excursions, round trips, organising meetings, incentives, LateRooms.
com conferences and events MICE, cruise handling as well as integrated website solutions for our Customer numbers roomnights customers.
A&D is structured along key business 26.9m lines Business to Business B2B and Business to Consumer B2C.
Top three destinations Spain, UK and Portugal By customer numbers.
