46 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Governance Directors report The Directors submit their report to the members of TUI Travel PLC Significant agreements change of control the Company for the year ended 30 September 2009.
The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control Principal activity of the Company.
The principal activity of the TUI Travel PLC group of companies the Relationship Agreement with TUI AG Group is that of an international leisure travel business.
It provides The Relationship Agreement between TUI AG and TUI Travel, dated a broad and diverse range of leisure travel experiences to more than 29 June 2007, includes the principle that TUI Travel will operate 30 million customers in 27 different source markets.
For further independently of TUI AG and records the understanding between TUI information see TUI Travel overview on page 2.
AG and TUI Travel regarding the relationship between them and the governance of TUI Travel.
The Relationship Agreement will remain in Annual General Meeting force until either the shares in TUI Travel are no longer admitted to The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Tuesday trading on the London Stock Exchange, or TUI AG has less than 10% 9 February 2010 at 10.30am at the offices of Deutsche Bank, of the rights to vote at general meetings.
In addition, in the event that Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
another party acquires control of TUI AG during the term of the An explanation of the business to be transacted at the AGM has Relationship Agreement, TUI AG will lose certain rights under the been circulated to shareholders and can be found on the website Relationship Agreement including its rights in respect of the www.
com composition of the Board.
Business performance The Relationship Agreement contains restrictions on the acquisition The Business performance for the year ended 30 September 2009, by TUI AG of additional shares in TUI Travel which result in the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, is set out on increase of its shareholding to more than 55% of the voting rights pages 30 to 43 and forms part of the Directors report.
save where TUI AG makes a general offer to acquire all TUI Travel shares in issue.
TUI AG has anti-dilution rights in respect of further Results and dividends issues of shares in TUI Travel other than on a pre-emptive basis.
The Group loss before taxation for the year ended 30 September 2009 TUI Travel has also agreed that certain matters will require the prior was 52m 2008: 267m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend approval of 80% of the Directors present at the meeting of the Board of 7.7p per ordinary share 2008: 6.9p, payable on 1 April 2010 to at which such matter is considered, including material changes to the holders on the register at the close of business on 12 March 2010. business of any Group company, acquisitions and disposals of a value When taken with the interim dividend of 3.0p per ordinary share paid which exceeds 10m, the entry into, variation or redemption prior to on 1 October 2009 2008: 2.8p, this gives a total dividend of 10.7p their due date of any borrowing facilities and the approval of the 2008: 9.7p relating to the year ended 30 September 2009. annual budget.
Corporate Governance report 770m bank revolving credit facility agreement The Corporate Governance report for the year ended 30 September An agreement dated 29 June 2007 between a number of relationship 2009, prepared in accordance with rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and banks and the Company relating to a 770m bank revolving credit Transparency Rules, is set out on pages 49 to 52 and forms part of the facility currently provided to the Company, contains terms which Directors report.
give the lending banks the right to cancel all commitments to the Company and to declare all outstanding credits and accrued interest Policy and practice on payment of suppliers immediately due and payable if a change of control occurs.
For the The operating units within the Group are responsible for agreeing the purpose of this agreement a change of control occurs if: terms and conditions under which business transactions with their i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of suppliers are conducted.
Due to the nature of the Groups operations, the Company: or and in common with the industry as a whole, payments are often ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire made in advance of the provision of goods and services.
The Group 75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
does not follow any code or statement on payment practice but it is Group policy that payments to suppliers, whether in advance or after 140m bank revolving credit facility agreement the provision of the goods or services, are made on the basis of the An agreement dated 29 September 2009 between a number of terms that have been agreed with them.
relationship banks and the Company relating to a 140m bank The Company had no trade creditors at 30 September 2009 2008: nil revolving credit facility currently provided to the Company, contains and consequently creditor days have not been presented.
Where the terms which give the lending banks the right to cancel all commitments Company is the recipient of goods or services, payment of suppliers is to the Company and to declare all outstanding credits and accrued conducted by one of the Group companies in accordance with the interest immediately due and payable if a change of control occurs.
For the purpose of this agreement a change of control occurs if: i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Directors and Officers insurance the Company: or The Company has purchased, and maintained throughout the year, ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire Directors and Officers Liability insurance and the level of cover is 75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 47 40m bonding and letter of credit facility agreement Auditors An agreement dated 29 September 2009 between a relationship bank The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office.
In and the Company relating to a 40m bonding and letter of credit accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution facility currently provided to the Company, contains terms which give for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company the lending bank the right to cancel all commitments to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
and to declare all outstanding bonds or letters of credit together with accrued issuance fees immediately due and payable if a change of Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of control occurs.
For the purpose of this agreement a change of control information to auditors occurs if: The Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are i any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she the Company: or ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware ii TUI AG and any persons acting in concert with it acquires or acquire of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys 75% or more of the voting shares in the Company.
auditors are aware of that information.
350m 6.0% Convertible Bonds Other information Subsequent to the year end on 30 September 2009, the Company Other information relevant to the Directors report can be found in the issued 350m of 6.0% Convertible Bonds.
The settlement took place following sections of the Annual Report: on 5 October 2009.
The Convertible Bonds contain terms which give Information Location in Annual Report the bondholders the right to redeem the bonds at their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of Our colleagues Responsible leadership 22 redemption, if a change of control occurs.
As more fully described in Social responsibility Responsible leadership 22 the terms and conditions, for the purpose of the Convertible Bonds Sustainable development Responsible leadership 26 a change of control occurs if: Charitable and political donations Responsible leadership 29 Suppliers Responsible leadership 29 i following a takeover offer to acquire all or a majority of the shares Future developments Business performance 43 in the Company, the offeror and or its associates have or will have Board and Committee Membership Corporate Governance report more than 50% of the voting rights in the Company: or 49, 50 ii the Free Float of the Company is less than 30% of the issued Financial risk management Corporate Governance report 51 ordinary shares for at least five consecutive dealing days where the and Strategic overview 20 Free Float is a all outstanding ordinary shares of the Company less Post balance sheet events after those held by or on behalf of TUI AG, its associates and any persons 30 September 2009 Financial statements Note 34 acting in concert with it and b the ordinary shares underlying the Share capital authorised and issued Financial statements Note 23 outstanding Secured Exchangeable Bonds due 2013 issued by Nero Substantial shareholdings Shareholder profiles 128 Finance Limited on 16 January 2008.
The Directors report was approved by a duly authorised Committee No other agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon of the Board of Directors on 30 November 2009 and signed on its a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are behalf by Andrew John, the Company Secretary.
considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the By order of the Board business of the Group as a whole.
Going concern Andrew John After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have reasonable Company Secretary expectation that the Company and Group have adequate resources 30 November 2009 to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, Company Number: 6072876 they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
A further summary of funding and liquidity is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
Contractual arrangements The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities see Suppliers on page 29.
The disclosure in this report of information about any of those third parties is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
