Directors Report: Group overview Key Performance Indicators KPIs We measure our progress through seven KPIs that are closely aligned with delivering our strategy which seeks to deliver sustainable long-term growth.
Four KPIs are linked to the bonus element of Executive Directors remuneration.
Non-financial Financial Lost Time Injury Staff turnover Working interest production Reserves and resources Frequency Rate LTIFR replacement 0.76LTIFR 2.0% 58,300boepd 437% Aim Aim Aim Aim Our top operational priority is We aim to be the employer of Production is key to revenue and Replacement of reserves and to keep people safe.
To measure this choice in the industry so that we cash generation.
We aim to achieve resources is focused on continuing to the Groups objective is to deliver top have the right resources and production in line with the Groups grow the Groups production potential.
quartile industry safety performance capabilities to deliver our strategy annual budget and market guidance.
Measurement and achieve a preset absolute target.
Measurement Reserves estimates for each field are Measurement Measurement Daily and weekly production is reviewed by an independent engineer, Rigorous and consistent incident We have a Board approved HR monitored from key producing in the event of significant new data or reporting procedures are in place strategy and HR resources are assets.
Production is reported weekly a material change.
A review of each throughout Tullow.
These include deployed throughout the Group.
There and monthly to senior management field is undertaken every two years.
analysis, follow-up, remedial actions are systems to identify issues early.
and forecast updates are prepared Resources estimates are also and communication of learnings.
People who leave are debriefed so we regularly during the year.
produced by an independent engineer.
H&S is reported to the Board can improve our policies.
An annual Risk management Risk management monthly and annually.
global employee survey is conducted.
The Groups investment in major The Group manages replacement Risk management Risk management field development in Ghana and risk by maximising reservoir H&S is part of all operational Tullows best defence against Uganda will significantly enhance performance in producing fields, planning and activities.
We also have the disruption to the business our production profile and is moving through operational and technical clear H&S policies and procedures of a people skills shortage or Tullows operating capability to the capability, and continued supported by strong EHS leadership, unexpected departures is to create next level.
A strong operational exploration success based accountability and commitment in an environment that allows people performance in production planning on focused material campaigns.
each asset and at each level of the to work and contribute in the best and monitoring mitigates against 2009 Performance business.
way possible and to recognise and unplanned interruptions.
The Group achieved 437% organic reward them appropriately for their 2009 Performance 2009 Performance reserves and resources replacement contribution.
While we achieved our baseline The Groups baseline production in 2009.
This follows-on from a target of 1.0 LTIFR, the Group did 2009 Performance target for 2009 was 58,700 boepd.
record 1,232% organic replacement not deliver top quartile industry 2.0% of staff left the Group in 2009, 2009 actual production was in 2008. safety performance.
This is 58,300 boepd, therefore the bonus had its first ever fatality.
As a result a strong performance during a year element relating to this KPI was the bonus element relating to this when the Groups total staff grew by not awarded.
24% to 669 people, following a 50% increase in 2008.
Aim Aim Aim Other KPIs relating to Cash operating costs per barrel of oil Growing our business is capital and Our aim is to create shared bonus remuneration equivalent boe are a function of cash intensive and we aim to ensure prosperity for all stakeholders and include finding costs per industry costs, inflation, our fixed in the medium term that capital our strategic objective is to achieve cost base and production output.
We expenditure together with debt and top quintile TSR growth versus our barrel, specific in-year aim to maintain these costs within dividend commitments can be industry peer group.
finance and portfolio strict predefined limits.
serviced from strong operating management objectives Measurement cash flow.
Measurement TSR share price movement and and key project milestones Cash operating costs are reported Measurement dividend payments is reported for Ghana and Uganda.
monthly on an asset basis and are Operating cash flow is reported monthly and on an annual basis at monitored closely to ensure that they monthly with regular forecasting for year-end to the Board.
The industry are within preset parameters.
longer periods to support long-range peer group is regularly reviewed.
Our strategy planning and investment decisions.
Risk management Risk management Annual and project budgets require A comprehensive annual budgeting The Board is responsible for the Board approval.
process covering all expenditure is execution of Tullows strategy and it undertaken and approved by the Risk management is reviewed annually as part of three Board.
Monthly reporting highlights Strong financial and operating year business planning.
Being a well any variances and corrective action is management, disciplined monitoring run business, delivering well against taken to mitigate against the and reporting, long-range cash flow business plans, being open and potential effects of cost increases.
forecasting and strong banking and transparent and maintaining strong equity relationships assist the Group capital market relationships 2009 Performance in managing liquidity.
In 2009, Tullow set a baseline target of 7.90 per boe and a stretch target 2009 Performance 2009 Performance Our strategy page 24 of 7.51 per boe.
Cash operating Reduced commodity prices and lower The stretch target relating to the costs for 2009 were 7.28 per boe sales volumes led to a reduction of bonus element for TSR is based Risk management page 62 and the bonus element relating to 28% in operating cash flow in 2009. on top quartile performance and Remuneration Report page 91 this KPI was achieved.
The operating cash flow and equity an absolute return of 15% or more.
placing proceeds facilitated capital In 2009, Tullow was third out of a investment of 758 million in 2009.
16 strong peer group and delivered 99% TSR.
As a result the bonus Go online at www.
com element relating to this KPI was achieved.
100 99 8.0 600 Glossary 7.28 7.2 540 90 boe Barrels of oil equivalent 519 boepd Barrels of oil equivalent 474 80 6.4 480 per day 5.90 5.6 420 70 EHS Environment, 66 5.05 374 Health and Safety 4.8 60 360 H&S Health and Safety 4.0 300 50 HR Human Resources KPI Key Performance Indicator 3.2 240 40 LTI Lost Time Injury 2.4 30 180 LTIFR LTI Frequency Rate measured in LTIs per million 1.6 120 20 hours worked 0.8 10 60 TSR Total Shareholder Return 2 0 07 08 09 0 0.0 07 08 09 07 09 08 www.
com 19 Directors Report: Group overview Lina Kodjo-Wayo, Development Geologist London office, UK 3 Achieving top quintile growth Exploration success and consistent delivery in major projects has transformed Tullow into Africas leading independent oil company.
Big projects bring big responsibilities and we want to fulfil our role in the long-term sustainable development of Africa.
Chief Executives review 22 2009 was a great year for Tullow and we are clear on our business plans for the next three years.
We have never been in a better position to grow and take on new opportunities and we look forward to 2010 with confidence and excitement.
Our strategy 24 Our objective is to deliver top quintile TSR in our industry peer group.
Tullow ranks number one over a five year period with 802% TSR and number three for 2009 with TSR of 99%.
Our markets and industry 25 Initial indications for the industry in 2010 are positive as demand for oil is expected to rise as the global economy recovers.
Our approach to exploration and production 26 Exploration and appraisal success is built on teamwork, scientific follow-through and strong relationships with partners and governments.
Production and development monetise resources as quickly as possible and this focus is expected to result in first oil from the Jubilee field in record time.
