Uganda 2009 has been another landmark year for Tullow in Uganda.
The discovered resource base is now in excess of 800 million barrels of oil and the first phase of development has commenced, targeting gas to power and first commercial oil production in 2011.
In addition, through a series of ongoing transactions, Tullow is in the process of aligning equity interests across the basin to accelerate development.
Strong partnership to accelerate basin development In October 2009, Tullow commenced a transparent farm-down process to sell a proportion of its interests in Blocks 1, 2 and 3A in the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
The purpose of this process is to bring in experienced and like-minded partners with downstream expertise in order to deliver an accelerated basin-wide development.
The process attracted strong interest from a number of major international and national oil companies who visited Tullows data rooms and Ugandan operations and made representations to the Government of Uganda.
On 23 November 2009 Heritage Oil Plc, Tullows partner in the basin and operator of Blocks 1 and 3A, announced its intention to sell its entire Ugandan interests to a third party.
On 17 January 2010, Tullow Drilling in Kaiso-Tonya, Uganda chose to exercise its pre-emption rights on this The Ngassa-2 well was drilled from an onshore location targeting a large deal and on 2 February 2010 a formal request was prospect located beneath the lake.
submitted to the Government to approve the transfer of the assets involved to Tullow.
The acquisition price Tullow has now gained a good understanding of the is up to US$1.5 billion.
Butiaba region of Blocks 1 and 2 where a high number Tullow continues to work closely with the Government of exploration wells and detailed seismic and gravity to gain approval for pre-emption of the Heritage deal imaging have significantly fide-risked the remaining in parallel with the farm-down process which is now prospectivity.
Six of the seven wells drilled in this at an advanced stage.
Two new potential partners region during the year encountered oil: Giraffe-1, have been identified, CNOOC and Total, and it is Karuka-2, Nsoga-1, Kigogole-3, Wahrindi-1 and expected that following completion of the deal each Ngara-1.
The Giraffe-1 well in particular proved to be partner will hold a one third interest in each of the transformational as it confirmed the Buffalo-Giraffe three blocks.
Presentations by all parties have been field subsequently renamed Jobi-Rii to be a 300 made to the relevant Ugandan authorities and Tullow million barrel discovery.
The field has significant expects the transactions to be signed in the coming further upside which is to be drilled in 2010. weeks.
This will result in a unified partnership with Awaka-1, the only dry well drilled in Uganda during considerable experience and the financial capability the year, encountered a new sand fairway but was to enable Uganda to become a significant oil unsuccessful in finding hydrocarbons.
it effectively delineated the edge of a key geological play in this region.
Significant discoveries made during the year In 2009, Tullow continued its exploration and appraisal Drilling activities in the Butiaba area were campaign in Uganda in order to prove up further supplemented by leading edge subsurface imaging resources and gain a good understanding of the technologies.
The largest Full Tensor Gravity resource distribution across the basin.
Exploration Gradiometry FTG survey ever carried out in Africa drilling activities during the year focused mainly on was acquired during the year.
FTG is a specialist the Butiaba area but also included the Ngassa-2 well technology ideally suited for imaging near-basement in Kaiso-Tonya.
In 2009, the Group drilled nine wells reservoirs.
This survey has been integrated with and total contingent resources for the basin are now regional 2D seismic data using techniques developed in excess of 800 million barrels.
Tullow is confident by Tullows geoscientists and technology partners.
This technology is being successfully used to improve that the basin has the potential to deliver significant additional resources with over 1.5 billion barrels definition of the Butiaba fields and prospects in 3D, at a fraction of the cost and time required for a awaiting discovery.
com 33 Directors Report: Business review Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued Significant progress towards Uganda becoming a major oil producing country Major pipeline in place for transport of surplus crude Beyond 2010 Potential to produce in excess of 200,000 bopd Major development focused on rened products for local and regional markets First commercial oil expected from Kasamene eld by end 2011 Basin-wide development plan to be agreed by year-end 2010 Extended well test to produce oil in the first half of 2010 Tullow proposes farmdown to CNOOC and Total Tullow to acquire Heritages interests in Blocks 1 and 3A Over 800 mmbo discovered, with 1.5 billion barrels yet to nd 2009 By the end of 2009, 27 wells yield 26 discoveries Commercial threshold exceeded, development team established Major Jobi-Rii oil eld discovered Seven oil discoveries as confidence grows 2008 Kasamene-1 breakthrough opens Victoria Nile Delta play Kingsher-2 ows at over 14,000 bopd Kingsher-1 ows at over 13,000 bopd 2007 Major seismic surveys acquired Tullow acquires Hardman Resources Waraga owed at 12,000 bopd 2004-2006 Wildcat oil discoveries Mputa, Waraga, Nzizi and Kingsher In-ll seismic acquired Tullow acquires Energy Africa Turaco drilling encounters CO2 1997-2003 Reconnaissance seismic acquired Licences awarded International oil companies explore for oil in western Uganda 1986-1993 Ugandas visionaries prepare for oil exploration Uganda gains independence 1938-1962 Ugandan Geological Survey probe Kibero & Kibuku oil seeps Waki-1 first well drilled and oil shows encountered 52 oil seeps documented Oil seeps found centuries ago Petroleum rift basin starts forming 8 million years ago 34 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts regional 3D seismic survey.
In addition, a low-impact weight-drop 3D seismic campaign was successfully trialled over the Kasamene and Wahrindi discoveries.
The trials proved the technology to be robust, quicker and cheaper than conventional seismic equipment and with a much lower environmental impact.
In the Kaiso-Tonya area, the Mputa-5 appraisal well was drilled and successfully tested at a stable flow rate of 950 bopd in March 2009.
The well results validated the state of the art seismic modelling techniques used to identify and target sweet-spots in the reservoir.
This technology will be deployed throughout the Butiaba area.
The near-shore Ngassa-2 well, located in Block 2, commenced drilling in March 2009 from an onshore location.
The well reached a total depth of 3,822 metres and encountered an over-pressured interval indicating the potential for a significant oil column which could cover an area in excess of 150 sq km.
This discovery has the potential to be the largest in the basin to Jobi-1 formerly Buffalo-1, Block 1 2009 date.
Further drilling from offshore locations will be required to test multiple prospects and appraise the expansive Ngassa structure.
Tullow expects to make a commitment to offshore drilling infrastructure in the first half of 2010.
Exploration and appraisal drilling recommenced in January 2010, following a planned three month break.
The first well was the Kasamene appraisal well, Kasamene-2, which successfully confirmed an oil column in excess of 70 metres and a gas column of over 20 metres.
The well has been suspended as a future producer and will be part of the Phase 1 Lake Albert Rift Basin development.
A programme of 10 further exploration and appraisal Kingfisher-2, Block 3A 2008 wells is scheduled to commence in April utilising two land rigs which will also trial development drilling techniques.
Material prospectivity around the Jobi-Rii field will be targeted in Block 1 as well as key appraisal wells in Block 2 in advance of development.
Phased basin-wide development commenced Following significant exploration success in 2009 and the progress made in forming a new aligned partnership, the focus is now on delivering an accelerated development programme.
Tullow is working with the Government of Uganda on clearly defining the phases of development.
Phase 1 is already under way.
Lake Albert Phase 1: This involves the development in Block 2 of the Nzizi gas field, to fuel a regional thermal power station, and the Kasamene oil field Turaco-1, Block 3 2003 for industrial consumption within Uganda.
Tullow has embarked on FEED studies to develop the Nzizi gas field to supply gas to a new-build thermal power plant which will be built in the Hoima District.
com 35 Directors Report: Business review Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued The discovery will be appraised during the second quarter of 2010 and then developed to supply gas to the power plant.
Both the field and power plant will come onstream by the end of 2011.
The power plant is being designed to accept both gas and crude to ensure long-term supply.
Detailed development planning for the Kasamene field commenced in the second half of 2009 and FEED studies are currently under way.
It is expected that a Plan of Development will be submitted to the Government of Uganda by mid-2010 for approval and subsequent project sanction.
Production from this field is expected to commence by the end of 2011.
The oil will initially be transported by truck and later by pipeline to a central gathering and distribution hub for onward transportation to domestic and regional markets.
Initial production capacity is expected to be around 10,000 bopd with the facilities capable of modular expansion, as further phases of the basin development are brought onstream.
An extended well testing programme is planned to support development planning of Kasamene and subsequent fields, and to supplement the appraisal drilling planned for 2010.
This programme, which is focused on gathering essential dynamic production Operations in Butiaba area, Uganda data and testing proposed production systems, The Buffalo-1 well was the initial discovery on the significant will commence in mid-2010, starting with the Buffalo-Giraffe field now renamed Jobi-Rii.
The crude oil produced from the testing operations will be used to supply fuel to local industrial users and provide the first domestically produced oil in sub-Saharan East Uganda production could exceed Africa.
The appraisal drilling and well testing will be complemented by in-fill 2D and 3D 200,000bopd seismic acquisition.
A basin-wide development plan is expected to be agreed Beyond Phase 1: The first objective of the new with partners.
Production levels supplying a local refinery and export could ultimately exceed 200,000 bopd.
proposed partnership will be to agree a basin-wide development plan that will encompass the production of the northern and southern fields via an integrated infrastructure.
Production levels could exceed 200,000 bopd and would supply a local refinery and allow export of surplus crude to regional and international markets.
The proposed Phase 1 development will provide essential subsurface and production data to support this basin-wide development plan.
Congo DRC Tullow has interests in two Congo DRC licences adjacent to its Ugandan acreage on Lake Albert.
Following the award of the licences in 2006, the validity of the award was disputed in 2008.
Tullow continues to work closely with the Government of Congo DRC and is confident of its title to the licences and the integrity of the award process.
Tullow expects the President of Congo DRC to ratify the contracts in the near future.
36 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
