South America In South America, Tullows main focus is on the transform margin from Guyana through Suriname to French Guiana, where the Group is seeking to replicate the success at Jubilee throughout the Equatorial Atlantic region.
Tullows frontier exploration programmes are being matured with a view to a high-impact drilling campaign in 2010 and 2011.
French Guiana Following a complete re-evaluation of the exploration potential of the extensive 32,500 sq km Guyane Maritime block in 2008, the focus of attention shifted to high-impact leads in the southeast portion of the block, the Eastern Slope play.
These leads comprise high-risk stratigraphic traps analogous to the Jubilee field offshore Ghana being formed in similarly aged Upper Cretaceous turbidite fans.
To fide-risk the prospectivity and delineate drilling targets, a 2,500 sq km 3D seismic survey commenced in September 2009 and was completed in March 2010.
Processing and interpretation of this data will take place during the rest of the year.
Planning for drilling operations has commenced with a view to securing a deepwater rig to enable Tullow to spud its first well in the block around year end.
3D Seismic Survey, French Guiana In the fourth quarter of 2009, Tullow farmed out The Geo Caribbean seismic vessel acquired 2,500 sq km 3D during 2009 2010.
33% of its 97.5% holding in this block to Shell and a further 25% to Total, leaving Tullow with 39.5%.
Northpet Investments retains the remaining 2.5%.
Shell has an option to take up a further 12% and Tullows exposure to high-impact drilling in French Guiana the operatorship in late-2010.
The assignment of interests to both Shell and Total await formal approval from the French Government.
39.5% During 2009 Tullow farmed down 33% and a further 25% of its Guyana Guyana Maritime block to Shell and Total respectively where high-risk An extensive 3D seismic survey was completed over stratigraphic traps analogous to Jubilee have been identified.
the Georgetown block early in 2009.
The data has been processed and interpreted and a number of stratigraphic trap prospects at Upper Cretaceous and Tertiary levels have been identified and matured.
A first exploratory well is expected to commence around year-end.
Suriname In the onshore Uitkijk block the drilling programme was completed in early 2009.
The wells were targeting  heavy oil at shallow depths in Lower Tertiary sands analogous to the adjacent Tamberadjo field.
Oil pay was encountered in two wells.
The drilling of five wells in the onshore Coronie block, in the same play, was originally scheduled for 2009 but due to delays with the rig construction this has now moved into 2010. www.
com 53 Directors Report: Business review Brian Macpherson, EHS Superintendent Ngassa wellsite, Uganda 6 Funding for an exceptional set of opportunities We aim to develop the Groups production and cash flow profile to enable us to fund a US$500 million exploration programme per annum so that we can continue to grow and develop Tullow as the leading global independent oil and gas company.
Finance review 56 We delivered results in line with expectations and the Groups financial profile is in a period of transition in anticipation of first oil and production ramp-up in Ghana.
We maintained our dividend this year and invested 758 million on high-impact exploration and developing our major projects.
Risk management 62 As a business we could not function at such a high level unless we are very specific about the identification and management of risk and how we respond to changes in the external environment.
