Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility continued Shareholder relations of our activities.
In addition to regular local Communication with shareholders is given community visits, engagements include local high priority and we hold regular dialogue with radio talk shows and town hall meetings, institutional investors and other Capital Markets which attract a cross section of stakeholders.
Throughout 2009, Executive Directors In Uganda, we opened two Community Liaison and senior management conducted over 200 Offices in 2009 to support our community engagement individual meetings.
The Board receives regular strategy.
Community Liaison Offices act as local reports covering key investor meetings and activities, resource centres providing information not only on as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
Tullows operations, but also on what stakeholders can expect from the emerging oil and gas industry.
Tullow conducted a community investment We will be opening six Community Liaison Offices perception survey in the first quarter of 2010, the in the western region of Ghana in 2010. findings of which will be presented to the Board for consideration in April.
Preliminary headline results Appropriate policies, procedures and confirmed a high level of respect for Tullows management systems management team and strategy.
In addition, Part of Tullows journey has also been to continually the survey found that Tullows Investor Relations develop policies, procedures and management programme is highly rated in relation to a global systems that support the highest standards of companies peer group, oil and gas peers and governance and corporate responsibility.
has a framework for the consistent application of the standards that all of our operations must Community engagement We are committed to open and consistent comply with.
We safeguard this through corporate communication with local stakeholders and we governance processes together with monitoring believe this is pivotal to Tullows reputation as a and oversight by the Board.
Our Community Relations consistent application though Internal teams are keeping local communities informed Audit reviews.
Living our values We have a shared vision across the Focus on results Integrity and respect business wherever we work.
Living Strong sense of focus on results, Work with integrity and with driving tasks and projects through respect for people, and for our values captures and articulates to completion with the exibility the environments in which the four main aspects of the way we to adapt to changing situations.
do business in Tullow: so that everyone working for or with Tullow can be Focus aligned with our expectations.
on results Our values are prominently displayed across the Tullow world.
We use them as the foundation of our recruitment and performance management Commitment processes, demonstrating that how Integrity to Tullow and respect we do things is just as important and each as what we do.
other In a rapidly growing organisation such as ours, it is easy to forget the fundamentals of success and we Entrepreneurial are determined to maintain the core spirit and values we started with and which Commitment to Entrepreneurial initiative have strongly contributed to our Tullow and each other spirit and initiative phenomenal success story.
Work in a collaborative manner, Maintain our entrepreneurial empowering ourselves and others, and creative spirit as we In our 2009 employee survey, 76% whilst taking responsibility for challenge ourselves to develop of respondents were positive that our actions.
these values were alive at Tullow.
70 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts In 2009 these reviews included the application of Human resource policies Living our values, the delegation of authority and budgetary approval, Harassment and Equal Opportunity establish a consistent set of values and standards for managing EHS statistical reporting procedures and employee induction processes.
employees and contractors throughout the Group: Key aspects of our policies and systems include: Supply chain management have detailed procedures for tendering, evaluation, selection Code of Business Conduct incorporating General and award of contracts that require competitive Business Principles, Ethics & Integrity Policy, tendering and evaluation with management Whistleblowing Policy and Human Rights Policy approval for all significant contract awards: setting out the required standards for employee Risk management guideline defines the process and contractor behaviour: for identifying, quantifying and managing risk Integrated Management System which sets throughout the entire asset life cycle: and minimum business standards to be used Crisis management plans define the philosophy throughout Tullow, including EHS risk and approach to managing any local emergency management guidelines: or company crisis.
EHS policy sets out Tullows commitment to Further, Tullow has re-certified the corporate high standards of EHS performance across Environmental Management System to ISO 14001 the business supported by EHS leadership standard in 2009.
During this process, specific audits commitment statements: have been carried out in the UK, Dublin, Cape Town, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Mauritania.
The application Tullow Oil Environmental Standards toes provides of this standard provides a framework for identifying guidance and information to internal and external and evaluating key areas of environmental risk, stakeholders on Tullows management approach risk management and review through all phases to environmental issues and acts as a knowledge of operations.
sharing tool within the organisation: Hathay Bunano project in Bangladesh The communities surrounding our Bangora operations in the Comilla District, Bangladesh, are predominately employed in the agricultural sector, which offers very few employment opportunities for women.
Our partnership with social business enterprise, Hathay Bunano Proshikhan Society HBps generates sustainable income and economic opportunities for women by offering training and employment in the production of crochet toys.
Currently 200 women have completed training and are now earning independent incomes.
The centre also offers free child care and very flexible working conditions.
com 71 Directors Report: Business review
