On track Jubilee special feature On track for the fastest ever full scale deep water development This has been a major collaborative effort between the field partners and contractors both in Ghana and internationally.
It sets a new industry benchmark.
Stuart Wheaton, Ghana Development Manager Eirik Raude, semi-submersible, offshore Ghana www.
com 39 Jubilee special feature continued Our journey to first oil and beyond March 2006 Ghana licences signed June 2007 3.5 years from discovery to first oil In 2007, based on the results of the first two exploration wells, the Jubilee field partners and the Government of Ghana jointly took the early decision to proceed with the development of the Jubilee field.
An Integrated Project Team IPT was rapidly assembled, bringing together major deepwater skills and experience from across the partnership.
In parallel, Tullow quickly developed a deepwater development drilling capability and a total of 16 wells have been drilled to date.
First oil is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2010, representing a record time from discovery to delivery of major deepwater production.
Environment, health and safety EHS The Jubilee field Supporting people and the environment Tullows EHS performance in Ghana is excellent with only two lost time Ghana Jubilee incidents in 2.1 million hours worked Odum and no major environmental incidents.
Tweneboa Our EHS policy sets out the standards and expectations to manage key EHS risks in our operations and, Tullow on behalf of the as an example, a comprehensive field partners has worked Environmental Impact Assessment The integrated project team closely with the local people, EIA was carried out during 2009 including wide public consultation of government and interest Established in February 2008 stakeholders.
Key components of the groups throughout its time to prepare the Jubilee Plan EIA include environmental monitoring, of Development and deliver in Ghana.
These relationships waste management, oil spill contingency a fully commissioned field have been an important factor in planning and community engagement development system.
our ability to achieve EIA approval for the Jubilee development.
GNPC Ghanas National oil company, a field partner Cesar Molina, EHS Manager Ghana and national regulator Tullow Oil plc Helping local fisheries in the community Unit operator of the Jubilee Phase 1 development Tullow is working closely with the KOSMOS Energy fishing industry in Ghana to generate US exploration company.
Technical operator of the awareness of the Jubilee project while Jubilee Phase 1 project supporting sustainable development Anadarko of the fishing communities along Large independent US E&P company with proven the western region.
deepwater project capabilities and a major contributor to the team Invested Sabre Oil and Gas Privately owned exploration company EO Group Ltd 0.7million Local fishermen in Takoradi, Ghana Ghanaian oil company 40 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 1st Jubilee discovery well: Mahogany-1 August 2007 2nd Jubilee discovery well: Hyedua-1 Emmanuel Kwadjo-Dei, Trainee Production Operator, and Randy Griffin, Senior Operations Readiness Engineer on the FPSO in Singapore.
Well engineering Exceptional oil and reservoir quality Industry Leading Performance The quality of the Jubilee oil and reservoirs was apparent Independently ranked as the top performing drilling team after drilling only two wells.
Production well tests have operating in West African deepwater.
since demonstrated reservoir connectivity over 6km and excellent productivity.
Hyedua-1 Mahogany-1 8 of9 6 2 production water injection gas injection wells drilled wells drilled wells drilled Water depth 1,320m The Eirik Raude: Proven technology at work The exceptional performance of the Eirik Raude, a fifth generation Jubliee Field semi submersible rig that is home to 120 crew, has enabled operations to Total depth 4,002m continue non-stop since October 2008.
Metres drilled Oilquality: Productionwell FPSOcapacity: 37.6degree capacity:Over 120,000bopd API 20,000bopd 48,133 www.
com 41 Jubilee special feature continued February 2008 Tullow designated as field unit operator February 2008 Jubilee Phase 1 4.
Facilities delivery Accelerating construction and delivery deadlines By delivering first oil in the fourth quarter of 2010, the project will have realised production in just 3 years from discovery.
This achievement is a reflection of the confidence and commitment by all partners to invest based on discovery and appraisal well results alone.
A highly experienced project team, comprised of personnel We have worked very from the main partners including Tullow, Anadarko Petroleum closely with our contractors and led by Technical Operator Kosmos Energy, has set out to and suppliers to deliver deliver a quality outcome in record time.
Proven contractors have used proven designs to meet functional rather than truly precise incredible efficiencies.
This has resulted in some quite dramatic schedule project is an outstanding reductions when benchmarked to general industry performance.
Key contractors involved in the facilities delivery include Dennis McLaughlin, IPT, Project Director MODEC Inc. FPSO, Technip flowlines, risers and installation, and FMC and Aker Solutions.
FPSO topside module fabrication completed on time Water treatment modules Oil processing modules Gas compression modules Turret structure Malaysia Indonesia Singapore Malaysia Fabricated by Aker Solutions Fabricated by VME Process, Fabricated by Dyna-mac Fabricated by Malaysia Marine at Port Klang to process over Batam to process 120,000 Engineering Services to & Heavy Engineering.
One of 230,000 barrels per day of sea barrels of oil per day through handle up to 160 mmscfd of the worlds largest external water for reservoir injection.
produced gas for re-injection turret structures mounted and export to shore.
on the bow of the FPSO to connect to the subsea flowlines and control lines.
42 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts development commences January 2009 Hyedua-2 tested at 16,750 bopd Turret lift, FPSO construction site, Singapore www.
com 43 Jubilee special feature continued May 2009 Mahogany-1 tested at 21,000 bopd July 2009 Phase 1 Development Plan The exceptional performance of 5.
Sub-sea system delivery the Eirik Raude rig and crew has been key to ensuring that this Sub-sea fabrication world-class project remains well underway on budget and on schedule.
Over 40 km of subsea flowlines will connect the Alan Dowokpor, Well Engineering Manager, Ghana 17 oil production and water gas injection wells to the FPSO and 28 km of umbilicals will control the wells and ensure optimum production.
The project has employed the latest technology and worked with proven contractors who have delivered an excellent performance.
The fabrication of subsea equipment has taken place in the UK, Singapore, USA, France, Finland, Norway and Ghana.
In January 2010, equipment began arriving to Ghana and installation, to last some nine months, commenced.
Subsea trees USA, Singapore, UK, Norway Fabricated by Technip.
Flexible riser flow Supplied by FMC.
The subsea trees control lines will be used to connect the FPSO to the the production or injection of individual wells.
19 have been ordered for the Jubilee Phase 1 project.
44 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and field unitisation approved December 2009 EIA approved 6.
Operations readiness Upgrading marine services and port facilities Port facilities at Takoradi and Sekondi, which are key to Jubilee land-based operations, have been upgraded.
This included new access roads, offices, canteens, warehouses, communications, housing and reinforced cement foundations for handling heavy materials.
Civil engineering works for production Quayside at Takoradi port, Ghana 100% complete Building new staff offices and housing Tullow continues to upgrade the in-country infrastructure and make investments with local contractors.
In Accra, Tullow is building a new head office and modern staff housing.
In Takoradi, a supply base, an aviation service to Accra and offshore, a major marine operation and a new regional head-office have all been established.
Staff in Ghana 138employees Design for new offices in Accra, Ghana 85% are Ghanaian Significant aviation requirements Tullow has leased two latest generation helicopters and secured the services of several fixed wing aircraft to transport staff and contractors 100 km offshore and from the main airport at Accra 240 km to the port in Takoradi.
Manifolds USA Investment in infrastructure Supplied by FMC.
Manifolds either aggregate production or distribute water and gas to the injection wells.
25million New helicopters, Takoradi, Ghana www.
com 45 Jubilee special feature continued Q3 2010 FPSO to arrive in Ghana Q4 2010 First oil 7.
Installation, Commissioning and Ready for Start-up Our outstanding in-country team Production ramp up Q4 2010 Subsea equipment installation Various production ramp up scenarios work commenced in Ghana have been forecast.
A fleet of of testing, production will gradually 14 vessels is directly involved increase over approximately six months in shipping and then installing to a plateau level of 120,000 bopd.
the flowlines, umbilicals, The ramp up in production thereafter controls, manifolds and subsea will depend on the number of wells wellhead trees.
The operation from further phases of development is being run from the port that have been completed and the I am extremely proud of Takoradi-Sekondi in FPSO subsea equipment performance.
of the in-country team we have built since 2008.
The facility installation work Jubilee Phase 1 production ramp up will take up to nine months to Tullows policy is to 000 bopd complete including the tie-in employ as many local 120 of the FPSO during the third nationals as possible and 100 quarter.
This will be followed currently over 80% of our 80 by a period of commissioning 60 of the vessel and subsea employees are Ghanaian systems in-situ and oil is 40 and we expect this to rise expected to start producing 20 to over 90% by 2013. into the facilities in the 0 Dai Jones, President & General Manager fourth quarter.
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 Tullow Ghana High case Low case Crude oil sample Marketing Jubilee crude oil Jubilee crude oil is light and sweet.
Independent laboratory analysis indicates that the crude has an API Gravity of 37.6 degrees and sulphur content of 0.25 % wt, with no unusual characteristics.
Crude oils of this type attract a wide range of refiners and can be expected to command competitive prices in the market.
When producing at 120,000 bopd, three or four large cargoes will be exported each month and Tullows share will be marketed individually on a cargo by cargo basis.
Follow our progress at www.
com 46 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
