Ghana and Equatorial Atlantic Tullows position in the Equatorial Atlantic region offshore West Africa incorporates 11 blocks covering Sierra Guinea Leone four countries: Sierra Leone, Liberia, Cte dIvoire and Ghana.
In total the Group has prospective acreage over an area of approximately 24,000 sq km stretching along 1,100 km of coastline.
Liberia 2009 has been another very successful year in this Cte d'Ivoire Ghana region for Tullow.
The Group drilled six exploration and appraisal wells of which five encountered hydrocarbons.
Successful wells included the discovery of the significant Tweneboa oil and gas-condensate field and the Venus-1 well, which Venus proved the extension of the Jubilee play significantly Discovery westwards.
In addition, excellent progress was made on the Phase 1 Jubilee development project which remains on budget and on schedule for first oil in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Jubilee Major exploration and appraisal success in Ghana Oil eld Following the successful Mahogany-3 appraisal Odum Oil & gas condensate eld Tweneboa well in the West Cape Three Points licence at the Tullow operated block end of 2008, an exploratory appraisal programme Tullow non-operated block in the south-eastern part of the Greater Jubilee Jubilee Phase 1 development area area commenced in October 2009.
To date, the Mahogany-4 and Mahogany Deep-2 wells have been West African Equatorial Atlantic region drilled.
Both encountered significant oil reservoirs and Tullow has interests in 11 blocks across four countries in the highlighted further prospectivity to the south and east.
Equatorial Atlantic region offshore West Africa.
The total gross resource base for the Greater Jubilee Area is considered to range from 600 mmbo P90 to yield significant volumes of condensate and light oil.
Gross resource volume estimates for the through a most likely 1,200 mmbo P50 to an upside 1,800 mmbo P10.
Interpretation of the recent Tweneboa-Owo-Ntomme fan complex have been revised upwards to 100 mmboe P90 through appraisal and development drilling results has however enabled Tullow to better define the resource a most likely 400 mmboe P50 to an upside of 1,400 mmboe P10.
estimates for the Jubilee Unit Area within these gross resource estimates.
The Jubilee Unit Area The success at Tweneboa is being followed up by is considered to have a gross resource base of 500 an accelerated exploration and appraisal drilling mmbo P90 through a most likely 700 mmbo P50 programme in 2010 which will include a flow test.
This resource The first wells will be the Owo-1 exploration well base will be developed in several phases, of which and Tweneboa-3 which will target the Ntomme lobe Phase 1 is under way with first oil expected in the in the southeast of the fan.
In November 2009 the Odum discovery was The remainder of the Greater Jubilee potential is to successfully appraised by the Odum-2 well.
the southeast and includes the Sapele and Dahoma This accumulation will likely be developed as satellite exploration prospects.
The next stage of a satellite to further discoveries in the area.
exploratory appraisal in the south-eastern area commenced in February 2010 with the spudding Following the reprocessing of the high resolution 3D of the Dahoma-1 well.
This will be followed by seismic acquired in 2008, significant prospectivity has Mahogany-5 in April.
been identified in the West Cape Three Points licence east of the Greater Jubilee Area.
Detailed seismic In March 2009, the Tweneboa-1 exploration well in interpretation is ongoing in order to optimise the drilling the Deep Water Tano block, targeting a 200 sq km location for a strategic exploration well in this area.
turbidite fan complex, discovered a significant light hydrocarbon accumulation.
The first appraisal well, The Ghana prospect inventory, plus the Tweneboa-2, was drilled six km southeast of the discovered resources in the Greater Jubilee Area discovery well in January 2010 and proved up a and Tweneboa-Owo-Ntomme amount to a gross combined oil and gas-condensate column of at least upside potential of over 4.5 billion boe.
This has confirmed Tweneboa as a major oil and gas-condensate field with potential www.
com 37 Directors Report: Business review Togo Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued Jubilee play extended into the Jubilee play fairways and will be followed In the first half of 2009, Tullow farmed-in to three up with the acquisition of 2,300 sq km of 3D seismic blocks in Liberia and two blocks in Sierra Leone, data over the CI-103 and CI-105 licences with a view significantly expanding the Groups exposure to to firming up additional prospectivity.
the Jubilee play in the West African Equatorial Excellent progress on Jubilee Phase 1 development Atlantic region.
This was immediately followed The Jubilee Phase 1 development project continues by the acquisition of 6,000 sq km of high quality to meet key project milestones, is on track for first oil 3D seismic data, one of the largest surveys ever in the fourth quarter of 2010 and remains within its recorded.
The results are currently being interpreted US$3.1 billion budget.
The project will produce first to high-grade a comprehensive prospect inventory oil approximately 40 months after the field was which includes a large number of Jubilee-type discovered, a new benchmark for global deep water stratigraphic traps.
In September, Tullow participated developments.
Significant regulatory milestones in the Venus-B1 exploration well in Sierra Leone, were also achieved in 2009 including the formal the first ever deepwater well in the Liberian basin.
approval by the Government of Ghana of the Jubilee The well encountered hydrocarbons and proved Plan of Development, the signing of the Field a working petroleum system with geological Unitisation Agreement and the approval of the characteristics analogous to those offshore Ghana.
Further These well results have been integrated with development phases, to access the significant the Liberian seismic data to calibrate this highly resource potential of the Jubilee Unit Area, up prospective deepwater acreage.
Three wells are to 1,000 mmbo, are now being prepared and planned on this acreage in the second half of 2010. will include further infill wells, additional subsea In Cte dIvoire, the South Grand Lahou-1 well, systems and reviewing the possibility of increasing chasing the Jubilee play, was drilled in the CI-105 the capacity of the Floating, Production, Storage licence in October 2009.
It encountered the targeted and Offloading vessel FPSO.
reservoir sands on prognosis but found them Good progress was made on the FPSO construction water-bearing at this location.
The data gained in Singapore during 2009.
All process modules and is however providing valuable proprietary insights the external turret have now been installed and module integration and commissioning work is ongoing.
Fabrication of the subsea equipment including manifolds, risers, flowlines and control umbilicals was completed in 2009 and installation work commenced in January 2010.
The FPSO is scheduled to leave Singapore for Ghana in the second quarter of 2010 and will be connected to the subsea network during the fourth quarter of 2010.
Phase 1 development includes nine production wells which are expected to produce at a plateau rate of 120,000 bopd.
Pressure support will be provided by six water injection wells and two gas injection wells.
The wells are being drilled and completed by the Eirik Raude semi submersible rig.
Operations to date have been on time and on budget with 16 wells drilled and the installation of production tubing and completion equipment now under way.
Well completion operations, expected to take approximately 15 months, commenced in February 2010.
Well results continue to be in line with pre-drill expectations.
Well testing has proven deliverability in excess of 20,000 bopd per well and reservoir connectivity over distances exceeding six kilometres.
Gas produced during oil production will initially be re-injected to provide pressure support for production.
An export project to deliver gas to shore for power generation is however under consideration by GNPC.
Jubilee subsea equipment in Takoradi, Ghana It is expected that in the longer term, the Jubilee Installation of the subsea trees and umbilicals above field will supply approximately 70% of its associated commenced in the first quarter of 2010. gas to this scheme.
38 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
