Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Parent Company financial statements comply with the Group Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements other irregularities.
under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance of the corporate and financial information included on the with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
Directors responsibility statement required by DTR 4.1.
12R This requires the faithful representation of the effects of We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and income and expenses set out in the International Accounting fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all consolidation taken as a whole: and circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors The management report, which is incorporated into the are also required to: Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Properly select and apply accounting policies: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Present information, including accounting policies, in taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable risks and uncertainties that they face.
and understandable information: and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the By order of the Board specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Company The Directors have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Aidan Heavey Ian Springett Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The Parent Company 9 March 2010 9 March 2010 financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
106 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Independent auditors report To the members of Tullow Oil plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Tullow Oil plc Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2009 which comprise the Group In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive for the financial year for which the financial statements are income and expense, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
statement and the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting Matters on which we are required to report by exception framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, as adopted by the European Union.
in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies by law are not made: or Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required We have not received all the information and explanations to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for The Directors statement contained within the Directors this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report in relation to going concern: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified for our review.
Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they Other matters give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group We have reported separately on the parent company financial financial statements in accordance with applicable law and statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those 2009 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Report that is described as having been audited.
Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Matthew Donaldson Senior Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have London, UK been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 9 March 2010 by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 and of its profit for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB www.
