Directors Report: Business review Our approach to exploration and production A fully integrated approach to our business with strong teamwork, appropriate technology and an entrepreneurial culture is enabling us to deliver extraordinary results from our Exploration and Appraisal and Production and Development teams.
Angus McCoss Paul McDade Exploration Director Chief Operating Officer Exploration and Appraisal E&A and Production and Development P&D are two critical parts of Tullows How we create value business.
In E&A we explore for oil and gas resources We create value in two using geographical and geophysical expertise and main ways, by growing and then commercialising our technologies, balancing high-risk exploration drilling resource base.
In P&D we develop and produce these discovered resources, growing our revenue to fund our annual exploration programme.
Read more on page 10 Tullows E&A and P&D teams use a simple, formula for maximum performance.
The reasons behind their Jubilee special feature outstanding results are a combination of strong First oil in Ghana this year will teamwork, the right technology for each job and create a new record from a genuinely entrepreneurial culture.
discovery to delivery of major deepwater production.
We strive to ensure that the E&A and P&D teams are fully and seamlessly embedded into the Groups overall business development and growth objectives.
This is co-ordinated at Group level through the Board Read more on page 39 and Executive team, who consider the overall capital and resource allocation and adjust the balance Corporate responsibility between the pace of exploration, appraisal, We believe good corporate development and production campaigns with responsibility is fundamental to implementing our strategy a view to maximising shareholder value.
and accomplishing our strategic objective.
Read more on page 68 26 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Exploration and Appraisal Tullows strategy enables bold exploration led-growth.
By combining geological insight, teamwork, focus and a lot of experience, we reduce risk and create significant value by discovering natures hidden oil.
To do this well we dont follow the pack, we try and lead it.
Angus McCoss, Exploration Director Our performance in exploration is marked by Rift basins are a fundamentally rich setting notable and consistent success.
Theres no secret to for petroleum exploration and benefit it.
Strong exploration teams from excellent source rocks and generally are built on a basis of openness, trust and creativity.
Tullow has They are equipped with the most appropriate and gained extensive expertise in this core play, often highly innovative technology, have vast and mainly in Uganda.
diverse experience and a clear geological focus.
Salt basins Salt is a first class seal and salt This is what makes us different, what gives us an tectonics form a rich diversity of Salt Basin trap edge.
In a sense, this is Tullows unique selling point.
Tullows seismic acquisition, processing Utilising our collective skills and integrating them and interpretation expertise in Salt Basins provides for maximum performance, has led us directly a tangible competitive advantage, which we are to major discoveries such as those in Ghana applying to our acreage in Mauritania and Senegal.
None of us is as smart as all of us The right technology at the right time Ultimately oil is found through creative teamwork.
In applying our scientific approach Tullow draws on When recruiting and developing staff, we emphasise another key determinant of success applying the skills in play-making, prospecting and appraising.
right technologies at the right time.
We select the best We also encourage and develop those who have methods and tools at each point of the exploration particular technical expertise to deepen their skills, cycle from new venture identification through seismic ensuring Tullow stays at the leading-edge of industry acquisition, processing and interpretation to precise practice.
While Tullow values and fosters individual well location and drilling methods.
We continuously creativity in prospecting, this is amplified by scrutinise our exploration portfolio selecting only the imaginative teamwork and thorough scientific best leads to be matured into prospects before being evaluation by multi-disciplinary teams.
Typically only the top 10% of the prevailing our teams to include partners in the industry and lead inventory will be drilled in any year.
governments, whose independent approach, local knowledge and basin-wide perspectives make a Geology before geography valuable contribution to exploration success.
Only 0.5% of the surface of the earth has readily movable oil or gas beneath it.
To target only the Learning from experience highest value quartile of this tiny oil patch, we limit Oil and gas exploration always carries a significant ourselves to exploring less than 0.125% of the earths risk of failure.
But in this industry any failure helps surface.
This is a tough challenge and one which is us to become better.
There is no blame or shame in best tackled through scientific methods.
a dry-hole, provided that it was drilled for the right reasons, after due scientific process gave a green Putting geology before geography means we focus light.
Even the latest and the best technology and on building prospective acreage positions and methods, such as advanced 3D seismic, cannot strengthening our business relationships in areas with completely remove geological risks.
This is especially well-founded potential for oil.
For Tullow, this means the case when geological risks in new basins we focus on three core play types and we leverage can only be calibrated by referring to distant wells.
our capabilities in those plays across the world.
The And they can be very distant.
For example, Tullows Group has 200 to 300 leads and prospects, covering successful Venus-B well in Sierra Leone was 1,100 all stages of evaluation from initial screening through km from the nearest comparable discovery, in to delivering commercial discoveries.
Each of the core deepwater Ghana.
Without these challenges, finding plays is proven to have first class potential and each oil and gas would be easy.
But such challenges, comes with its particular value and challenges.
along with our occasional failures, help us to better Stratigraphic traps can have exceptional upside understand the geological plays and the technology and methods we use, and to hone our interpretation and often lie subtly within held acreage.
We are developing proven expertise in this play and skills.
We learn equally from discoveries and from dry-holes.
Planning and decisions are guided by in particular in the vast potential that lies in the Equatorial Atlantic regions of West Africa and the understanding that we garner in the course South America.
com 27 Directors Report: Business review Directors Report: Business review Our approach to exploration and production continued Equally, what we decide not to do is often what sets experience and oversees the overall management us apart from the rest of the industry.
Tullows of our exploration initiatives and ultimately decides which prospects will be drilled.
successes in the Equatorial Atlantic are firmly based on our focus on Upper Cretaceous turbidites, whilst The team comprises two distinct elements which most of the industry concentrated on the younger operate in a kind of critical tension, given their Tertiary turbidite prospects elsewhere.
There are regional exploration managers who work Building and developing exploration capability closely with the regional business units.
There are Our capability owes a great deal to the way in which portfolio managers for exploration, technology we can attract and retain people.
The combination of and new ventures, along with industry specialists.
our track record and our reputation for exciting and Their function is to assist, challenge and assure, challenging geological projects makes us an attractive as appropriate, in regard to technical, commercial employer for some of the most experienced playmakers and financial considerations.
and prospectors in the industry today.
The best geoscientists are independent thinkers who are also Essentially, this means we get a rigorous and great team players and thats why they feel at home objective exploration process which sifts out with Tullow.
Our Global Exploration Leadership Team weaker leads and concentrates on the most GELT of 15 leading explorers has over 300 years promising opportunities.
Production and Development In P&D we work to ensure that Tullows exploration success translates into long-term value for shareholders and the countries in which we operate.
In 2010, we are driving towards first oil in Ghana and considerable effort will be focused on developing our assets in Uganda.
Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer Our ability to achieve timely commercialisation of our to the Banda gas field in Mauritania where many hydrocarbon resources requires us to identify very of our ideas have been taken on board by both the clearly what assets merit development and which operator and by the national government.
Similarly, are better suited to dilution or sale.
This ensures in Namibia we are working as a team combining that our exploration success, which has resulted the skills of the upstream, downstream and power in very significant growth in hydrocarbon resources, companies, along with the government, to translates into long-term value for our shareholders.
commercialise the Kudu gas field.
Unique culture delivers strong results Developing local skills and content Tullows unique culture has reaped benefits for Developing local skills and content is just as the Group and has helped harness co-operation and important as developing local oil and gas fields.
knowledge from industry partners and contractors.
In Ghana and Uganda, Tullow works in partnership Ghanas Jubilee deepwater development exemplifies with government on a variety of development projects.
the success of this approach.
The field has delivered In Ghana, for example, we have trained staff from the a new industry benchmark, with the first oil expected national oil company and worked with the maritime in just over three years from discovery of this field.
agency to help local fisherman whilst protecting Elsewhere, our new deepwater well engineering new offshore assets.
In Uganda, we have sponsored team has been independently ranked as the top projects to educate people in the Lake Albert area performing team in West Africa deepwater.
about sustainable fishing practices, swimming, A team approach at all times lifesaving skills and health training.
New roads We believe that the team approach which has and transport links will also benefit the region.
served Tullow so well in recent years can deliver Managing the environment outstanding results in many of the partnerships in Our approach to the environmental impact of which we are involved and where others operate our operations is simple and exacting.
At a bare assets on our behalf.
minimum, it is our policy that there should be no For example, in many projects involving in-fill wells net loss in environmental terms wherever we work.
and incremental developments we contribute ideas We also strive for a net gain over the course of our to ensure that the capital we spend is used as involvement in any given area.
This means very careful efficiently as possible.
This is the case in relation planning and using a range of alternative options 28 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Drilling operations on the Mahogany-4 well, offshore Ghana Mahogany-4 formed part of the exploratory appraisal programme in the south-eastern part of the Greater Jubilee area.
and solutions so that we can protect, sustain We also learn lessons when things go wrong.
and contribute to environmental management In 2009, Tullow had its first fatality with the tragic death of a subcontractor working wherever Tullow is active.
We immediately launched Environmental concerns are a core component initiates to identify improvements in practice of Tullows values and are absolutely central to across the Group.
Over 85% of our staff attended a our current and future success.
Environmental and Tullow-wide workshop devoted to learning lessons Social Impact Assessments ESIAs are produced by from this tragic accident.
Further information on independent consultants in order to ensure a robust our response is on page 73 of this report.
and comprehensive account of the potential effects of our activities.
Our overall strategy for environmental Value creation through focused commercialisation management is a key element within our business Whilst Tullow has continued to increase its capital model and has been independently certified to the expenditure on development and production, with internationally recognised ISO 14001 standard.
around 600 million planned in 2010, the discipline In addition, core parts of our published data are of high-grading assets for development at the independently assessed and assured.
Ultimately, appropriate equity participation level ensures we strive to ensure that our mitigation and capital is used efficiently along with available preventative strategies effectively minimise human resources.
By diluting or selling equity our environmental impact.
in other assets, we aim to ensure these are also commercialised in a timely manner.
This high-grading Safe working and continuous learning process is also applied to incremental investments in As Tullow has grown we have always tried ensure producing assets so that they attract the correct level that the health and safety of our workers, and of those of investment to deliver optimal reserves recovery around us, is never compromised.
We formed an EHS and production levels.
Leadership Team comprising senior managers who have daily responsibility in this area.
The integrated In 2010, we will continue to drive towards first oil nature of this working group means that best in Ghana in the fourth quarter and considerable effort practices are shared and implemented right across will be focused on developing world-class discoveries all of our operations.
around Lake Albert in Uganda.
As in Ghana, Tullows approach in Uganda is collaborative, involving all In 2009, the EHS leadership team introduced partners and our host government.
This will harness new initiatives such as operational management the full range of skills and experience to ensure the commitment statements, where each member best long-term commercialisation in this states how they plan to deliver a safe working environmentally sensitive area.
environment for their staff and stakeholders.
A new EHS training programme has been designed and launched and will roll out to 110 managers across the Group during 2010. www.
com 29 Directors Report: Business review Allan Mugisha, Trainee Drilling Engineer Kampala office, Uganda 4 Success and progress in Africa Our operations in Africa delivered an outstanding performance in 2009.
We made major discoveries and fide-risked our portfolio with important basin-defining wells and our development projects are on target to deliver the first step in major production growth from the end of 2010.
Uganda 33 With over 800 million barrels of resources and strong new partners entering the Lake Albert Rift Basin, the Group is poised to accelerate exploration, appraisal and development.
Ghana and Equatorial Atlantic 37 This region holds huge potential for Tullow.
Jubilee and Tweneboa are major discoveries with considerable upside potential and Tullow has exposure to prospective acreage in four countries along the Equatorial Atlantic coastline.
Jubilee case study 39 This special feature details progress since the first discovery wells in 2007, and demonstrates how we and our partners are developing the Jubilee field in record time.
Other Africa operations 47 The Groups African operations are delivering two thirds of current production from assets in Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Cte dIvoire, Congo Brazzaville and Mauritania.
