The Groups Rest of the World assets form an important part of Tullows business.
Gas production in the UK and South Asia generate strong revenues and combine low risk exploration prospects and development opportunities in Europe with highimpact potential in South America and South Asia.
Europe Tullows well established producing assets lie in the Southern Gas Basin offshore UK and are centred around two gas producing hubs, associated fields and infrastructure.
Tullow also has a portfolio of operated exploration blocks offshore the Netherlands where it is looking to capitalise on the exploration success it has experienced in adjacent UK blocks over the last seven years.
In 2009, the CMSAreaproduction, offshoreUK decision was taken to assign the Groups Portuguese The Ketch field produced above expectation in 2009. interests to other licence partners, following completion of an agreed work programme and detailed analysis of the results.
UK UKs contribution to Group production Net UK production for 2009 was in line with expectations at 14,450 boepd 2008: 20,095 boepd.
Several factors were responsible for this 28% 25% reduction including the sale of Tullows Hewett field The UK remains an important part of the Groups producing asset base with 14,450 boepd produced in 2009. interests in 2008, the re-scheduling of in-fill wells in the CMS Area and natural field decline.
EHS performance and production efficiency were excellent on the Groups operated fields throughout the year.
ceased production in August following a build-up Successful in-fill drilling and well interventions were of salt in the well bore.
completed on Boulton and Murdoch and will help support future production levels.
The Harrison discovery provides the most attractive near term development opportunity in the CMS Area.
In the Thames Area, the modifications to allow Work on this project progressed in 2009 and a Joint combined flow from the Wissey and Horne & Wren Operating Agreement was signed by the field fields were completed in May 2009, thereby boosting partners.
Major capital expenditure was deferred Thames infrastructure throughput and improving to 2010 and first gas is now expected in 2012. asset longevity.
The Bure North development well In addition, the partnership is evaluating drilling targeted an infill opportunity in the Bure field but possibilities on the adjacent Cameron prospect.
results showed that the reservoir compartment was The scope of the Harrison development is likely depleted by other producing wells in the area and to include the option to tie-in a successful consequently the well was abandoned.
In the CMS Area, the operated Ketch field performed above expectation during 2009.
During July 2009, works to tie-in the third-party Topaz development to the Schooner platform were successfully completed.
Production from this field commenced in November adding tariff income and reducing unit operating cost of the field.
The KA-08Z infill well on the Ketch field has been sanctioned and is due to spud in the second quarter of 2010.
Planning and design work is well advanced and a rig has been secured.
In 2009, three non-operated infill wells were drilled on the Murdoch and Boulton fields.
These wells added over 100 mmscfd to CMS gross production.
Further infill opportunities are being considered for 2010 including a re-drill of the Boulton B1 well which www.
com 51 Directors Report: Business review
