Directors Report: Corporate governance Other statutory information Results and dividends Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a show The profit on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group for of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show of hands the year ended 31 December 2009 amounted to 18.5 million every shareholder who is present in person at a general 2008: 226.2 million.
meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the An interim dividend of Stg2.0p 2008: Stg2.0p per ordinary share number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by was paid on 6 November 2009.
The Directors recommend a final the proxy.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in dividend of Stg4.0p 2008: Stg4.0p per ordinary share which, person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by if approved at the 2010 AGM, will be paid on 21 May 2010 to that shareholder the deadline for exercising voting rights by shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
A poll may be demanded on 16 April 2010. by any of the following: a the Chairman of the meeting: b at Subsequent events least five shareholders entitled to vote and present in person In January 2010, the Group announced the successful or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate placing and subsequent issue of a total of 80,431,796 new representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or ordinary shares with institutions at Stg1,150.0p per share.
This shareholders present in person or by proxy or represented by represented an increase of approximately 9.99% in Tullows a duly authorised corporate representative and representing existing issued share capital.
These shares were credited in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting as fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with existing rights of all shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company, meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders present in including the right to receive all dividends and other person or by proxy or represented by a duly authorised distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect corporate representative and holding shares conferring of such shares after the date of issue.
a right to attend and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate equal to not less In January 2010, the Group announced that it had exercised than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares its pre-emption rights over Heritage Oils Ugandan sale for up to conferring that right.
In addition, two new potential partners have been identified, CNOOC and Total, and it is expected that Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the each partner will acquire a one third interest in each of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking three Ugandan blocks.
priority, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to In January 2010, the Group announced that the appraisal well, the amounts paid up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator Tweneboa 2, proved up a combined oil and gas-condensate may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the column of at least 35 metres.
This has confirmed Tweneboa shareholders and any other sanction required by the as a major oil and gas-condensate field.
applicable legislation, a divide among the shareholders Share capital the whole or any part of the Companys assets: or b vest the As at 9 March 2010, the Company had an allotted and fully paid Companys assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such up share capital of 884,749,772 ordinary shares of Stg10p each trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is with an aggregate nominal value of 88,474,977.20. compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
Substantial shareholdings Control rights under employee share schemes As at 9 March 2010, the Company had been notified of the The Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
following significant holdings being 3% or more in the Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by trustees on Companys ordinary share capital.
The employees are not entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control rights.
The trustees will Number % of issued generally vote in accordance with employees' instructions and Shareholder of shares capital abstain where no instructions are received.
Unallocated shares BlackRock Inc 107,963,933 12.20% are generally voted at the discretion of the trustees.
Prudential plc 72,123,865 8.15% Restrictions on holding securities IFG International Trust There are no restrictions under the Companys Articles of Company Limited 38,960,366 4.40% Association or under UK law that either restrict the rights of Legal & General Group Plc 32,230,429 3.64% UK resident shareholders to hold shares or limit the right of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or vote the Shareholders rights Companys ordinary shares.
The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are as follows: There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys Dividend rights holders of the Companys ordinary shares ordinary shares.
may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets.
com 101 Directors Report: Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Other statutory information continued Material agreements containing change of control provisions which amount will become immediately due and payable, The following significant agreements will, in the event of a in the event that any person or group of persons acting change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: in concert gains control of the Company.
US$1.785 billion senior secured revolving credit facility For the purposes of these provisions, a control has the agreement between, among others, the Company and certain meaning given to it under section 416 of the Income and subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and b acting in concert plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Standard Chartered has the meaning given to it in the City Code on Takeovers Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Calyon and the lenders and Mergers.
specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder Contractual or other arrangements may demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by The Group does not have any contractual or other arrangements the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it that are essential to the business of the Group as described by under the agreement and any connected finance document, section 417 5 c Companies Act 2006. which amount will become immediately due and payable and, in respect of each letter of credit issued under the agreement, Directors full cash cover will be required immediately, in the event that The biographical details of the Directors of the Company any person or group of persons acting in concert gains at the date of this report are given on pages 80 and 81. control of the Company: Details of Directors service agreements and letters of US$100 million junior secured revolving credit facility appointment are set out on pages 95 and 96.
Details of the agreement between, among others, the Company and certain Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland and in the Groups long-term incentive and share option plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc schemes are set out on pages 99 and 100 in the Directors and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each remuneration report.
lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding Directors indemnities and insurance cover amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under the Company to it under the agreement and any connected which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to finance document, which amount will become immediately the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against claims due and payable, in the event that any person or group of from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties US$115 million finance contract in respect of a senior secured and responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the cost the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company and of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, International Finance Corporation and the lenders specified its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the defence therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs.
demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
the agreement and any connected finance document, which Powers of Directors amount will become immediately due and payable, in the The general powers of the Companys Directors are set out event that any person or group of persons acting in concert in Article 97 of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It gains control of the Company: provides that the business of the Company shall be managed US$250 million secured revolving credit facility agreement by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company between, among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries whether relating to the management of the business of the of the Company, BNP Paribas, Bank of Scotland plc, Calyon, Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations Standard Chartered Bank and The Royal Bank of Scotland imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each limited by the provisions of the Memorandum and Articles lender thereunder may demand repayment of all outstanding of Association of the Company and any directions given by amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of special resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
the Company to it under the agreement and any connected finance document, which amount will become immediately Please note the following specific provisions relevant to due and payable, in the event that any person or group of the exercise of power by the Directors: persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: and Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the holders US$1.55 billion secured irrevocable guarantee facility of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Articles agreement between, among others, the Company and of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of the certain subsidiaries of the Company, Standard Chartered Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities Bank, Calyon, BNP Paribas and The Royal Bank of Scotland convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than plc and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted under each lender thereunder may demand that full cash cover is the Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors provided immediately in respect of outstanding amounts or of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any the buyer guarantee provided thereunder is otherwise repaid equity securities without express authorisation, which may be immediately and repayment of all outstanding amounts owed contained in a companys articles of association or given by its by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event it under the agreement and any connected finance document, 102 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Corporate responsibility Act 2006, the Company may also not allot shares for cash The Group is fully committed to high standards of otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme environmental, health and safety management.
A review, without first making an offer on a pre-emptive basis to existing together with an outline of the Groups involvement in the shareholders, unless this requirement is waived by a special community, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section resolution of the shareholders.
The Company received on pages 68 to 75.
In addition, Tullow publishes annually a authority at the last Annual General Meeting to allot shares separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is available for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum on the Group website: www.
The authority lasts until Supplier payment policy the earlier of the Annual General Meeting of the Company It is Company and Group policy to settle all debts with creditors in 2010 or 30 June 2010: on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of credit Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by agreed with each supplier.
The Company had no trade creditors shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its outstanding at 31 December 2009. own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information Any shares which have been bought back may be held as Having made the requisite enquires, so far as the Directors treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined completion of the purchase.
The Company does not currently by Section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the have shareholder authority to buy back shares: and Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group all steps that ought to have been taken to make themselves outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and the Companys auditors are aware of that information reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Article 98 A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys of the Companys Articles of Association, unless sanctioned auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Annual General Meeting Appointment and replacement of Directors Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be not less than two nor more than 15 Directors.
The appointment proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London EC1A 9HQ The members may by ordinary resolution appoint any on Wednesday 12 May 2010 at 12 noon.
person who is willing to act to be a Director: This Directors Report comprising pages 4 to 103 and the The Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a information referred to therein has been approved by the Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until Board and signed on its behalf by: the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election: Each Director shall retire from office at the third Annual General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at Graham Martin which he was last elected but he may be reappointed General Counsel and Company Secretary by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing: 9 March 2010 The Company may by special resolution remove any Director Registered office: before the expiration of his period of office or may, by ordinary 3rd Floor resolution, remove a Director where special notice has been Building 11 given and the necessary statutory procedures are complied Chiswick Park with: and 566 Chiswick High Road There are a number of other grounds on which a Directors London W4 5YS office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all the Company registered in England and Wales other Directors being at least three in number request his No.
3919249 resignation, where he suffers mental incapacity, compounds with his creditors, is declared bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
Charitable and political donations The Group made charitable, social and community-related donations during the year totalling 1.4 million 2008: 1.0 million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
com 103 Directors Report: Corporate governance Michelle Wilsoncroft, Assistant Accountant London office, UK 9 Financial statements and supplementary information The financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole.
Statement of Directors responsibilities 106 Independent auditors report 107 Group financial statements 108 Accounting policies 111 Notes to Group financial statements 117 Company financial statements and related information 143 Five year financial summary 155 Commercial reserves and contingent resources 156 Licence interests 157 Shareholder information 161 Contact information 162
