Directors Report: Group overview How we are organised We continue to invest in building our team and structuring our organisation so that we can deliver the exceptional growth opportunities that the Group has in its business today.
At Tullow, a strong governance and organisational This framework holds the Board and management framework defines the roles and responsibilities of accountable for the Groups performance by ensuring our Board of Directors and senior management.
It is we critically evaluate the business decisions, based on accountability, transparency and achieving strategies and risks we undertake.
It helps us to the highest standards of ethics and integrity.
It also engage with and respond to our many stakeholders.
plays a leading role in risk management.
This in turn helps to protect and build our reputation and create long-term sustainable growth.
Board Committees Risk management Board of Directors Audit Committee Tullow has an integrated 11 members in total system for the management Six non-executive Directors Nominations Committee of strategic, business and including the Chairman and Remuneration Committee operational risk.
Senior Independent Director The Board of Directors has overall responsibility, with additional resources provided by the Audit Committee.
Executive Directors Each Executive Director has defined responsibility and Chief Executive Officer accountability for specific aspects of risk.
Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Senior Management Committee In each area Executive Directors are supported Exploration Director The Senior Management Committee by members of the senior General Counsel and SMC is responsible for managing management team or Company Secretary Tullows business on a day-to-day managers with key basis and ensuring safe delivery of the functional responsibility.
agreed annual budget and plan and effective risk evaluation, management and mitigation.
This team of senior managers works directly with the Executive Directors keeping them fully informed of business issues and opportunities across Tullow and the industry.
Read more Board of Directors page 80 Board Committees page 86 Corporate responsibility page 68 Governance page 78 Risk management page 62 8 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Ian Springett Paul McDade Aidan Heavey Angus McCoss Graham Martin Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Exploration Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Business Systems Environment, External Affairs Global Exploration Legal Health & Safety EHS Leadership Team Corporate Planning Compliance & Economics Commercial Exploration & Human Resources Appraisal business Finance Engineering Secretariat Exploration new Internal Audit Major projects ventures Investor Relations Operations Group geosciences Risk & Marketing Production & Geophysical Development Supply Chain technology Management Well Engineering Senior Management Committee Pete Dickerson, Head of Corporate Planning & Economics Mike Simpson, Group Commercial Manager Chris Flavell, General Manager Exploration Julian Tedder, General Manager Finance Gordon Headley, Chief Human Resources Officer Brian Williams, Head of Risk & Marketing Martyn Morris, General Manager Production & Development Corporate functions In-country management Graham Brunton, Group EHS Manager Brian Glover, Uganda Rosalind Kainyah, Vice President External Affairs Dai Jones, Ghana Andrew Marks, Chief Information Officer Brian Kay, Angola Joe Mongan, Geophysical Technology Manager Richard Lee, Bangladesh David Mooney, Group Supply Chain Manager Kemal Mohamedou, Mauritania Tim OHanlon, Vice President Africa Peter Owens, Namibia Chris Perry, Head of Investor Relations Kevin Quinn, Dublin Peter Sloan, Group Legal Manager David Roux, Gabon Gert-Jan Smulders, Group Engineering Manager Bill Torr, Cape Town Roger Swaine, Group Projects Manager Franco Uliana, Cte dIvoire Mike Williams, Group Well Engineering Manager Muzaffar Virk, Pakistan Awa Wane, Senegal Nick Woodall-Mason, Tanzania www.
com 9 Directors Report: Group overview
