Continue to broaden, evaluate and drill out Total Shareholder Return TSR high-impact prospects and maximise the value of all producing assets.
A very active E&A programme is under way in 2010 with up to 30 wells planned 99% this year: and th A strong year saw Tullow finish as the 14 best performer in the FTSE 100.
Implement a long-term funding plan with a more appropriate capital structure for the increased scale of our business and the number and range 99 100 of opportunities available to us.
90 Challenging markets and industry backdrop 80 There are some signs that major world economies 70 66 are emerging from recession.
Equity markets have 60 improved but remain volatile.
Commodity markets 50 improved over the course of 2009 and Brent Crude 40 moved from a low of US$39 bbl in February to a high 30 of US$79 bbl in December 2009.
The weakening of 20 the US Dollar was another notable trend for most 10 2 of 2009, with the Sterling US Dollar rate reaching 0 07 09 08 a high of US$1.70 in August 2009.
Our business plans aim to achieve an appropriate return over the long run, even in low price environments but sharp Rebalancing our business movements can lead to short-term volatility in Increased scale and rapid growth requires us to earnings as demonstrated in our 2009 results.
adjust and evolve aspects of our business model.
In 2009, the uncertain economic outlook, coupled It is an inevitable consequence of our success and with weak commodity pricing at the start of the year, it now sees Tullow transition from a singular focus led to delays or postponements in price sensitive and investment in exploration and appraisal to building capital expenditure.
Lower cash flows forced industry up a more appropriate production profile for a Group peers to preserve capital and focus primarily on of our size.
We are rebalancing our business so that development rather than exploration expenditure.
we can continue to fund a very active exploration This improved in the second half as commodity programme with an aligned production output and pricing recovered and most oil-field equipment operating cash flow.
Our goal is to have a business and services costs fell.
Early in 2009, we put in that is capable of spending US$500 million per place a strong financial strategy which delivered annum on exploration and appraisal.
This provides over 3 billion of funding over the course of a year.
the platform for us to continue to grow and create new opportunities.
Initial indications for the industry in 2010 appear positive as demand is expected to rise as the global Achieving our strategic objective economy recovers.
Longer-term oil supply may In 2009, TSR for Tullow was 99% representing a top quintile performance versus our peer group and the struggle to keep up with future demand and a th growing consensus is that demand in developed 14 best performer in the FTSE 100.
In five years to the end of 2009, TSR for Tullow was 802% placing economies has peaked and non-OECD countries will drive future demand.
the Group number one for TSR versus our peer group for that period.
The industry cost picture is more complex.
Highly Our strategic priorities are clear and consistent and specialised equipment leased on long-term contracts, they are aligned with our values, business model and such as deepwater rigs, largely retain their value but risk management.
We have never been in a better the cost of most general equipment and services has position and we look forward with confidence fallen to create a lower cost environment.
current development projects on time and within budget remains a key focus for Tullow.
Well capitalised companies, as we now are, retain financial and operational flexibility, enabling us to maximise value.
Corporate activity is strong and Aidan Heavey limited opportunities to access frontier acreage creates intense competition for these assets.
com 25 Directors Report: Business review
