Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Rest of the World continued Netherlands South Asia Leveraging on the success and experience gained The demand for energy in Asian economies in the Carboniferous play of the UK CMS, Tullow remains strong and this region offers Tullow has built an extensive exploration position within excellent growth potential through exploration, the adjacent Carboniferous province of the Dutch particularly in Pakistan where the Group has a offshore and is now in a strong position to exploit significant non-operated position.
In April 2009, Tullow added to the six operated exploration blocks already held with the Bangladesh award of Block E11.
Tullow and its partners initiated Production from the Bangora field increased from two major regional 3D seismic reprocessing 100 to 120 mmscfd, the maximum capacity of the programmes in 2009.
Over 1,000 sq km of seismic gas processing facility, following a successful on the E and D blocks have been included and results workover and tie-in of the Bangora-3 well in October thus far are very encouraging.
In addition, a Hydrocarbon Dewpoint Control planned for later in 2010. system is being installed at the Bangora Processing Facility which will enhance condensate recovery Portugal from the gas stream and deliver full specification Tullow holds interests in three blocks in the gas to the export pipeline.
The system is due to Alentejo Basin Lavagante, Santola and Gamba.
be commissioned during the first half of 2010.
Interpretation of 3,000 km of proprietary 2D seismic and over 5,000 km of 2D has resulted in a number Elsewhere in Bangladesh, Tullow was awarded of high-risk exploration leads being developed.
offshore Block SS-08-05 as part of the Third Following completion of the agreed work programme Licensing Round.
Contract negotiations are expected and a detailed evaluation of the full subsurface to be completed in early 2010, thereby enabling the dataset in 2009, Tullow plans to assign its interest acquisition of a 2D seismic programme during the in this acreage to other licence partners.
Pakistan As part of a restructuring of the Groups business in Pakistan Tullow reached agreement, during 2009, to dispose of its producing assets and focus on non-operated exploration activities.
In January 2009, a sale and purchase agreement was signed for the Chachar field and the field interest was transferred Bangora field producing at maximum capacity to Pakistan Petroleum Ltd.
In November 2009, a sale and purchase agreement was signed for our interests in the Sara Suri gas fields and 120mmscfd completion of that transaction is subject to Following a successful workover and tie-in carried out during approval from the Government of Pakistan.
2009, production from the Bangora gas field has increased to the maximum capacity of the gas processing facility.
The Mesozoic and Tertiary aged Tethys Basin between Kurdistan and Pakistan forms one of the richest petroleum provinces in the world and provides Tullow with access to significant upside potential.
Existing hydrocarbon infrastructure provides a ready link to a growing regional energy market and creates lucrative opportunities to quickly monetise discoveries.
Shekhan-1, the first exploration well since the restructuring of our Pakistan business, commenced drilling in the Kohat block in November 2009.
The well is designed to test a large thrust anticline and is expected to reach total depth in late-March 2010.
Based on several significant analogous discoveries made in the surrounding areas in recent years, multiple sandstone and limestone reservoir intervals are being targeted.
Elsewhere in Pakistan, seismic operations are planned to recommence in the Kalchas block.
Results Exploration drilling, Pakistan to date enhance the prospectivity of this block with The Shekhan-1 exploration well commenced drilling confirmation that the surface anticline continues into in November 2009. the subsurface forming a valid trap at depth.
52 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts
