Robert Gray Chief Financial Officer, Age 53 Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 1997, John Botts Robert Gray joined UBMs Board as Chief Financial Officer in September became Chairman in December 2007.
He is Senior Advisor of 2009 having previously been at Codere S. A. for five years where he was Allen & Company in London and Chairman of Botts & Company.
Chief Financial Officer and a member of the Executive Committee.
Other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, Before joining Codere, he enjoyed a successful 24-year career in investment Glyndebourne Arts Trust, Tate Foundation.
He is a graduate of Williams.
From 1999 he was Managing Director, Latin American Investment Banking for Deutsche Bank, based in New York.
David Levin Group Chief Executive, Age 48 Prior to his role at Deutsche Bank, he spent almost 20 years in a variety of roles at J. P. Morgan Co. with a particular focus on building and managing David Levin was appointed as Group Chief Executive in 2005, having banking businesses in international markets, notably Latin America.
previously been chief executive of Symbian, a mobile phone software Robert is an MBA graduate of Harvard Business School.
He joined Symbian from Psion plc, the handheld computing company, where he was chief executive from 1 2 3 4.
Jonathan Newcomb Non-Executive Director Age 62 February 1999.
Prior to that, he had various roles with the international business-publishing group Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC, as Jonathan Newcomb was appointed to the Board in 2001.
He is a board Group COO, Group CFO and as President of Institutional Investor member of Journal Communications NYSE and the BNA Corporation, magazine group in New York as well as working in the private equity and is currently the managing director of the New York-based investment group Apax Partners, based in the UK, and with the consultancy firm firm Coady Diemar.
He was chairman and CEO of Simon & Schuster, Bain and Company, mostly in Asia and the USA.
David has an MBA one of the worlds largest book publishers and providers of educational and from Stanford University and an MA from Oxford.
training materials, from 1994 until 2002, having been president and chief operating officer from 1991.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a principal with Leeds Equity Partners, a New York-based private equity firm, and in 2006 and 2007 he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Cambium Learning, an educational services provider.
Previous employment included McGraw Hill where he was responsible for Standard & Poors and Data Resources and Dun & Bradstreet.
He is chairman of UBMs Audit Committee.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Section 2: Governance 39 5 6 7 8 9 1 2 5.
Pradeep Kar Non-Executive Director Age 51 8.
Terry Neill Non-Executive Director Age 64 Appointed to the Board in 2006, Pradeep Kar is the founder, chairman and Terry Neill was appointed to the Board in September 2009.
He is based in managing director of Microland, Indias leading provider of outsourced IT Ireland, where UBM has its corporate headquarters.
He is a non-executive infrastructure management services.
Pradeep is the president of The Indus director of CRH plc, the international building materials group also Entrepreneurs TiE, Bangalore Chapter and Founder of the Bangalore headquartered in Ireland, and of Bank of Ireland Group.
He is a Governor Chapter of the Young Presidents Organization.
Pradeeps leadership acumen of London Business School, where he is chair of the Finance committee.
has been recognised with numerous accolades, notable among these are the He held a range of senior roles in Accenture variously based in Dublin, India Young Business Achiever Award, Stars of Asia by Newsweek and Chicago and London.
He was the worldwide Managing Partner of Stars of India by Business India.
He sits on the Advisory Board of Leaders Andersen Accentures Change Management Practice and a senior Quest, an international social enterprise based in London.
Pradeep holds a partner in Accenture until August 2001, when he was part of the team degree in mechanical engineering and a post-graduate degree in management.
that successfully developed and executed the strategy for transforming Accenture into a public company.
T erry was Chairman of Accenture 2 6.
Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director Age 48 Andersen Consultings board and served on four terms as Chairman of Andersen Worldwide.
He is a member of the board of Trinity Foundation Appointed to the Board in 2006, Karen Thomson is an experienced and chair of the external advisory board for the humanities in Trinity executive, with a particular focus on the transformational power of the College Dublin.
She launched AOL in the UK in 1995 and served as CEO of AOL UK and President of AOL Europe, developing both the telecoms 9.
Greg Lock Non-Executive Director, Age 62 and advertising lines of business.
As a Director of Vodafone UK she was responsible for developing Vodafone UKs Internet operations and Greg Lock was appointed to the Board in February 2010.
Greg is Chairman fixed line telecoms business.
Since 2009 she has been an active investor of Computacenter plc, the IT services business, and Chairman of Kofax Plc, in early stage Internet-focused businesses such as MT Mobility Ltd the leading provider of document-driven business process automation a company supplying mobility products and services to customers with solutions.
He has more than 38 years experience in the software and mobility problems.
She holds an MA hons in Philosophy from Aberdeen computer services industry, including four years as Chairman of technology University and an MBA from Middlesex University.
She has also been company SurfControl Plc.
He is also a non-executive director of technology awarded an honorary doctorate from Middlesex University.
companies Liberata and Target Group.
Greg spent 30 years at IBM in a variety of senior roles including General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial 1 3 7.
Alan Gillespie Non-Executive Director Age 59 sector from 1998 to 2000, a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Council and Governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
Greg has an Alan Gillespie CBE was appointed to the Board in April 2008.
He is MA in Natural Sciences from Churchill College, Cambridge.
During his chairman of the Economic and Social Research Council ESRC and also career at IBM he lived and worked in the United States, France and Germany.
the chairman of the International Finance Facility for Immunization IFFIm, an intergovernmental organisation established to fund vaccination programmes for children in many of the worlds poorest countries.
He has previously held posts in both the public and private sectors, including as 1 Member of the Remuneration Committee chairman of Ulster Bank Group, partner at Goldman Sachs & Co, chief 2 Member of the Audit Committee executive of the Commonwealth Development Corporation, and chairman 3 Member of the Nomination Committee of the Northern Ireland Industrial Development Board.
He is chairman of UBMs Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent Director.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2009
