53 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009. Business review During 2009 the Groups principal activities were in the areas of Events: Data, Services and Online: Print Magazines: and Targeting, Distribution and Monitoring.
The review of the Groups business and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group comprises the sections entitled Strategy and Performance, Segmental Commentary and Risks and Uncertainties which form part of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 4 to 31.
Results for the year and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 56.
The balance to be transferred to reserves is 81.8m.
The directors have announced a second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend of 18.2p per share for the year ended 31 December 2009 to be paid on 20 May 2010 to those shareholders on the register on 16 April 2010.
An interim dividend of 6.0p per share was paid on 15 October 2009, making a total for the year of 24.2p 2008: 23.8p.
Pursuant to the Dividend Access Plan put in place by the Company as part of the Scheme, the second interim dividend will be paid by United Business Media GP No.
2 Limited, a UK subsidiary of UBML to those members who have elected or who are deemed to have elected to be paid dividends from a UK source in accordance with the rules of the Dividend Access Plan.
Directors and their interests Biographical details of the directors in office as at 5 March 2010 are set out on pages 38 and 39.
The following directors held office during the year: John Botts, David Levin, Alan Gillespie, Robert Gray appointed 14 September 2009, Pradeep Kar, Terry Neill appointed 24 September 2009, Jonathan Newcomb, Karen Thomson, Nigel Wilson resigned 31 August 2009.
Greg Lock was appointed as a non-executive director on 22 February 2010.
John Botts, Pradeep Kar and Karen Thomson will retire from the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible to do so, will stand for re-election.
Robert Gray, Terry Neill and Greg Lock, having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, will be proposed for election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Pradeep Kar, Karen Thomson, Terry Neill and Greg Lock do not have service contracts: all are considered by the Company to be independent.
John Botts and Robert Gray each has a service contract which is subject to 12 months notice on either side.
The interests of the directors in office at 5 March 2010 in the shares of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 47.
No director had a material interest in any contract other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 25 on page 105.
During the year the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2009, the Company held valid authorities from shareholders to purchase up to 24,408,359 ordinary shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2010.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
E-communications Shareholders have previously passed a resolution to enable the Company to send documents or information to members by making them available on the website or by electronic means.
If any shareholder who has received a printed copy of this Annual Report would prefer to receive future communications by electronic means, they may elect to do so by contacting the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Jersey Limited contact details can be found in the Shareholder information section at the back of this report or by registering at www.
54 Report of the directors continued Statement of directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with any generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements of the Company are required by law to give a true and fair view of, or be presented fairly in all material respects so as to show, the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors should: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable accounting principles have been followed in their preparation, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 Each of the directors at the date of this report, whose names and functions are listed on pages 38 to 39 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a the Group financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC interpretations, and the Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial shareholdings As at 5 March 2010 the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in voting rights in its ordinary share capital in accordance with chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding FIL Limited 17.02.10 25,595,492 10.48% Indirect interest Aviva plc 16.11.09 18,379,718 7.53% Indirect interest Lloyds Banking Group plc 24.11.09 14,639,444 6.00% Indirect interest Artemis Investment Management Ltd 08.02.10 14,306,748 5.86% Direct interest Black Rock, Inc 26.03.09 12,412,276 5.09% Indirect interest Legal & General Group plc 15.10.09 9,654,061 3.95% Direct interest Ignis Investment Services Ltd 06.02.09 7,315,003 3.00% Indirect interest Creditor payment policy In view of the diversity of its businesses the Group does not offer or operate a uniform timetable for payment of suppliers.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing with its own suppliers the terms and conditions on which it will transact business with them, including payment terms.
The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with these agreed terms.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Donations In 2009 the Group donated 564,200 to charitable organisations 2008: 503,023.
The Group made no political donations during 2009 2008: nil.
55 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 13 May 2010.
The notice of meeting and a description of the business to be transacted is contained in the accompanying document.
It is also available on the Companys website at www.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and on their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Takeover directive The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since they were last appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall retire from office but are eligible for re-appointment.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company is party to a number of banking arrangements which upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank upon the provision of 28 days notice.
Other information Other information relevant to and forming part of the Directors Report is to be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Business Review Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance pages 4 to 17 Segmental Commentary pages 18 to 21 Risks and Uncertainties pages 28 to 31 Corporate Responsibility Operating and Financial Review pages 32 to 37 Corporate Governance Statement pages 48 to 51 Treasury Policy Operating and Financial Review pages 26 to 27 The Directors Report of United Business Media Limited for the year ended 31 December 2009 comprises pages 53 to 55 of this Annual Report and the other sections listed above, which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
By order of the Board Anne Siddell Company Secretary 5 March 2010 Registered office: Whiteley Chambers Don Street St. Helier Jersey JE4 9WG
