Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Positioning in growing market sectors to provide resilience of performance 35.1m $708bn investing for growth headroom to grow Ultra-funded research and development the value of the Presidents request for was 5.4% of revenue the FY11 US defense budget 2008: 33.1m Ultra has consistently positioned and then repositioned itself in high growth sectors within its main defence, security, transport and energy markets.
The Group has demonstrated a long track record of identifying future high growth market sectors and then investing to create differentiated positions in them.
Ultras ever broadening range of specialist market positions drives resilience into the Groups performance.
Defence and security The level of international tension is not reducing and this results in Additionally, all modern armed forces rely on many forms of continuing expenditure worldwide on defence and security.
In Ultras sophisticated electronic systems to achieve smart capability for main markets, defence priorities are under review, as reected in the precision targeting, information superiority as well as interoperability recent Quadrennial Defense Review QDR in the US and the between coalition forces.
As a result, an increasing proportion of forthcoming UK Strategic Defence Review.
These highlight the defence and security budgets is being spent on electronics.
significant competing pressures for funds that have caused recent The Groups broad portfolio of specialist capabilities that contribute contract delays.
Nevertheless in the US the Presidents budget to smart electronic solutions positions it well to secure further work requests for the near to medium term are for the core defence in the medium term to satisfy future operational requirements.
The budget to grow at about 3% per annum with substantial additional Groups independence allows it to work with all the major prime funds for continuing operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The QDR contractors on new platforms as well as upgrade programmes.
reprioritises funds to improving information superiority, command Overall, budgets addressable by Ultra will remain sufciently large to and control, unmanned sensors and systems, communications and give the Group considerable headroom for further growth.
cyber warfare, with the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter aircraft programme Elsewhere, in areas where Ultra has recently achieved market and a continuing submarine-based nuclear deterrent also indicated presence, such as Turkey, Australia and the Middle East, defence as high priorities.
These are all areas where Ultra has strong market spending continues to rise in real terms.
In the UK it is likely that defence budgets will be squeezed.
As a consequence fewer new platforms will be built so the military capability of existing platforms will have to be upgraded.
This typically drives demand for advanced electronic solutions.
10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review $150,000 44 incremental sales growing market the value of Ultra equipment on each 44 new commercial nuclear power Boeing 787 aircraft stations are planned to be built in China Transport Energy In the transport sector, the fundamental driver of long-term Around the world the strategic need to have secure access to an growth is the increase in business and leisure travel, especially in increasing amount of energy from independent sources is driving those areas of the world with rapidly rising populations that have a higher level of investment in civil nuclear power generation.
This drives demand for civil aircraft, This investment is in extending the life of existing plant as well as infrastructure investment in airports and in mass passenger transit building new reactors.
Ultra has niche capabilities in the supply systems all areas where Ultra has a strong capability.
In the short of high integrity control systems and the associated specialist term there may be cuts in production rates at both Boeing and sensors and is therefore well placed to benefit as the market Airbus despite their long order books though the profit impact on opportunity develops.
Ultra of these reductions will not be material.
Sales of equipment for the Boeing 787, when it enters airline service, will be additive to the Groups performance.
The long-term worldwide increase in air travel drives investment in infrastructure including airport IT systems.
The Group continues to win new business around the world, reecting the global nature of this market sector.
Ground transport systems also require continuing investment in regions of high population density, a trend from which Ultra benets.
strategies for growth driving resilience Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Chief Executives strategic review
