Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Key Performance Indicators The indicators shown below have been identified by the Directors as giving the best overall indication of the Groups long-term success in improving its FTSE ranking by outperforming the market.
KPI 1 KPI 2 KPI 3 Revenue growth profit growth Order book visibility Growth in total Group revenue Growth in Group headline profit Order cover for next financial year Denition before tax compared to the as percentage of market consensus compared to the prior year.
revenue forecast for the year.
2009 result 26% 24% 62% 2008 result 25% 18% 65% 2007 result 10% 11% 60% Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the rate at The Board uses operating cash conversion as a simple yet which the Groups business activity is expanding.
reliable measure of cash generation, which represents the major element of the Groups short-term incentive bonus scheme.
Order book visibility, based upon analysts consensus forecast Whilst free cash will continue to fund Ultras expansion by revenue for the year to come, gives the Board confidence as to acquisition, it is important to ensure that the balance sheet the achievement of future growth.
remains sufficiently strong and that the cost of carrying A satisfactory headline profit growth trend confirms that additional debt does not become too high.
additional revenue is being gained without profit margins being Interest cover is a reliable indicator of balance sheet strength.
It also indicates that the additional contribution to profits from new acquisitions is greater than the extra Finally, it remains the overriding objective of the Board to financing costs associated with those acquisitions.
provide shareholders with a long-term return on their investment in Ultra that exceeds that of other potential equity A key objective of the Board is to increase headline earnings investments with a similar risk profile.
Total shareholder per share at a faster rate than other similar quoted companies return is a suitable measure, as compared to the overall in the UK.
If successful this should ensure that investors will population of FTSE 250 companies.
continue to hold Ultras shares, rather than those of its peers.
The Directors aim to manage the Group so that it continues to generate high levels of cash, which can then be reinvested in the business in the form of acquisitions.
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Key Performance Indicators KPI 4 KPI 5 KPI 6 KPI 7 Growth in earnings Cash conversion Interest cover Relative per share over a three shareholder return year period Annual growth in headline Net cash from operating activities, The ratio of profit from Annual total shareholder return earnings per share calculated less net purchases of property, operations to finance costs capital growth plus dividends paid, over a rolling three year period.
plant and equipment, less associated with bank borrowings.
assuming dividends reinvested expenditure on product over a rolling five year period development and LTIP purchases, compared to the FTSE 250 index.
expressed as a percentage of profit from operations.
18% 115% 20times 8% per annum 16% 102% 19times 14% per annum 14% 83% 29times 4% per annum before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition, fair value movements on derivatives, profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment net of property-related provisions and loss on closing out foreign currency hedging contracts before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment net of property-related provisions strategies for growth driving resilience Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Chief Executives strategic review
