Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Ultras objective headline earnings per share 20% growth 96.4p 2008: 80.1p Douglas Caster, Chief Executive The Boards prime objective continues to be to outperform the international, world-class partners to access best of breed market in terms of annual increases in shareholder value by technology.
The Group has a reputation for successful delivering above average increases in earnings and by programme execution, culminating in innovative solutions communicating effectively with shareholders and the financial utilising differentiated technologies delivered on-time to its community generally.
An anticipated outcome of meeting this customers.
Ultras spread of businesses around the world enables objective is that Ultras ranking in the FTSE index on the London it to address specific national requirements where a sovereign Stock Exchange should improve.
operational capability must be maintained.
Ultra seeks to extend its long track record of delivering above Corporate strategy average shareholder returns.
The Groups success in this regard Ultras success is underpinned by its investment strategy.
The Group since flotation in 1996 is shown in graph on the previous page.
has invested to position itself in growing sectors in its various main In order to outperform the market Ultra must add shareholder markets.
Ultra has demonstrated its expertise in identifying value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than other investment opportunities that deliver growth, either within existing companies.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high businesses or by acquiring businesses which complement and growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The broaden the Groups portfolio of products and services.
This includes four main strategies for growth are: broadening the geographic reach of the Group.
This investment also includes both the development of systems on programmes that have 1 Increase the Groups portfolio of specialist capability areas been won and activities that support the Groups long-term 2 Augment the number of long-term platforms and programmes on positioning for contracts to be won in the future.
which Ultras specialist capabilities are specified To ensure that this investment strategy remains affordable, Ultra 3 Broaden the Groups customer base focuses on delivering a high quality of earnings from its operations.
4 Widen Ultras geographic footprint Evidence of this quality is the consistently strong cash generation that the Group has achieved.
Over the last five years, the average Pages 8 and 9 expand on these growth strategies.
i conversion of headline operating profit to operating cash ow has been 102%.
Successful pursuit of these growth strategies requires the successful execution of both competitive and corporate strategies.
The first The cash generated from operations is then used to fund element, the competitive strategies, are implemented by each of acquisitions Ultra seeks to maintain a broad balance over the Ultras businesses and focus on winning new business in the niche medium term between organic and acquisition growth.
To date, market sectors in which the Group has positioned itself.
The corporate Ultras acquisitions have mainly been funded by free cash flow strategy adds value by focusing on Ultras investments in acquisitions and the level of net debt remains low.
It is foreseen that the and in significant internally-funded development programmes.
acquisition strategy that has served Ultra well to date will be continued.
The major part of the Groups banking facilities Competitive strategy having now been renegotiated, it is intended that the rate of The resilience of Ultras financial performance is derived from acquisitions in 2010 will be higher than that seen in 2009. the Groups broad mix of specialist activities in its twenty four businesses, within which the Group has over 130 distinct market or technology niches.
The diversity of specialist capabilities enables Ultra to contribute to a large number of defence, security, transport and energy platforms and programmes.
Ultra has world-leading positions in many of its specialities and, as an independent, non-threatening partner, is able to support all of the main prime contractors with its capabilities and solutions.
Through such positioning, Ultras systems, equipment or services Ultra has world leading positions in many are often mission-critical to the successful operation of the platform to which they contribute.
In turn, this mission-criticality of its specialities and, as an independent, secures Ultras positions for the long term which underpins the superior financial performance of the Group.
Ultras ability to non-threatening partner, is able to combine its specialist capabilities enables it to win contracts as a support all of the main prime contractors sub-systems integrator for complex systems, often involving a number of different Group businesses.
Ultra often teams with with its capabilities and solutions.
strategies for growth driving resilience see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Chief Executives strategic review
