More than 300 platforms and programme Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review Strategies for growth In order to outperform the market, and thereby improve the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, Ultra must add shareholder value and increase its market capitalisation more rapidly than other companies.
This is facilitated if an above average rate of revenue growth is achieved.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategies for growth are: #1 #2 Increase the Groups portfolio of Augment the number of long-term specialist capability areas platforms and programmes on Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with capabilities and which Ultras specialist capabilities systems using the Groups electronic and software solutions for niche markets in defence, security, transport and energy.
Within are specified these market sectors Ultra focuses on developing specialist Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of capabilities that provide differentiated solutions to customers international platforms and programmes.
These are shown as requirements.
Across Ultras businesses there are more than 130 of the rows in the matrix on the graphic.
This breadth of platform these specialist capability areas.
These are shown as the columns in and programme coverage creates a flywheel effect that drives the matrix shown in the graphic.
Ultras performance year after year, despite market fluctuations.
Ultra is positioned on more than 300 such platforms and programmes of which none contributes more than 5% of Ultras revenue in any year.
More than 130 market niches WIN-T US Army USN anti-submarine warfare systems MRC142 U USMC F A-18 E F Eurofighter UAE Systems Ap pproa ach to Training British Army base e p protection see our strategies in action on pages 16 to 21 i 0 08 8 U Ullt tr ra a E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic cs s H Ho olld diin ng gs s p pllc c Line of sight radios Sonobuoys Network access equipment HiPPAG compressors Ice protection Landing gear control Cockpit equipment Training & consultancy Surveillance systems Magneto inductive Nuclear control systems Sonobuoy telemetry receivers Hand controls Acoustic countermeasures Communication systems Voice projection units Trackside electrical power Targeting pods Bow sonar systems Data links Gunshot detection systems Cryptographic equipment Data recordg & analysis eqt Video communication systems Electronic warfare eqt Ships combat systems Stabilised sensor platforms Geo data & mapping systems Crisis information mgt systems Secure network systems Submarine comms systems Active noise & vibration Structural integrity monitoring Aircraft system test equipment Electrical power mgt systems Situational awareness systems Long range acoustic hailing Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chief Executives strategic review 62% 86% opening rm order cover compared increase in Ultras sales to the to analysts consensus forecast for Middle East & Asia Pacic 2010 revenue 68.9m 2008: 37.0m #3 #4 Broaden the Groups customer base Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of specialist Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two largest capabilities to a broad range of customers around the world.
The addressable defence budgets in the world.
The US spends more graphic shows the major customers for the Groups 2009 revenue.
on defence each year than the rest of the coalition nations added together.
The majority of Ultras acquisitions have been in North Within the top three customers, DoD, MoD and BAE Systems, America and the point has now been reached where the Group Ultra actually supplies to a wide range of different project ofces, has a transatlantic capability and derives more of its revenue from integrated project teams and platform teams.
Ultra therefore deals the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
with a larger number of different customers than the graphic might first suggest.
As depicted on the pie chart, revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are capable of expansion as a proportion of Ultras portfolio.
The acquisitions of Dascam in Abu Dhabi and Avalon Systems in Australia indicate Ultras intent in this regard.
Revenue by region 35% 4 1 3 30% 25% 20% 15% 2 10% 1 United Kingdom 26% 5% 2 North America 54% 3 Middle East & Asia Pacic 11% 0% 4 Mainland Europe 9% strategies for growth driving resilience U Ullt tr ra a E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic cs s H Ho olld diin ng gs s p pllc c 0 09 9 DoD MoD BAE SYSTEMS LOCKHEED MARTIN RAYTHEON ROLLS-ROYCE EADS THALES L3 UAE ARMED FORCES GE UTC ACMA GmBH KONGSBERG UAE CNIA Chief Executives strategic review
