Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2009 The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and independent auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Details in relation to health and safety, the environment, business ethics, employment practice and employee consultation and charitable donations are included in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 27 to 31.
The Corporate Governance statement on pages 40 to 45 forms part of this report.
Principal activity Ultra Electronics Holdings plc is the Group holding Company and the Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings are the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems for the international defence, security, transport and energy markets.
Business review The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of that financial year together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that satisfies these requirements can be found in the following sections: Ultras performance in 2009 on pages 14 to 24 and Management of risks and uncertainties and corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 31.
Results and dividends Group results and dividends are as follows: 2009 000 Balance on retained earnings, beginning of year 83,594 Total comprehensive income for the year 67,626 Dividends: 2008 final paid of 18.0p per share 12,226 2009 interim paid of 9.6p per share 6,523 Equity-settled employee share schemes 1,260 Balance on retained earnings, end of year 133,731 The final 2009 dividend of 21.6p per share is proposed to be paid on 4 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at 9 April 2010.
The interim dividend was paid on 23 September 2009, making a total of 27.6p 2008: 22.5p per share paid in the year.
Future developments A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Chief Executives Strategic review on pages 5 to 13.
Research and development The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to expand the Groups range of proprietary products.
During the year a total of 111.5 million 2008: 115.8 million was spent on engineering development of which 77.0 million 2008: 83.3 million was funded by customers and 34.5 million 2008: 32.5 million by the Group.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served throughout the year and to the date of signing these financial statements, and their interests in the shares and share options of the Company at 26 February 2010 are listed on page 52.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
36 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 26 February 2010, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company: Percentage of ordinary Number of 5p Nature of holding share capital ordinary shares BlackRock Inc Indirect 7.2 4,928,126 Schroders plc Indirect 6.6 4,501,053 F&C Asset Management Indirect 5.8 3,971,335 Prudential plc Group of Companies Direct 5.2 3,538,294 Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct and indirect 4.9 3,354,657 Ignis Investment Services Indirect 4.1 2,831,217 Charitable and political contributions The Group contributed 60,000 2008: 66,000 to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in either year.
Supplier payment policy Individual operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
Trade payable days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 63 days 2008: 61 days, based on the ratio of Group trade payables at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
The Company had no trade payables at either year end.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 25.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of employee share schemes are also set out in note 25.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Main Board Terms of Reference, copies of which are available on request, and in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 40.
Post balance sheet events On 5 February 2010 the Group renewed its 120m banking facility which is provided by a small syndicate of banks led by the Royal Bank of Scotland.
This renewed facility provides revolving credit over a three and a half year period and is denominated in Sterling, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Euros or US dollars and is used for balance sheet and operational needs.
The facility was provided in equal proportions by the Royal Bank of Scotland, Bank of America, Barclays, Lloyds TSB and Santander.
This facility is in addition to the Groups existing 80m Revolving Credit Facility and a 10m overdraft facility for funding short-term working capital requirements.
Annual General Meeting Explanation of special business resolutions is given below: Resolution 9 This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,139,888 representing one third of the issued share capital of the Company.
In addition to this, the Company has followed the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers and requested authority to allot further shares up to an additional nominal amount of 1,139,888.
This additional allotment of shares would only be applied to rights issues which are fully pre-emptive subject to certain customary exceptions.
If the Company relied on this additional authority in connection with a rights issue, the entire Board of Directors of the Company would stand for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 37 Corporate governance Directors report continued Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 10 This resolution authorises the Directors in certain circumstances to allot equity securities for cash other than in accordance with the statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
The relevant circumstances are either where the allotment takes place in connection with a rights issue or the allotment is limited to a maximum nominal amount representing approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 26 February 2010, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice.
The resolution complies with the latest issued guidelines of the Association of British Insurers, and is similar to authorities given previously.
This authority, and that requested in Resolution 9, expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authorities sought by these resolutions except for employee share schemes.
Resolution 11 This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,419,664 of the Companys shares, representing 5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority expires on the earlier of 18 months from the date of passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the Company the Directors would take account of the Companys business and any impact on earnings per share and net tangible assets per share.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution.
The minimum price that can be paid for an ordinary share is 5p being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
The maximum price that can be paid is 5% over the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share, derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the five business days immediately before the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased.
As at 26 February 2010, being the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of AGM, there were outstanding options under the Companys discretionary share incentive plans and employee share savings schemes in respect of 1,435,353 ordinary shares of the Company, representing approximately 2.10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in full, such options would represent 2.21% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Resolution 12 This resolution authorises a reduction in the minimum notice period for general meetings, other than annual general meetings.
Whilst the Companys Articles of Association already provide for a minimum notice period of 14 days for general meetings, the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the EU Shareholder Rights Directive requires that the Company requests shareholders to authorise this minimum notice period at every annual general meeting.
Resolution 13 This resolution authorises the adoption of new Articles of Association.
As a result of the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and certain changes to company law arising from the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, the Company is proposing to amend its articles of association.
The principal differences between the current Articles of Association the Current Articles and the new Articles of Association the New Articles are as follows: 1.
THE COMPANYS OBJECTS AND PROVISIONS TRANSFERRED FROM THE MEMORANDUM OF ASSOCIATION Prior to the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2009, the provisions regulating the operations of a company were set out in that companys memorandum and articles of association.
A companys memorandum contained, among other things, an objects clause which set out the scope of the activities the company was authorised to undertake.
The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum, such that its sole function is now as a historical record of the names of subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the company upon its formation.
As of 1 October 2009, for all existing companies the objects clause and certain other provisions of that companys memorandum of association are now deemed to be contained in the companys articles of association.
Accordingly, certain of these provisions that are deemed to be contained in a companys articles of association including the objects clause can now be amended or removed by special resolution.
The Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, were treated as forming part of the Companys articles of association with effect from 1 October 2009.
Resolution 13 confirms the removal of these provisions for the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys memorandum of association regarding limited liability, the New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the limited liability of shareholders.
38 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report continued Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 13 continued 2.
AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL AND UNISSUED SHARES The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital.
Resolution 13 proposes the removal of this limit and the New Articles reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes, as is the case under the Current Articles.
SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS DIRECTIVE The EU Shareholder Rights Directive, which was implemented in the UK in August 2009, made certain amendments to existing company law, which are reflected in the New Articles.
The principal changes are: a General meetings adjourned for lack of quorum must now be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting: b Shareholders have a right to ask questions at general meetings of the Company and, subject to certain restrictions, the Company is obliged to answer such questions: c Shareholders now have certain additional rights to require the Company to circulate information and or documents at annual general meetings, and the Company must publish certain information on its website: and d It is no longer possible for the Company to hold general meetings on short notice, except where authorised to do so by a resolution of shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
4 SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION OF SHARE TRANSFERS The Current Articles permit the directors to suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power in the Current Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been removed in the New Articles.
5 REMOVAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS OR WHICH DUPLICATE STATUTORY PROVISIONS Certain provisions of the Current Articles in particular, provisions relating to directors conflicts of interest were expressed to apply only before 1 October 2008.
These provisions are therefore obsolete and have been removed in the New Articles.
Further, provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main to be removed in the New Articles.
This is in line with the approach advocated by the Government that statutory provisions should not be duplicated in a companys constitution.
Auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1 So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2 The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of The Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board, D. Garbett-Edwards, Company Secretary 26 February 2010 Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA Registered Number: 02830397 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 39 Corporate governance
