Strategy With confidence in our ability to grow we launched a renewed, bold vision for the company to double our size while improving our environmental footprint.
With our portfolio of brands, presence in emerging markets and long-standing commitment to shared value creation, we believe your company is well placed to deliver on this ambition.
Where we will win Growth priorities Our ambition is to win share and grow volume profitably across our categories and countries and we believe we have the tools in place to do so.
We have a portfolio fit for growth, with strong brands and many leading category positions.
Geographically, our outstanding presence in the emerging markets leaves us well positioned to win where much of the future growth will be.
Yet, we are also determined to grow in the developed world, which represents around half of our business and where the bulk of the worlds wealth will remain for many years to come.
How we will win Winning with brands and innovation Brands and innovation are at the heart of our business model.
We aim to offer a broad portfolio that appeals to consumers with different needs and budgets.
Unilever brands must also offer product quality that is recognised as superior by our consumers and supported by excellent marketing.
Meanwhile, our innovation programme is focused on being bigger, better, faster.
This means leveraging technology to create bigger, better innovation platforms that are then rolled out faster to multiple markets.
More on p8 Winning in the market place The biggest opportunity for Unilever and our customers lies in growing the size of our categories, which we will strive to achieve through innovation and market development.
We will further enhance and broaden our relationship with customers working together on areas of mutual benefit such as consumer research, shopper behaviour and merchandising.
To sustain winning customer relationships and to enable growth, we will also need to be consistently brilliant at customer service and in-store execution.
More on p10 Winning through continuous improvement We will aim to reinforce our continuous improvement philosophy by further developing a customer and consumer-led, agile value chain.
Our focus will be in three areas.
We will prioritise speed and flexibility in the supply chain to deliver growth.
Secondly we will leverage our global network capabilities and scale more aggressively.
Finally we will work to get a better return on our advertising and promotional expenditure one of our most significant areas of cost.
More on p12 Winning with people It is vital that we have the talent and organisation in place to match our growth ambition.
Across the business, we are therefore looking ahead at what we need to achieve, and aim to equip ourselves with the necessary people, skills and capabilities to get there.
We also know that engagement and a culture based on living our values are essential for keeping the best people.
We believe our operating framework allows us to balance scale and global expertise to develop successful products with the local consumer intimacy needed to market and sell them.
More on p14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7
