Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks The following discussion about outlook and risk management be aiming to regain market share in many of our key markets and activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk categories and will enhance their activity plans accordingly.
The actual results could differ materially from expect heightened levels of competitive challenge to our many those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside leadership positions based on innovation and wide-ranging brand back cover.
We are well prepared for such challenges.
Outlook Faced with these challenges we will continue to focus on our key Market conditions for our business were particularly challenging in strategic priorities for 2010 of driving volume growth whilst 2009 and we do not expect this to change signicantly in 2010. providing a steady improvement in operating margin before RDIs Economic pressures are likely to weigh heavily on consumer and strong cash ow.
We believe that our outstanding and longspending.
This is especially the case in some of our developed established presence in D&E markets is a key competitive strength markets where we expect unemployment to remain relatively high that offers us opportunities for future growth.
In these markets, and disposable incomes to be adversely impacted by the per capita levels of consumption are much lower than in combination of higher taxes and rising interest rates as scal developed markets, and demographic trends suggest that over the stimulus packages start to be unwound.
Under these conditions next ten years many millions of consumers may be able to afford consumer confidence is not expected to rise signicantly in the our products.
At the same time we are determined to grow also in year ahead and the search for value in the shopping basket will the developed world, which still represents around half of our continue.
Against this background we expect continued deationary Principal risk factors pressure, exacerbated in the early part of the year by the Risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from continuing impact of lower commodity costs.
However we those described in forward-looking statements made within this anticipate commodity cost ination to return around the middle of document, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be the year, albeit at more modest levels than in recent years, and detrimental to our profitability or reputation.
The risks that we that this will put limited upward pressure on prices in the second regard as the most relevant to our business are identied below.
We have also commented on certain mitigating actions that we believe help us manage such risks: however, we may not be The competitive environment for our business is likely to intensify successful in deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
Our key competitors, both global and local, will Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Economic Decline in business during an economic downturn Avoiding customer and supplier default Unilevers business is dependent on continuing consumer demand The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help for our brands.
Reduced consumer wealth driven by adverse to mitigate local economic risks.
We carefully monitor economic economic conditions may result in our consumers becoming indicators and regularly model the impact of different economic unwilling or unable to purchase our products, which could scenarios.
We monitor consumer behaviour through regular market adversely affect our cash ow, turnover, profits and profit margins.
research and adopt a exible business model which allows us to For example, in 2008 the economic downturn adversely impacted adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to develop new offerings our business by reducing the demand for some of our products.
In that suit consumers and customers changing needs during addition we have a large number of global brands, some of which economic downturns.
We regularly update our forecast of business have a significant carrying value as intangible assets: adverse results and cash ows and, where necessary, rebalance investment economic conditions may reduce the value of those brands which priorities.
We undertake impairment testing reviews in accordance could require us to impair their balance sheet value.
with the relevant accounting standards.
During economic downturns access to credit could be constrained: We regularly monitor and review the health of our customers and this happened in 2008 and 2009.
This could impact the viability of suppliers and implement credit limits and supply substitution our suppliers and customers and could temporarily inhibit the ow arrangements.
These reviews are undertaken more frequently of day-to-day cash transactions with suppliers and customers via during economic downturns.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries within a region, or may extend globally.
The impact on our overall portfolio will depend on the severity of the economic slowdown, the mix of countries affected and any government response to reduce the impact such as scal stimulus, changes to taxation and measures to minimise unemployment.
30 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Markets Managing the business across globally competitive markets Volatility of emerging markets Building strategic alliances and partnerships Unilever operates globally in competitive markets where the Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which activities of other multinational companies, local and regional we identify as attractive, i. e. where we have or can build companies and customers which have a significant private label competitive advantage and where we can consistently grow sales business may adversely affect our market shares, cash ow, and margins.
Many years of exposure to D&E markets has given us turnover, profits and or profit margins.
the ability to be able to operate and develop our business successfully during periods of economic, political or social change.
49% of Unilevers turnover in 2009 came from D&E markets including Brazil, India, Indonesia, Turkey, South Africa, China, We seek in-ll acquisitions to support our category and geographic Mexico and Russia.
These markets are typically more volatile than ambitions and, through Unilever Corporate Ventures, invest in developed markets, so we are continually exposed to changing potential future businesses, new technologies and different economic, political and social developments outside our control, business models.
any of which could adversely affect our business.
Failure to We identify strategic partnerships with specialists that enable us to understand and respond effectively to local market developments leverage external expertise to more efficiently and cost-effectively could put at risk our cash ow, turnover, profit and or develop and manage our business.
Brand Design, development and roll-out of consumer customer relevant products and services Unilevers vision is to help people feel good, look good and get We have processes to monitor external market trends and collate more out of life with brands and services that are good for them consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop longand good for others.
This is achieved by designing and delivering term category and brand strategies.
Our established innovation superior branded products services at relevant price points to management process uses comprehensive marketing tools and consumers across the globe.
Failure to provide sufficient funding to techniques to convert category strategies into a series of projects, develop new products, lack of technical capability in the R&D building on internally developed know-how and expertise.
It further function, lack of prioritisation of projects and or failure by operating identies, prioritises and allocates resources and develops relevant management to successfully and quickly roll out the products may brand communications.
We have well-established procedures to adversely impact our cash ow, turnover, profit and or profit plan and execute roll-out of products to our customers.
margins and may impact our reputation.
Customer Building long-term, mutually beneficial relationships with customers Customer consolidation and growth of discount sector Maintaining successful relationships with our customers is key to We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad ensuring our brands are successfully presented to our consumers spectrum of channels ranging from centrally managed, and are available for purchase at all times.
Any breakdown in the multinational customers, to discount chains and to the traditional relationships with customers could reduce the availability to our trade via distributors in many developing countries.
We develop consumers of existing products and new product launches and joint business plans with all our key customers, including detailed therefore impact our cashow, turnover, profits and or profit investment plans and customer service objectives, and regularly margins.
The retail industry continues to consolidate in many of our markets.
Further consolidation and the continuing growth of discounters could increase the competitive retail environment by increasing customers purchasing power, increasing the demand for competitive promotions and price discounts, increase cross-border sourcing to take advantage of pricing arbitrage and thus adversely impact our cash ow, turnover, profits and or profit margins.
Increased competition between retailers could place pressure on retailer margins and increase the counterparty risk to Unilever.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Financial Treasury Funding the ongoing operation of the business Counterparty default in a financial institution Managing currency and interest rate differences and movements efficiently meeting our pension fund and tax obligations As a global organisation Unilevers asset values, earnings and cash A key target for the Group is to manage our financial affairs so as ows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies, interest rates, to maintain our A1 A credit rating, which gives us continued tax jurisdictions and differing taxes.
If we are unable to manage our access to the global debt markets, even when the overall financial exposures to any one, or a combination, of these factors, this could markets are under stress.
We seek to manage our liquidity adversely impact our cash ow, profits and or profit margins.
A requirements by maintaining access to global debt markets through material and significant shortfall in net cash ow could undermine short-term and long-term debt programmes.
In addition, we have Unilevers credit rating, impair investor confidence and hinder our committed credit facilities to underpin our commercial paper ability to raise funds, whether through access to credit markets, programme and for general corporate purposes.
We regularly commercial paper programmes, long-term bond issuances or update our cashow forecasts and assess the range of volatility due otherwise.
In times of financial market volatility, we are also to pension asset values, interest rates and currencies.
We potentially exposed to counterparty risks with banks.
concentrate cash in parent and finance companies to ensure maximum exibility for meeting changing business needs.
We We are exposed to market interest rate uctuations on our oating finance our operating subsidiaries through a mixture of retained rate debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the earnings, third-party borrowings and loans from parent and group interest cost of our oating rate debt and increase the cost of companies.
Group Treasury regularly monitors exposure to our future borrowings.
Our inability to manage the interest cost third-party banks, tightening counterparty limits where appropriate.
effectively could have an adverse impact on our cash ow, profits The Group actively manages its banking exposures on a daily basis.
In order to minimise interest costs and reduce volatility, our interest Because of the breadth of our international operations we are rate management policy aims to achieve an appropriate balance subject to risks from changes to the relative value of currencies between xed and oating rate interest exposures on forecast net which can uctuate widely and could have a significant impact on debt levels for the next five years.
We achieve this through a our assets, cash ow, turnover, profits and or profit margins.
combination of issuing xed rate long-term debt and by modifying Further, because Unilever consolidates its financial statements in the interest rate exposure of debt and cash positions through the euros it is subject to exchange risks associated with the translation use of interest rate swaps.
of the underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by individual In order to manage currency exposures we maintain a policy countries which could limit our ability to import materials paid by whereby operating companies manage trading and financial foreign foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
exchange exposures within prescribed limits and by the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Regional groups monitor Certain businesses have dened benefit pension plans, most now compliance with this policy.
Further, operating companies borrow in closed to new employees, which are exposed to movements in local currency except where inhibited by local regulations, lack of interest rates, uctuating values of underlying investments and local liquidity or local market conditions.
For those countries that, in increased life expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs the view of management, have a substantial retranslation risk we could potentially increase the cost to Unilever of funding the may decide to hedge such net investment through the use of schemes and therefore have an adverse impact on profitability and foreign currency borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
Our pension investment policies require us to invest across a range In view of the current economic climate and deteriorating of equities, bonds, property, hedge funds and cash such that the government deficit positions, tax legislation in the countries in failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on which we operate may be subject to change, which may have an the overall value of assets.
The majority of assets, including those adverse impact on our profits.
held in our pooled investment vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers and are regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions department.
On tax, we maintain high quality tax compliance procedures and documentation, execute prudent tax planning strategies and make proper provision for current and deferred taxation.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed regularly for recoverability.
32 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk Consumer safety and environmental sustainability Maintaining high social and environmental standards Designing and producing products that are safe for consumers Building an environmentally sustainable business Unilever has developed a strong corporate reputation over many Our Code of Business Principles and other operational and business years for its focus on social and environmental issues, including policies are designed to ensure that we consistently maintain high promoting sustainable development and utilisation of renewable social and environmental standards, and we have established resources.
The Unilever brand logo, now displayed on all our processes to track performance in these areas.
Our strategy benets products and advertising, increases our external exposure.
Should from the insights of the Unilever Sustainable Development Group, we fail to meet high product safety, social, environmental and comprising five external specialists in corporate responsibility and ethical standards across all our products and in all our operations sustainability, that guide and critique the development of our and activities it could impact our reputation, leading to the rejection strategy.
of products by consumers, damage to our brands including growth Detailed operational policies and procedures ensure that quality and and profitability, and diversion of management time into rebuilding safety are built in to the design, manufacture and distribution of all our reputation.
Procedures are also in place to respond quickly to We aim to grow our business while reducing our environmental consumer safety and quality incidents including provision to initiate impact.
The environmental measures that we regard as most product recalls where necessary.
significant are those relating to the amounts of CO from energy 2 Our Brand Imprint process ensures that the direct and indirect that we use, the water we consume as part of our production environmental impacts of our products and brands are assessed in a processes and the amount of waste that we generate for disposal.
consistent way across the value chain.
Specic targets have been Failure to design products with a lower environmental footprint set against our environmental impact ambitions, and progress is could damage our reputation and hence long-term cash ow, monitored and published in the annual Sustainable Development turnover, profits and or profit margins.
Operations Securing raw materials and key third-party services Maintaining safe, secure and operational production and distribution capability Maintaining a competitive cost structure Handling major incidents and crises Our ability to make products is dependent on securing timely and We have strategies and policies in place to monitor shortand cost-effective supplies of production materials, some of which are long-term raw material demand forecasts.
These are used to globally traded commodities.
The price of commodities and other determine future production requirements and facilitate the key materials, labour, warehousing and distribution uctuates forward-buying of traded commodities to reduce future volatility of according to global economic conditions, which can have a commodity costs.
We have contingency plans to enable us to secure significant impact on our product costs.
For example, in 2008 we alternative key material supplies at short notice, to transfer share saw unprecedented increases in many of our commodity costs, production between manufacturing sites and to use substitute including edible oils and crude oil.
If we are unable to increase materials in our product formulations and recipes.
prices to compensate for higher input costs, this could reduce our We have programmes of regular preventative maintenance for cash ow, profits and or profit margins.
If we increase prices more key lines and production sites.
We have in place mandatory than our competitors, this could undermine our competitiveness occupational health and safety policies to ensure the well-being and hence market shares.
and safety of our employees, including procedures for regular selfFurther, two-thirds of the raw materials that we buy come from certication.
Changing weather patterns, water scarcity and We regularly undertake value improvement programmes to identify unsustainable farming practices threaten the long-term viability of cost value opportunities in direct and indirect costs.
A reduction in agricultural production may internal product and service costs against external providers and we limit our ability to manufacture products in the long term.
regularly model our production, distribution and warehousing We are dependent on regional and global supply chains for the capability to optimise capacity utilisation and cost.
supply of raw materials and services and for the manufacture, We routinely assess potential threats to our operations that could, if distribution and delivery of our products.
We may be unable to they materialise, give rise to a major incident or crisis.
We review respond to adverse events occurring in any part of this supply chain the appropriateness of our incident response, business continuity such as changes in local legal and regulatory schemes, labour and disaster recovery plans taking into account external shortages and disruptions, environmental and industrial accidents, developments.
bankruptcy of a key supplier or failure to deliver supplies on time and in full, which could impact our ability to deliver orders to our customers.
Any of the foregoing could adversely impact our cash ow, turnover, profits and or profit margins and harm our reputation and our brands.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Description of risk What we are doing to manage the risk People and talent Attracting, developing and retaining a skilled workforce to build and maintain a t-for-purpose organisation Attracting, developing and retaining talented employees is essential Resource Committees have been established and implemented to the delivery of our strategy.
If we fail to determine the throughout our business.
These committees have responsibility for appropriate mix of skills required to implement our strategy and identifying future skills and capability needs, dening career paths subsequently fail to recruit or develop the right number of and professional training programmes, benchmarking the elements appropriately qualied people, or if there are high levels of staff of reward structures, both shortand long-term, and identifying the turnover, this could adversely affect our ability to operate key talent and leaders of the future.
Regular internal surveys are successfully, and hence grow our business and effectively compete conducted to gauge employee views and obtain feedback.
We have an integrated management development process which includes regular performance review, underpinned by a common set of Standards of Leadership behaviours, skills and competency proling, mentoring, coaching and training.
Legal and regulatory Complying with and anticipating new legal and regulatory requirements Unilever is subject to local, regional and global rules, laws and Specialists or specialist teams at global, regional and local level are regulations, covering such diverse areas as product safety, product responsible for setting policies and ensuring that all employees are claims, trademarks, copyright, patents, employee health and safety, aware and comply with regulations and laws specic and relevant the environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, to their roles.
Internal competition law compliance procedures and employment and taxes.
Important regulatory bodies in respect of training are reinforced and enhanced on an ongoing basis.
There is our business include the European Commission and the US Food a Legal Policy which sets out the specic activities and processes for and Drug Administration.
Failure to comply with laws and which employees must seek the agreement of internal legal counsel regulations could leave Unilever open to civil and or criminal legal in advance of making a commitment.
challenge and, if upheld, fines or imprisonment imposed on us or our employees.
Further, our reputation could be signicantly damaged by adverse publicity relating to such a breach of laws or regulations and such damage could extend beyond a single geography.
Restructuring and change management Delivering major restructuring projects effectively In recent years Unilever has launched global and regional All significant global and regional restructuring projects are restructuring programmes to help simplify our organisational approved by the Unilever Executive and sponsored by a Unilever structure, leverage common platforms, realise benets from our Executive member.
Regular updates are provided to the Unilever regional and global scale and outsource business processes.
Implementation of such programmes requires significant effort and Sound project disciplines are used in executing restructuring attention from management and employees to complete to the projects including: clearly articulated project objectives, scope and agreed timescale and realise the anticipated benets.
In the event deliverables: an approved and properly authorised business case that we are unable to successfully implement these changes in a updated over time as necessary: detailed and up-to-date project timely manner or at all, or effectively manage third-party planning: resourcing by appropriately qualied personnel: an relationships and or outsourced processes, we may not be able to effective communication and change management plan: and realise some or all of the anticipated expense reductions.
In proper closure, where learnings are captured and disseminated.
addition, because some of the restructuring changes involve important functions, any disruption could harm the operations of our business, our reputation and or relationship with our employees.
Other risks Unilever is exposed to varying degrees of risk and uncertainty related to other factors including physical risks, legislative, environmental, scal, tax and regulatory developments, legal matters, insurance and resolution of such pending matters within current estimates, our ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, terrorism and economic, political and social conditions in the environments where we operate and new or changed priorities of the Boards.
All these risks could materially affect the Groups business, our turnover, operating profits, net profits, net assets and liquidity.
There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are currently believed to be immaterial.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Risk Management Approach The implementation of and compliance with our Code and The identication and management of risk is integral to Unilevers other critical areas of risk that Unilever faces, including legal and strategy and to achieving its long-term goals.
The Boards have regulatory compliance, is facilitated through a business oriented overall responsibility for the management of risk and for reviewing policy network.
Each policy defines mandatory standards that are the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk applied consistently across the organisation.
These policies are management approach.
broad-ranging in their nature including such areas as employee health and safety, product safety and quality, the environment, We believe that good risk management is fundamental to good ethical research, use of certain ingredients in our products, risk business management and that our success as an organisation management, accounting and reporting, share dealing and depends on our ability to identify and then exploit the key risks corporate disclosure, pension fund management, treasury and opportunities for the business.
Successful businesses management, taxation and transfer pricing.
take manage risks and opportunities in a considered, structured, controlled and effective way.
Our risk management approach is Processes embedded in the normal course of business and is summarised in Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across the diagram below.
all its operations covering strategy setting, planning, execution and performance management.
These are formalised and documented Our approach is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, as procedures at a global, regional or local level as appropriate.
assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks facing the Increasingly, these procedures are being centralised globally and business are being addressed and all information required to be automated into transactional and other information technology disclosed is reported to the Groups senior management including, systems.
where appropriate, the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer.
Assurance and Re-Assurance Senior management provides an annual Positive Assurance letter Organisation addressed to the Chief Executive officer conrming compliance The Boards have established a clear organisational structure, of their business unit with the Code of Business Principles and including formally delegated authorities, that responds to the applicable policies.
Exceptions, if any, together with remedial Principal Risk Factors that Unilever faces in the short, medium actions, form part of these written communications.
consolidated version is presented to the Disclosure Committee and the Board for their review.
Foundation and Principles Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Corporate There are also specialist ongoing compliance programs that Mission & Purpose.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the supplement the Positive Assurance exercise.
Examples of these standards of behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
include Health, Safety & Environment, Product Safety and Quality, Day-to-day responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied Information Technology, Finance and Pensions Management.
throughout Unilever rests with senior management across regions, categories, functions and operating companies.
A network of The Corporate Audit function plays a key role in providing to both Code Ofcers and Committees support the responsible operating management and the Boards an objective view and operational leaders with the activities necessary to communicate reassurance of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures to and risk management throughout Unilever.
report and respond to alleged breaches including hotlines and to capture and communicate learnings.
Chairman, Board & Committees, CEO & Unilever Executive Committee Corporate Purpose, Mission, Objectives and Code of Business Principles Strategy Performance Internal Assurance and Setting Compliance Monitoring Management Target Setting Budgets Internal Independent Operational Re-assurance Reporting Planning Corporate Audit Analysis Remuneration & incentives External Assurance Business Execution Corporate Policies and Functional Standards Governance of Unilever, Operating Framework, Roles & Responsibilities, Delegated Authorities Organisation Foundation & Principles Processes Assurance & Re-assurance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 35 Report of the Directors About Unilever Outlook and risks continued Boards assessment of compliance with the Risk Management frameworks The Boards, through Committees where appropriate, regularly review significant risk areas and decisions that could have a material impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the risks that Unilever is prepared to accept or tolerate, and how to manage and control those risks.
The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures that operate in the Group and have considered the effectiveness and remedial actions where applicable for the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Boards of Directors.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 63.
Further statements on compliance with the specic risk management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the UK Combined Code and the US Securities Exchange 1934 & Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Acts can be found on pages 60, 61 and 62 respectively.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009
