Report of the Directors Our strategy How we will win Winning through continuous improvement Delivering sustained, profitable growth requires a philosophy of continuous improvement.
This means being fast and flexible in the supply chain while keeping costs competitive.
It will also require us to make the most of our scale and aim for the best return on every euro we spend on advertising and promotion.
Fast and flexible and increasingly competitive Winning in the market is about being fast and agile to meet the changing needs of todays customers and consumers.
Of course, being competitive on cost is vital, but rather than having a purely cost-based agenda for our supply chain, we have widened our focus to ensure that we are more responsive to the constantly changing needs of our customers.
Delivering significant value During 2009 we launched a single strategy for the supply chain One Unilever Supply Chain putting customers and consumers Case study: Deodorant at the heart of everything we do.
The principal objectives for our supply chain are to deliver top-quality products with world-class Wider range service at a competitive cost.
Its a big ambition that: supports top-line growth through speeding up the roll-out at no extra cost of global launches: ensures our products are constantly on the shelf: Scent tends to be the main reason we increases profits by simplifying our structure and choose a particular deodorant so a wider reducing waste: range of fragrances is going to attract more improves cash flow by reducing stock and providing consumers.
But a wider range typically better payment terms.
The trade-off between range and cost just got a whole lot better for us, our customers and consumers The rewards are significant.
In 2009, as part of this, our with our new late variant technology.
One Unilever Supply Chain team contributed significantly to delivering 1.4 billion in savings.
The advantages of global scale Unilever has a global reach wider than many of its competitors.
Introduced at our UK plant in Leeds, the new This gives us a tremendous opportunity for improving efficiencies technology allows us to produce a common, unperfumed base for our aerosols, adding the by leveraging our scale.
We are doing this in three critical areas: fragrance only at the very last stage.
This gives us procurement: the flexibility to make many more variants without manufacturing: incurring higher costs.
Its good for us because it has contributed greatly to lower stock levels: around 70% back office services.
of our stock-keeping units have seen their minimum order quantity halved: our product change-over Single procurement strategy time has reduced from 40 minutes to just four: and we produce less waste.
But more importantly it Having a single, global procurement strategy means that where benefits customers, who have improved shelf stock bigger is better, we are getting the benefits.
For many items, buying levels and reduced lead times, and consumers, globally gives us economies of scale.
For example, significantly who can get a wider choice of fragrance at no extra cost.
reducing the number of tomato ingredients that are used in our products from 300 to just 39 enhanced the consistency of product and more @ www.
com axe quality and, at the same time, substantially reduced costs.
12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 From months to weeks at no extra cost Through a partnership with major suppliers, US personal care product labelling is now keeping pace with brand design and variant changes.
Process optimisations have created shorter print runs, quicker turnarounds and less waste, at the same label cost.
Regional sourcing operations Everyday disciplines done brilliantly In manufacturing, we believe that most of the economies of scale First, we decide on the best ways of investing our spend.
We do are to be found at the regional level.
To capture these, we are this on three levels: creating three regional sourcing companies.
These are located in allocating investment across geographies, categories Singapore and Switzerland, where the Americas sourcing company and brands: will co-locate with the European company.
allocating investment across particular projects and product launches: Internal services under one roof allocating spend locally across marketing channels Even with activities such as IT, travel, office services, accounts and promotions.
payable and accounts receivable, there are big opportunities to leverage global scale.
So in 2009 we set up a new business unit, Before we invest, we use a number of tools to answer the questions: Unilever Enterprise Support UES.
It will be operational in April how much should we be investing: and how can we maximise its 2010 and will bring together many of these activities as a key part effectiveness?
During and after the investment, we use other tools of our initiatives to drive down costs.
to look at whether it is working, how it could work better and what to do next.
This is not about replacing creativity with analytics The best return on brand and customer investment and measurement: it is about doing both brilliantly.
Unilever is the second biggest advertiser in the world.
Improving the return on our brand and customer support is one of the Through focusing on these basics, we are already seeing great biggest things we can do to achieve growth.
improvements in return on investment in a number of areas.
For example, our US foods business has increased returns by over 45% There is a tendency to think that analysing this kind of return in six years, helped by its use of econometric modelling.
on investment is some form of mystery.
We believe it is simply about being rigorous in applying our best evaluation and Future trends development techniques.
Looking ahead, there are two big themes that will dominate our media planning: how we make best use of digital media and, given the rise in prominence of global retailers, how we can make the most of in-store investments.
Case study: UltraLogistik Major savings on logistics In Europe, we spend a significant amount every year on transport.
Thats With such an opportunity for making efficiencies, we set up from suppliers factories to our factories, UltraLogistik as a separate transport management division within Unilevers supply chain.
It is managed from hubs in Poland and from our factories to our distribution Switzerland, by a team of 100 specialist transport managers.
For each centres and from there to our customers.
transport route we reviewed the arrangements and determined which And, until 2008, it was all outsourced of them should be moved into UltraLogistik, and then tendered each and managed locally, using hundreds route to get the best deal.
We are already making savings of at least of different distributors.
15%, as well as cutting down carbon emissions by moving transport off the road.
Ultimately, our aim is to bring over 50% of European transport management within UltraLogistik, and to roll out the model to other parts of Unilever.
com supplychain Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
