Report of the Directors About Unilever Our business Our business Return on invested capital ROIC is dened as profit after tax Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast-moving excluding finance and net impairment charges divided by the consumer goods.
We aim to meet everyday consumer needs for average invested capital.
A more comprehensive denition is given nutrition, hygiene and personal care with products that help on page 45.
In 2009, ROIC was 11.2% compared with 15.7% in people to feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Unilever 2008, which benefited from significant profits on business is a global business which by the end of the year was generating disposals.
Excluding the impact of profits on sale of group more than half of its turnover in developing and emerging markets companies, ROIC was at the same level as in 2008. in Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe and Latin America.
Unilevers portfolio includes such well-known brands as Knorr, Within our peer group of 21 companies, our ranking for Total Lipton, Hellmanns, Magnum, Omo, Dove, Lux and Axe Lynx.
Shareholder Return over a three-year period was 5th in 2009.
This measure forms part of the basis for the long-term remuneration of Our long-term ambition is to be in the top third of a group of top management.
Further information is given on page 46.
21 fast moving consumer goods companies in terms of total shareholder return on a three-year basis.
A list of the companies In addition to these financial indicators, we track other measures included in our peer group in 2009 is set out on page 46. in support of our strategic goals.
We believe that the share of our business that is generated in Developing and Emerging D&E Key indicators 2009 performance and portfolio markets, and the proportion of our turnover that is generated by During 2009, progress against our key financial performance our top 25 brands are particularly relevant.
For the latter measure indicators was as follows: we group together brands that have common consumer proles and are supported by common innovation programmes, although 2009 2008 2007 in some cases the brand names may vary between countries.
The results for these measures for the last three reporting years are Underlying sales growth % 3.5 7.4 5.5 Underlying volume growth % 2.3 0.1 3.7 as follows: Operating margin % 12.6 17.7 13.1 Operating margin before RDIs % 14.8 14.6 14.5 2009 2008 2007 Ungeared free cash ow billion 4.9 3.2 3.8 Share of turnover in D&E markets % 49 47 44 Return on invested capital % 11.2 15.7 12.7 Share of turnover in top 25 brands % 73 73 73 Total shareholder return ranking 5 98 Our denition of D&E markets includes all countries in Latin Underlying sales growth, underlying volume growth, operating America, Central & Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, except Japan margin before RDIs, ungeared free cash ow, return on invested and Australia.
In 2009, the turnover in D&E markets represented capital and total shareholder return are not recognised measures 49% of the turnover of the Group.
Further information about our use of these measures, including denitions and, where appropriate, reconciliation to Our D&E strategy aims to increase the penetration and IFRS measures, can be found in our Financial Review starting on consumption of our categories with D&E consumers at all income page 37. levels and to trade consumers up to higher added value products as needs change with rising incomes.
We have an outstanding Underlying sales growth USG is dened as the percentage geographic footprint in D&E markets.
Our focus is to maintain and increase in turnover, adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and develop our leading category and brand positions in our D&E disposals and exchange rate uctuations.
In 2009, underlying sales strongholds, such as Brazil, India, South Africa and Indonesia, growth was 3.5% compared with 7.4% in 2008.
Underlying whilst simultaneously investing aggressively for growth to build up volume growth is underlying sales growth after excluding the new brand and category positions in countries that present impact of price changes.
important new growth opportunities, notably China and Russia.
Operating margin for 2009 was 12.6% compared with 17.7% in In the last decade we have strengthened our brand portfolio, with 2008, which benefited signicantly from the net impact of profits the top 25 brands now collectively contributing 73% of our global on disposals, restructuring charges and other one-off items.
Before turnover, and our top 13 brands together accounting for sales of these items the underlying improvement in operating margin in 23.5 billion.
We also monitor the development of our brands through Ungeared free cash ow UFCF is dened as the cash ow from independent market information that gives us insights into our operating activities less net capital expenditure, pension charges, leading positions versus our direct competitors.
In our section on share-based compensation costs and tax.
A more comprehensive Operating environment on page 27 we indicate the product areas denition is given on page 45.
In 2009, UFCF was 4.9 billion, in which we have leading or key strategic positions.
which was 1.7 billion higher than a year earlier.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Report of the Directors About Unilever Our business continued Key indicators 2010 performance and portfolio The table below shows the results for the last three years.
Throughout 2009 Unilever has consistently communicated to 2009 2008 2007 shareholders that its main business objective is to restore volume and underlying sales growth while steadily improving operating Total recordable accident frequency rate a margins and cash ow.
There are a number of strategic priorities TRFR per 1,000,000 hours 1.91 2.10 2.60 CO from energy per tonne of which support this objective.
It is this combination of top-line 2 production kg 141.61 145.92 149.18 revenue growth and bottom-line profits growth that Unilever 3 Water per tonne of production m 2.80 2.97 3.05 believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
It is our Total waste per tonne of production kg 6.63 7.91 7.56 objective to be among the best performers in our peer group.
a As a consequence of improving our safety performance over many years, in 2009 Unilever decided to increase the denominator used Going forward we will therefore report our financial performance to calculate TRFR from 100,000 to 1,000,000 hours.
Using this against a revised set of key indicators, certain of which will also be new higher factor has the effect of increasing our current and historical TRFR data by a factor of ten, as shown in the table reected in targets for executive and management remuneration.
Principal among these will be: Data for 2009 is preliminary.
It will be independently assured and Underlying sales growth as previously reported : reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 2009 at Underlying volume growth sales growth excluding the impact www.
com sustainability The data shown for 2008 and of pricing changes : 2007 has been assured.
Improvement in underlying operating margin before RDIs replacing reported operating margin : and The type of assurance undertaken has been limited to enquiries of Operating cash ow replacing ungeared free cash ow.
company personnel and analytical procedures together with review on a sample basis of the operation of processes relating to Key indicators people and sustainability performance data noted in the table above.
Assurance of this Identifying and addressing social and environmental concerns is nature is substantially less in scope than a financial audit and does essential to the long-term success of Unilever, as recognised in our not include detailed sample testing of source data, processes or new vision to double the size of the business, while reducing our internal controls.
None of the assurance services in this area is environmental impact.
Handling these aspects of our operations provided by Unilevers external financial auditors.
well not only represents sensible management of risk, but presents new opportunities for business growth.
We have many indicators On pages 18 to 21 of this report we give examples of the ways in to measure our progress in these areas, however the ones we which our brands are addressing consumers social and regard as key are peoples safety and the three environmental environmental concerns.
A comprehensive review of Unilevers measures below.
social and environmental performance can be found in our annual Sustainable Development Report, available online at We take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace.
com sustainability Our online Report will contain We aim to continuously improve the health, safety and well-being updated and independently assured results for 2009 for the of everyone working for or on behalf of Unilever.
A key measure measures above, as well as trend information that demonstrates of our progress in this area is our total recordable accident our performance over the longer term.
frequency rate, which counts all employee workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
Ten-year trends in many of the measures described above, together with a range of other indicators, are included in the We are committed to meeting the needs of customers and document entitled Unilever Charts which can be found on our consumers in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, website at www.
com investorrelations annual reports through continuous improvement in environmental performance in all our activities.
As a multinational business, it is essential that Organisation we exercise the same concern for the environment wherever we Unilevers organisation comprises regions, categories and operate.
The environmental measures that we regard as the most functions.
significant in relation to our business are those relating to the amounts of CO from energy that we produce, the water that we 2 Our regions have profit responsibility for the local go-to-market consume as part of our production processes, and the amount of operations in their geographic territory.
The focus is primarily to waste that we generate for disposal.
For further information build and develop relationships with customers, to develop the please refer also to page 20. regional supply chain to deliver customer service and asset productivity, and to deploy brands and innovations effectively, focused on excellent execution in the market place.
The performance of the regions is measured in terms of in-year financial results, customer service levels and market positions.
26 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The global category team aims to develop winning category and Our products are sold in over 170 countries around the world.
In brand strategies, to create exciting new brand communication, many countries we manufacture the products that we sell, while product innovation and renovation, and to provide strategic we also export products to countries where we do not have direction for the supply chain.
The category team is responsible for manufacturing operations.
The manufacturing network is medium-term value creation, considering items such as market generally determined by an optimised regional sourcing strategy share, category growth, brand health and innovation.
which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality, service, cost and exibility.
Certain of our businesses, such as Our functional teams, notably Finance and Human Resources, are ice cream, are subject to significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
responsible for providing business partnering, strategic support However, Unilever operates globally in many different markets and and competitive services across the global business.
Such functions product categories, and no individual element of seasonality is are organised around these same principles of business partners, likely to be material to the results of the Group as a whole.
shared services and centres of expertise.
Our products use a wide variety of raw and packaging materials The top management team, called the Unilever Executive UEx, which we source internationally, and which may be subject to consists of the CEO with eight direct reports, including regional price volatility.
For example in 2008 we saw unprecedented price Presidents for Western Europe, the Americas and Asia Africa CEE, increases in many of our materials, notably in edible oils, which are one global President for the categories, and four functional heads, used in many food products as well as some personal care namely the CFO, Chief HR officer, Chief R&D officer and Chief products, and of crude oil, which is relevant to our transport costs Supply Chain officer.
but also used as an input for certain petrochemicals and packaging materials.
Operating environment In our markets, we compete with a diverse set of competitors.
Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance with Some of these operate on an international scale like ourselves, agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint ventures while others have a more regional or local focus.
Other than those disclosed in this report, there were no related party transactions that were material to the Group We aim to focus on providing consumers with added-value or to the related parties concerned that are required to be reported in 2009 or the two preceding years.
products that will help them to feel good, look good and get more out of life, in several important ways: For more information about related party transactions please refer also to note 30 on page 128. creating and nurturing attractive brands that are trusted and preferred by consumers and which seek to address consumer needs and aspirations better than other brands: Resources developing and rolling out new and better products and concepts across our regions and product categories, supported Our brands by innovative communication campaigns: and We have a strong and well-differentiated portfolio of global and optimising and improving the productivity and efficiency of our local brands, which are positioned to meet the needs and cost and asset base whilst ensuring consistent high quality of aspirations of our consumers across a variety of price points, our products.
segments and channels, allowing us to compete effectively in our key categories and countries.
Around 70% of our turnover is in countries and categories where we have a leadership position, as measured by the value of In 2009 eleven of our brands had global turnover of 1 billion or turnover.
We hold the global number 1 position in savoury, more.
These were Knorr, Hellmanns, Lipton, Becel Flora Healthy spreads, dressings, tea, ice cream, deodorants and mass skin care.
Heart, Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Walls Algida We hold the global number 2 position in laundry detergents and Heartbrand, Omo, Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and daily hair care.
We have strong local positions in household care Degree and Axe Lynx.
We manage our brands under the following four category Unilevers products are generally sold through our own sales force headings: savoury, dressings and spreads: ice cream and as well as through independent brokers, agents and distributors to beverages: personal care: and home care.
chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are physically Savoury, dressings and spreads includes soups, bouillons, sauces, distributed through a network of distribution centres, satellite snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, margarines, spreads and warehouses, company-operated and public storage facilities, cooking products such as liquid margarines, and some frozen depots and other facilities.
Our key brands here are Knorr, Hellmanns, Becel Flora Healthy Heart, Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Calv, Wish-Bone, Amora, Rag and Bertolli.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Report of the Directors About Unilever Our business continued Ice cream and beverages includes ice cream sold under the Personal vitality is also something we feel strongly about and we international Heartbrand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte have programmes and activities in place which are designed to dOr and Solero, Walls, Kibon, Algida and Ola.
Our portfolio also help everyone in the business take care of themselves and includes Ben & Jerrys, Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle.
This encourage a better quality of life.
By creating a vitalising work category also includes tea-based beverages, where our principal experience and environment for our people we help them feel brands are Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG Tips, as well as weight energised and able to perform to the very best of their ability.
management products through our Slim Fast range and nutritionally enhanced products sold in developing markets, We have created an inclusive environment where people can bring including Annapurna and AdeS.
their whole self to work: they do not have to change to t in.
We want people to be themselves.
This drives a higher level of Within these groups, we also include sales by Unilever engagement and, as a direct result, improves all-round performance.
Foodsolutions, which is a global food service business providing solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
The fact that everyone is unique and has different interests outside the ofce has a positive impact on the way we work and on our In personal care, six global brands are the core of our business in culture.
Understanding other people's perspectives and learning the mass skin care, daily hair care and deodorants product areas from them adds variety and enriches what we do.
Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and Degree, Sunsilk including Seda Sedal, Axe Lynx and Ponds.
Other important brands include Our total employee numbers over the last five years were as Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and follows: Close Up in oral care.
Year end in thousands 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Our home care ranges include laundry products, such as tablets, traditional powders and liquids for washing clothing by hand or Asia Africa CEE 95 102 97 98 118 machine.
Tailored products including soap bars are available for The Americas 40 42 43 45 47 Western Europe 28 30 34 36 41 lower-income consumers.
Our brands include Omo Dirt is Good platform, Surf, Comfort, Radiant and Skip.
Our household care Total 163 174 174 179 206 products include surface cleaners and bleach, sold under the Cif, Domestos and Sun Sunlight brands.
Diversity Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, Please refer also to pages 8 to 21 where we give many examples creating possibilities and growing together for better business of the ways in which our brand portfolio is being actively managed performance.
We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means in support of our strategic objectives.
giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality, Our employees race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
Diversity plays a vital role in We believe in providing an environment where individuals can ensuring we understand consumers needs.
achieve their goals, both professionally and personally.
In order to attract and retain the best people, we recognise the need to offer The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our business.
them ways to take advantage of opportunities, room to succeed It is driven by the Global Diversity Board, chaired throughout 2009 and grow, and more directions in which to pursue their careers.
by Chief Executive officer Paul Polman.
Our success depends on innovation, so we do everything we can Unilever is a very culturally diverse business, with 20 different to ensure that the enterprising people we employ have the nationalities represented among our top-tier management.
We give them all the support and encouragement they need.
At the same time, we empower them to make tough We have worked to embed diversity rmly into our day-to-day decisions, implement new ideas and use their initiative.
As a result business decisions, via our talent management and people our people have a passion for achievement, strive for outstanding processes, from appointments to development.
In addition the results and are determined to get things done.
Global Diversity Board has agreed a number of actions which must be implemented by all of our business units to promote and We believe in everyones ability to develop and grow, and that life support increased diversity.
Our business units are required to at work should be a continuous learning journey and that we all report progress against each of these actions on a quarterly basis have an equal right to take advantage of the opportunity to using the Diversity Scorecard, which is reviewed by the Global develop ourselves.
In our view, seizing the opportunity to make Diversity Board.
a difference is more important than simply progressing up the ladder.
28 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Information Technology Intellectual property Unilever IT is a global function headed by a Chief Information We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we officer, reporting to the Chief Financial officer, with a strategy conduct some of our operations under licences that are based on to deliver simple and competitive IT solutions in a cost-effective patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not way to support the business agenda.
dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use all appropriate efforts to protect our brands and technology.
A common technology framework and common standards for architecture, key technologies, process, information and service Laws and regulation allow Unilever to simplify its IT operations to better exploit Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations designed global scale in IT.
For example, this common approach facilitates to ensure that products may be safely used for their intended the move towards regional supply chain organisations and purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful and not the development of regional shared service centres, notably misleading.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by data in Finance and Human Resources, which in some cases protection and anti-trust legislation.
Important regulatory bodies in are outsourced.
respect of our businesses include the European Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
The IT function is a key enabler for the transformation towards a globally aligned business through: We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities strategic alliances and partnerships with global suppliers: comply in all material respects with the above-mentioned laws and improving IT infrastructure and service levels, whilst regulations.
reducing costs: building consistent IT capabilities, processes and databases: and Legal proceedings strategic outsourcing in selected key areas.
We are involved from time to time in legal and arbitration proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
For Unilever partners with a selected group of leading suppliers to information on current outstanding legal proceedings and develop and maintain a limited number of complementary IT ongoing regulatory investigations please refer to Legal systems that collectively cover our business needs.
This promotes proceedings within note 25 on page 122. radical simplication, increased exibility and agility, faster implementation and reduced costs.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29
