Report of the Directors Our strategy How we will win Winning in the market place Our biggest growth opportunity lies in expanding Lead market development The worlds population, currently 6.8 billion, is set to grow to the markets in which we compete.
Today, 5.9 billion live in developing and emerging and emerging countries there is huge potential markets countries such as Brazil, India and Indonesia where for future growth as more and more people start Unilever has deep roots and a wide presence.
We already reach consuming personal and household products many more consumers than our competitors in these markets.
To realise this potential, we will Market development is about developing and growing categories.
need to partner with our customers in both the There are three ways of doing this: developed and developing markets.
more users increasing market penetration : more usage increasing consumption : more benefits getting consumers to buy higher value products.
In recognising that fragrance is a major reason why people choose one brand over another, new fragrance launches are helping to increase market penetration, introduce new users to the brand and ensure our product mix remains up to date.
This, in turn, has helped Axe become the worlds leading male deodorant and shower gel.
Putting market development into practice requires a rigorous, consistent approach across all our categories.
During 2009 our global category development teams produced market development models for every category.
These models are now with our country teams who are using them as the basis of plans for their local markets.
This approach has already shown excellent results in many of the markets in which we operate.
Case study: Walmart USA Unilever was the exclusive partner of Walmart Soundcheck.
Winning in Walmart The campaign featured music talent such as Jennifer Hudson and Martina McBride.
Our brands, including Dove and Suave, were able to reach their target consumers in a new, innovative way.
Using hit album releases to sell our personal care products?
The A video of a latest hit, along with exclusive interviews with the Soundcheck campaign with Walmart engaged top artists whose artist, was shown in-store in the electronics department, and images reinforce our brands.
With continuous exposure in almost was available as a download from the Walmart website.
In-store every Walmart store, the campaign reached around 130 million merchandising and additional online programming further amplified the campaign.
Not only did the programme result in target consumers per week, making a huge contribution to our a big increase in sales for our products, but Walmart saw a rise 6.8% uplift in sales in Walmart in 2009. in music sales of the featured artists.
Soundcheck is a multi-year exclusive partnership, so were looking for another good year in 2010. and more @ www.
com suave 10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Case study: Lipton Trading up with the worlds most popular tea brand Increasing the value of Lipton, the worlds most popular tea brand, is all about conversion partly conversion from some other drink to tea, but also from loose-leaf tea up the value chain through different types of tea bags.
In developing and emerging markets, most people still make tea from loose leaves.
There is a huge opportunity to convert consumers to tea bags and, as the worlds largest tea brand, Lipton is well placed to lead this development.
In 2009, helped also by innovations in fruit teas, Lipton grew by 7.4% across the world.
With many markets only just beginning to wake up to tea bags, we believe there is plenty of opportunity for further growth.
com lipton Win with winning customers During 2009 we focused much more closely on sales There is a growing trend in the retail industry towards consolidation, fundamentals, a set of company-wide measures covering every with fewer but larger retailers.
Thanks to our global scale and aspect of our in-store presence.
We have performed well against local knowledge, Unilever is ideally placed to help those customers these measures, which have been one of the many drivers in achieve their own growth ambitions.
improving customer service in most of our key countries.
In 2008 we opened in New Jersey the first of a network of The detail of what works in one type of store wont work customer insight and innovation centres to work directly with for all, however.
A superstore in the US is very different from retailers.
The centre covers everything from merchandising and a local retailer in a small town in China, both in terms of the store layout, to displays and packaging.
Through the centre, products it carries and the way those products are sold.
But for we work with customers to design and test concepts without each type of store, by channel and geography, there is a perfect going to the expense of real in-store pilots.
Since opening, concept namely, what the shop would look like if it were the the centre has generated significant growth opportunities.
Our perfect sales vehicle for our categories and brands.
London centre has since opened and we plan to open three more in 2010 in Paris, Shanghai and So Paulo.
We developed the perfect store concept in the AAC region Asia, Africa and Central & Eastern Europe in early 2009.
We Be an execution powerhouse began implementing it in modern trade outlets across the region, Market development and great relationships with customers focusing on the regions largest four categories skin cleansing, will only be points of advantage if we execute with excellence.
hair, fabric cleaning and tea.
In some smaller outlets, we even This is not a complicated concept.
It is about the everyday succeeded in executing the transformation overnight, taking disciplines of ensuring that we are delivering to our customers the competition by surprise and maximising the impact of the products they want, in the quantities they ordered at the the change.
This involves having a customer-focused approach across our brand building, customer development Over the next few years our aim is to continue implementing and supply chain teams.
the perfect store concept across the AAC region, while in the coming year, the concept is being rolled out around the business.
Coffee ice cream dream Unilever is gaining momentum in the North American ice cream market with a partnership to produce an own-brand super-premium ice cream for Starbucks.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11
