Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Terms of reference Code of Business Principles and Business Partner Code The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee oversees The Committee scrutinises two important codes of practice the Unilevers conduct as a responsible multinational business.
It is also Code of Business Principles and the Business Partner Code to charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected and ensure that they remain t for purpose and are appropriately enhanced.
Inherent in this is the need to identify any external applied.
It complements the role of the Audit Committee, which considers the Codes as part of its remit to review risk developments which are likely to have an influence upon Unilevers management.
standing in society and to bring these to the attention of the Boards.
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of both codes.
Implementation rests with the Unilever Executive who are Pursuant to this remit the Boards have expressly delegated to the supported by the Corporate Code Committee and the global code Committee day-to-day oversight of the conduct of Unilevers compliance organisation.
Implementation is further supported by response to the ongoing investigations by the European the legal function for the Code of Business Principles and the Commission and other national authorities into alleged supply management function for the Business Partner Code.
The Chief Legal officer and Supply management is also responsible for gaining assurance from external counsel report to the Committee in this regard and suppliers that they adhere to the Business Partner Code.
matters are then considered by the full Board.
For further information please refer to Legal proceedings on page 122.
Code of Business Principles The Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of conduct The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive to which we expect our employees to adhere.
It is complemented Directors: Leon Brittan Chairman, Hixonia Nyasulu, Narayana by a Management Commentary which provides guidelines for Murthy and Louise Fresco.
employees on practical implementation of the Code of Business Principles.
In 2009 Unilevers Global Code officer conducted a To ensure that it is kept up to date with current and emerging benchmarking exercise on the Commentary, leading to clearer and sustainability issues, the Committee benets from the insights of more detailed guidance on topics such as gifts and entertainment.
The first is the Unilever Sustainable Development Group USDG five experts from outside the Group who advise In 2009 existing training on the Code was strengthened by the on Unilevers sustainability strategy.
The second is CRISP, the roll-out of a new online training module and separate training Corporate Responsibility, Issues, Sustainability and Partnerships sessions on compliance with competition policy.
group of senior executives from across the business.
Both groups are chaired by Vindi Banga, President Foods, Home and Personal The Committee endorsed these developments as they are essential Care and member of the Unilever Executive.
in ensuring that Unilevers standards are well-understood and respected by employees.
The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available on our website at Alleged infringements of the Code of Business Principles are www.
com monitored by the Committee.
This responsibility includes alleged infringements of competition law.
Meetings Meetings are held quarterly.
The Committee Chairman reports the conclusions to the Board.
Business Partner Code Unilevers Business Partner Code sets the standards that we expect In 2009 the Committee continued to offer its advice on the of suppliers in areas such as health and safety at work, business development of Unilevers sustainability strategy.
Members were integrity, respect for labour standards, consumer safety and updated on the Groups sustainability priorities climate change, safeguarding the environment.
water, sustainable sourcing and waste and commented on proposals for creating business-wide environmental targets.
The Committee has monitored the development and implementation of the Code over recent years.
The Code is Topics discussed in 2009 included: competition-related issues: supported by an Assurance Policy that sets out the operational food labelling and health claims: genetically modied organisms in standards needed from suppliers to deliver the Codes the food chain: packaging: palm oil, deforestation and climate commitments.
Particular attention was given to the topics set out below.
64 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Labour standards The only case outstanding is at Doom Dooma, India where the Between 2006 and 2009, four complaints were brought to company is seeking resolution of the issue.
Unilever's attention by the International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Given the potential damage that these complaints pose to Workers' Associations IUF relating to our operations in India and Unilevers reputation as a responsible business, the Committee Pakistan.
These complaints concerned site closure Sewri factory, kept a close watch on progress during the year.
Members urged India, freedom of association and collective bargaining Doom Unilever to address the matter in detail and welcomed the revised Dooma factory, India and the use of temporary and contracted approach that the Group put in place to adjust its labour practices.
labour at our factories in Pakistan Rahim Yar Khan and Khanewal.
A further complaint regarding a suppliers factory in Leon Brittan Turkey was submitted by the Turkish transport union TUMTIS Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility and in 2008.
Reputation Committee Louise Fresco Under the terms of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Narayana Murthy Enterprises, the unions referred their complaints to the OECD's Hixonia Nyasulu National Contact Points in the UK and Turkey for investigation.
Four of the complaints have been resolved: The TUMTIS complaint in Turkey was settled locally in January 2009: Unilever Pakistan reached agreement with the IUF to settle the dispute at Rahim Yar Khan in June 2009.
In October Unilever Pakistan reached an agreement relating to Khanewal: and at Sewri, a settlement payment was agreed by Hindustan Unilever and local trade union representatives HLEU in October 2009.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 65
