Report of the Directors Performance 2009 Growing sustainably Our goal is to double the size of the business whilst at the same time reducing our environmental footprint.
We define this footprint broadly.
It extends well beyond our own operations to encompass the whole value chain our activities from the sourcing of raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of our products.
This is a challenging objective, but we start from a strong base.
Total waste sent from our factories for disposal has been cut For more than a decade we have been reducing the environmental by 73% per tonne of production since 1995. impact of our own factories and supporting our agricultural suppliers to improve their sustainability practices.
One example of action is our detergent factory in Hefei, China.
Straw waste previously burned by local farmers is now collected During 2009 we also carried out a major piece of work to and used to generate power.
This improves air quality, reduces measure more accurately Unilevers impacts on the world around CO emissions and provides farmers with extra income.
A new set of metrics was piloted to assess our global brands against four indicators greenhouse gas emissions, water, waste At our Gloucester factory in the UK, where we make Walls and and agricultural sourcing.
Magnum ice cream, we will reduce CO from energy by more 2 than 3,000 tonnes a year through the installation of a combined The analysis highlighted again that our direct impact from heat and power CHP plant.
The 2.4 megawatt plant is primarily factories, offices, lorries, business travel and so forth was small in fuelled by natural gas, with heat in the form of hot water and comparison with other parts of our value chain.
How people use steam produced as a by-product.
This heat is re-used in the our washing powders, for example, has a much bigger impact manufacturing process.
than where or how we make them.
Sourcing sustainably Our own operations Around 50% of the raw materials that we use for our products Although emissions and waste from factories represent only a come from agriculture and forestry.
We buy approximately 12% of small part of our footprint, we are committed to reducing them.
the worlds black tea, 6% of its tomatoes and 3% of its palm oil.
Since 1995 we have achieved a 41% reduction in CO from Our goal is to source all our key agricultural raw materials 2 energy per tonne of production.
In 2009 we achieved a reduction sustainably.
Through our Sustainable Agriculture Programme, of 3% compared to 2008. we have developed detailed guidelines on what sustainable agriculture means for our key crops.
Our guidelines cover criteria Since 1995 we have reduced by 65% the amount of water such as reducing fertiliser and pesticide use, conserving water, we use to make a tonne of product.
During 2009 we achieved promoting biodiversity and using less energy.
a 5.6% reduction in water use compared to 2008.
Palm oil is used in both food and home and personal care products.
We have committed to have all our palm oil purchases externally certified as sustainable by 2015.
Working with Greenpeace, we have built a global coalition of some 40 companies and NGOs Case study: Lipton A thirst for sustainability Lipton and PG tips are In 2009 80% of Lipton Yellow Label and PG tips tea bags sold in Western Europe were sourced from certified farms.
Rainforest working with the Rainforest Alliance Certified tea also became available in the US: Japan: and Alliance to promote Australia, where sales grew by 12% following the launch.
Rainforest sustainable farming practices Alliances certification standard is based on ten principles, including and improved livelihoods water conservation, wildlife protection, fair and safe treatment for tea growers.
We have of workers and good community relations.
By the end of 2009, 69 tea estates and factories had been certified, along with 38,000 made a commitment that smallholder farms in Kenya.
all the tea for Lipton and PG tips tea bags will be sourced from Rainforest Alliance and more @ www.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Case study: Laundry A cleaner planet for our consumers The Plan builds on our long-standing work to introduce products that have lower environmental impacts.
Our laundry brands, Persil, Omo and Surf, have launched a Cleaner We have been at the forefront of the development Planet Plan to reduce the impact of laundry on the environment of concentrated liquid detergents and compacted and motivate changes in consumer behaviour.
Concentration saves energy and packaging, efficient products that enable better laundry habits.
and reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 5-20% per wash, depending on the product.
The Cleaner Planet Plan also educates consumers to wash at lower temperatures, use a full load and use the right dosage of detergent.
com to combat deforestation in Asia, much of which is caused by During 2009 we contributed to a study conducted by Tesco and unsustainable agricultural practices in growing oil palms.
Around Manchester Universitys Sustainable Consumption Institute.
This two thirds of the coalitions company members have now set showed that in the UK three quarters of emissions are directly public targets for purchasing certified sustainable supplies.
or indirectly influenced by consumers.
In 2009 Unilever purchased GreenPalm certificates covering In a joint report produced with Coca-Cola we shared our 185,000 tonnes of palm oil, accounting for around 15% of our experiences in mapping impacts across the value chain ie from total needs.
GreenPalm certificates support the production of sourcing raw materials through to consumer use and disposal of sustainable palm oil certified to the standards of the Roundtable products, and in empowering consumers to change behaviour.
We also took action to suspend a major supplier in Indonesia following evidence of involvement in In Mexico, Unilever is collaborating with Walmart on a project destructive practices.
called Grupo Transforma to raise awareness among consumers about environmental protection.
Activities include waste In 2009 WWF published the 2009 Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard an collection sites at stores to encourage recycling and a travelling assessment of the palm oil purchasing practices of major European environmental exhibition La Neta del Planeta The Truth of companies.
Unilever was rated among the top five and was the Planet.
commended for showing real progress on commitments to buy and use sustainable palm oil.
Investor recognition Unilevers work has been recognised by investor rating agencies.
Reducing impacts from consumer use The Dow Jones Sustainability World Indexes cite us as food The biggest part of Unilevers emissions of both CO and water industry leader, for the 11th year running.
We have been included 2 occur during consumer use.
Many of our products require energy in the FTSE4Good Index Series since its inception in 2001. to heat water for cooking, showering or washing clothes.
Through the design and formulation of these products, we can mitigate In 2009 Unilever was the only company recognised as their impacts.
For example, Persil Small & Mighty laundry detergent best practice by the Natural Value Initiatives Ecosystem Services not only uses fewer chemicals and less packaging but also allows Benchmark, a tool developed with six institutional investors to help the consumer to wash clothes at low temperatures and on asset managers identify companies that are actively managing shorter cycles.
the risks and opportunities related to biodiversity and ecosystems.
Hazeline wins with customers and consumers Our Hazeline shampoo refill pouch in China won Walmarts Gold Award for Sustainable Packaging.
With only a third Measured by tonne of production.
of the waste of a normal pump 2009 data is preliminary.
It will bottle, consumers re-use their be independently assured and shampoo bottles and make reported in our online Sustainable cost savings too.
com sustainability Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21
