Report of the Directors Our strategy How we will win Winning with brands and innovation Brands and innovation are at the heart of In the UK, understanding that consumers are looking for value without compromising on quality, and recognising the importance everything we do.
We develop our products to of fragrance in communicating a products benefits, we keep pace with changes in consumer lifestyles developed a range of liquid concentrates for Surf detergent and to appeal to people at all income levels.
with added essential oils, resulting in 29% growth.
Success means getting bigger and better In Russia, despite a severe economic recession, we achieved innovations into the market faster, supported growth of more than 20% in our tea sales by offering choice by the very best marketing.
across multiple price points with three distinctive brands Lipton, Brooke Bond and Beseda.
And in India, where water quality remains a major concern, Superior products the breakthrough technology of Pureit, our in-home purification Our aim is to give people a great experience when they use system, is providing safe and affordable drinking water with our brands better than the competition.
We are investing in complete protection from the water-borne germs that cause improving product quality and making stronger functional diseases.
In 2009, Pureit provided safe drinking water for more claims.
We are also focusing on design, packaging, marketing than 15 million people in 3 million households in India.
and advertising, in order to get our brand benefits across more persuasively.
Using a unique jelly technology that delivers homemade taste and quality, this product is helping people create a special meal at home instead of eating out.
A major success in the UK where it enabled Knorr to become market leader in stocks, Stockpot marketed under different names in different countries is also performing well in Belgium, Greece, Ireland and Poland.
It helped create the bouillon category in China and we are now rolling it out to other markets.
Widespread appeal Product superiority is essential, but we also need to offer a broad range of choice which meets differing consumer needs and price points wherever we operate.
Case study: Liquid margarine An invention by our R&D team has achieved what Low-fat frying?
has previously been impossible: to produce a low-fat margarine that does not spit or burn when you use it for frying.
Launched in Europe in 2008, our light If youve ever tried frying with low-fat liquid margarines from our Family Goodness and Heart margarine, youll know why people use Health brands are offering consumers a new way to cook full-fat instead, and try to reduce their lighter meals.
Made of a combination of three vegetable calorie intake by using less of it.
Spitting oils, and including the important vitamins A, D and E, they make it easy to cook nutritiously for the whole and burning, low-fat oils can often let family.
And it hasnt gone unnoticed by consumers.
Liquid margarine is the fastest growing segment in our European spreads and cooking category, and our new light liquid exceeded expectations, bringing new users to the segment and our brands in both the Netherlands and Belgium.
com blueband 8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Case study: Dove Getting under your skin In 2009 we launched new Dove Body Wash with proprietary NutriumMoisture technology.
It intertwines mild cleansers with natural moisturisers helping maintain the skins natural moisture Body wash is a competitive market.
Everyone barrier, earning the product its  claim to is seeking that perfect combination: genuine provide effective natural nourishment.
Supporting the science, cleansing without drying out your skin.
The the advertising campaign gave consumers an image to remember: a fully-clothed woman in the shower, bringing to life how conventional NutriumMoisture technology in Dove contains products use moisturisers that tend to sit on the skin compared with 100% natural moisturisers that are absorbed Dove Body Wash with its penetrating moisturisation.
And with its thoroughly to nourish the skin deep down.
streamlined tear-drop packaging, less waste means the environment benefits too.
Having proved its potential in the tough US market, Dove Body Wash will be rolled out elsewhere in 2010. and more @ www.
com dove Bigger, better, faster innovations Within R&D, part of prioritising is getting the balance right Successful innovation is based on deep consumer insight.
The between the short and the long term.
With an eye to our future balance we seek to achieve is to marry global strength in R&D growth plans, during 2009 we developed a more robust process with local knowledge of peoples habits, tastes and behaviours.
for fuelling our longer-term innovation pipeline.
Called the Genesis Programme, it spans our foods and home and personal care To grow at the rate we want to, we focus investment on products categories and focuses on the breakthrough ideas that we expect that can work globally rather than on launches in just a few will deliver the biggest wins.
From 2011 we should begin to see countries.
We have also doubled the number of big projects we some of these innovations in our products.
We are already seeing results.
We have rolled out Axe Dark Temptation deodorant to 56 markets, Lipton Pyramid We continued to invest substantially in R&D, despite the economic fruit tea bags to 38 markets and Clear shampoo to 35 markets.
In 2009, we opened a new R&D centre in Shanghai.
Located in a country which is increasingly recognised as a world For a product to work at a global level, it needs to address unmet leader in developing high-end innovations, the new centre further needs with superior technology and a clear consumer concept.
underscores our commitment to driving growth through R&D.
We R&D must deliver breakthrough science in areas that really matter also started to leverage the power of our global network of R&D to consumers, with products that do what they claim.
Success labs by getting them working interdependently on key projects.
on this scale requires strict priorities and big ideas.
We put in place more rigorous planning processes to make sure that the right level and quality of resource is put behind the activities to ensure the projects succeed.
And we have stepped up our focus on a number of areas identified as critical to success such as open innovation, clinicals and patents.
Bigger, better, faster In laying the foundations for growth, we are focusing on rolling out more innovations faster and to more markets.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9
