AVEVA Plant is the most powerful and comprehensive suite of integrated software solutions available for creating and supporting all types of engineering plants.
Whether on complex new-build assets, or the smallest in-service upgrade, AVEVA Plant enables maximum productivity, error-free design, minimum project cost and the most rapid return on investment.
For further information visit: http: www.
com plant the challenge AMEC plc, one of the worlds most successful providers of consultancy, engineering and project management services to the worlds energy, power and process industries, set out to establish best-in-class project management performance to address several key issues, common across the industry: insufficiently standardised project management processes: undue reliance on individuals knowledge, resulting in inconsistent projects: unnecessary duplication of effort through the project lifecycle: and insufficiently visible project status.
the solution An established user of AVEVA Plant, AMEC engaged AVEVA in a joint analysis to identify key recommendations to implement an 18-month Standard Project Management Methodology programme SPMM.
This initiative was built on the AVEVA VPRM project management solution, using AVEVA PDMS for engineering design, Primavera for construction management, and other third-party applications such as financial systems.
AVEVA specialists provided training courses, while AMEC held cross-functional workshops to map project workflows and identify key tasks and responsibilities.
To validate the SPMM, a pilot project was carried out using data from a completed project.
the outcome Validated by testing and supported by AVEVAs technology, the SPMM programme has established a fully-defined project management process.
AMECs Project Manager Ted Barker said: AVEVA has supported us throughout with good quality training and consultancy.
Use of AVEVA products to support integrated project execution has been well-proven and AVEVA VPRM will play a key role in AMECs ability to successfully execute EPC projects of all types.
AMEC refers here to AMECs Power & Process Europe business buildiNg oN our 06 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements INFo Box Key facts AVEVA Plant includes AVEVA PDMS, recognised as the worlds leading 3D plant design application.
AVEVA Plants uniquely robust and extensible Dabacon database safeguards its users priceless investments in engineering data.
AVEVA Plant provides the only proven technology for globally distributed, concurrent execution of projects of any size.
AVEVA Plant is used on or by: the worlds most demanding oil & gas production and processing projects: the worlds leading constructors of both thermal and nuclear power plants: the worlds largest minerals and pulp & paper processors: and the worlds leading chemicals companies.
recurriNg reveNue m 94.2 94.2m 66.1 42% 52.7 40.9 32.4 05 06 07 08 09 solutions The power generation, oil & gas, chemical processing and minerals industries are the foundation of todays global economy.
Trusted by the worlds leading buildiNg oN our engineering businesses, the AVEVA Plant portfolio is a critical enabler for the design, construction and lifecycle support of capital assets of all sizes.
No comparable software suite has such advanced and comprehensive capabilities.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 07
