boarD of DireCtors Nick Prest cBe, aged 56 Richard Longdon, aged 53 Chairman Chief Executive Nick Prest joined the Board of AVEVA in January 2006.
Following a spell Richard Longdon received an engineering training in the defence at the Ministry of Defence at the outset of his career Nick joined Alvis, industry then gained experience in the project management of high the defence contractor, in 1982, becoming Chief Executive in 1989 value engineering projects.
He moved into sales and held a series of and Chairman and Chief Executive in 1996.
Nick left Alvis following international sales and marketing positions.
He joined AVEVA in 1984 and its acquisition by BAE Systems in 2004, by which time the company shortly afterwards was made marketing manager for the process products.
had become a leading international business in military land systems.
In January 1992, he relocated to Frankfurt where he was responsible for In addition to his position at Alvis, Nick had a prominent role in defence setting up and running the Groups German office.
He returned to the UK industry representation, serving as Chairman of the Defence Manufacturers as part of the management buyout team in 1994, taking responsibility Association and Vice Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council.
for the Groups worldwide sales and marketing activities, before being In addition to being Chairman of AVEVA, Nick is also Chairman of Cohort plc, appointed Managing Director in May 1999.
He took over as Group a defence technical services business floated on AIM in March 2006.
David mann, aged 64 NonExecutive Director and Senior Independent Director David Mann entered the Information Technology industry after reading Mathematics and Theoretical Physics at Cambridge University.
From 1969 to 1994 he worked for Logica plc where he became Head of Worldwide Operations, then Group Chief Executive and finally Deputy Chairman.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Velti Group plc and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Charteris plc both quoted on AIM.
He is a Past President of the British Computer Society and a Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists in the City of London.
22 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review cor corpor porat ate go e gov ver ernance finance financial statements Paul taylor FccA, aged 44 Finance Director and Company Secretary Paul Taylor is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and joined AVEVA in 1989.
He was heavily involved in the flotation process and has been responsible for UK accounting and for the development of its overseas subsidiaries, including adherence to Group standards.
Between 1998 and 2001 Paul was also UK Director of Human Resources and was appointed to the position of Finance Director and Company Secretary of AVEVA Group plc on 1 March 2001.
Before joining AVEVA, Paul trained within the accountancy profession before moving to Philips Telecommunications UK, where he was responsible for the management accounts of its public sectors division.
Jonathan Brooks, aged 53 Philip Dayer, aged 58 NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Jonathan Brooks joined AVEVA in July 2007 and has a broad range Philip Dayer qualified as a chartered accountant and pursued a corporate of financial, commercial and international experience.
He currently finance career in investment banking, specialising in advising small and holds a number of Directorships with technology based companies.
He was first appointed an Advisory Director He is a Non-Executive Director of Xyratex Limited, a Nasdaq-listed in 1983 of Barclays Merchant Bank Limited and since then has held the provider of enterprise class data storage sub systems and network position of Corporate Finance Director with a number of banks.
He retired technology, and e2v technologies plc, an LSE listed manufacturer of from Hoare Govett Limited in 2004.
Philip was a financial consultant to specialised components and sub systems.
He is also Chairman of Picochip OJSC Rosneft Oil Company, the Russian state-owned oil and gas company, Inc. a private equity company developing wireless processors and a on their flotation in 2006.
Philip is a Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Sophos plc, a software security company.
Dana Petroleum plc, Senior Independent Director of Cadogan plc, Between 1995 and 2002, he was Chief Financial Officer and a Director Senior Independent Director of Arden Partners plc and Chairman of ARM Holdings plc, where he was a key member of the team that of IP PLUS plc.
developed ARM Holdings to be a leader in its sector.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 23
