AVEVA Marine is the culmination of AVEVAs largest single development programme, fusing best-in-class shipbuilding and plant engineering software into an unrivalled solution for the design and construction of every type of ship and floating structure.
For further information visit: http: www.
com marine the challenge In 2003 ASC formerly known as Australian Submarine Corporation began a 15-year with two 5-year extension options, multi-billion dollar Through-Life Support TLS contract with Australias Defence Materiel Organisation, the Department of Defences management organisation responsible for acquiring and sustaining equipment for the Australian Defence Force.
Under the contract, ASC is responsible for the ongoing maintenance, support and design enhancements of the Royal Australian Navys Collins Class submarines, a key element of Australias Defence Force.
The six Collins Class submarines are recognised as among the best conventional non-nuclear submarines operating anywhere in the world.
the solutions A proven range of solutions is needed to ensure efficient through-life support for the submarines.
Maintenance and upgrade works carried out need to meet strict certification requirements with no margin for error for these sophisticated naval vessels.
AVEVA Marine was chosen for its efficiency and ability to meet ASCs needs.
the outcome AVEVA Marine has been installed at ASC and initial training carried out.
Translators have been written to convert their existing 3D models to AVEVA Marine these are currently being tested and a go live date of July 2009 is being targeted.
buildiNg oN our 08 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements INFo Box Key facts AVEVA Marine is used by the worlds most productive shipyards.
AVEVA Marine embodies industry best practice and decades of practical experience to enable efficient, right-first-time ship design and construction.
AVEVA Marine is the only shipbuilding solution to support multi-site, concurrent projects of any size.
AVEVA Marine and AVEVA Plant solutions are interoperable, enabling the most complex vessels to be created in a common IT environment.
divideNd per shAre p 9.36 9.36p 6.65 41% 4.18 2.46 2.03 05 06 07 08 09 expertise Selected by the worlds largest and most productive shipbuilders, AVEVA Marine is also being adopted by smaller shipyards and contractors buildiNg oN our keen to take advantage of its unique support for efficient collaborative working and the outfitting design of the most complex modern vessels.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 09
