overview business review corporate governance financial statements Other statutOry infOrmatiOn Principal activities The Company is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group are the marketing and development of computer software and services for engineering and related solutions.
Results and dividends The Group made a profit for the year after taxation of 42.2 million 2008 34.2 million.
Revenue was 164.0 million 2008 127.6 million and comprised software licences, software maintenance and services.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5 pence per ordinary share 2008 5.0 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 31 July 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 26 June 2009. Business review and future developments A review of the Groups operations during the year and its plans for the future is given in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Finance Directors review.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by AVEVA to measure its own performance at the Group level are total revenue, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and headcount.
The figures for the year ended 31 March 2009 are set out in the Finance Directors review on pages 14 to 17, together with figures for the previous year and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Suppliers payment practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with by the other party.
The Company has nil trade creditors 2008 nil.
At 31 March 2009, the Group had an average of 18 days purchases owed to trade creditors 2008 18 days.
Research and Development The Group continues an active programme of Research and Development which covers updating of and extension to the Groups range of products.
Intellectual property The Group owns intellectual property both in its software tools and the products derived from them.
The Directors consider such properties to be of significant value to the business.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in note 23 to the financial statements.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the year under review are shown below: Nick Prest Chairman David Mann NonExecutive Director and Senior Independent Director Jonathan Brooks NonExecutive Director Philip Dayer NonExecutive Director Richard Longdon Chief Executive Paul Taylor Finance Director and Company Secretary The interests all of which are beneficial in the shares of the Company of Directors who held office at 31 March 2009 in respect of transactions notifiable under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 that have been disclosed to the Company are as follows: 2009 2008 3.33 pence 3.33 pence ordinary shares ordinary shares Nick Prest 16,690 7,150 David Mann 26,700 26,700 Jonathan Brooks Philip Dayer 7,000 7,000 Richard Longdon 350,000 316,000 Paul Taylor 50,000 50,000 No changes took place in the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2009 and 26 May 2009.
Directors share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 37.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Resolutions will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for the reelection of Nick Prest, David Mann and Paul Taylor.
Brief biographical details of all Directors, including those who are proposed for reelection, appear on pages 22 and 23.
Annual report 2009 Dir Direc ectors r tors repor eport t AVEVA Group plc 25 Other statutOry infOrmatiOn continued Conflict of interest Throughout the year the Company has complied with the procedures in place for ensuring that the Boards powers for authorising conflict situations have been operated effectively.
During the year no conflicts arose which would require the Board to exercise authority or discretion in relation to such conflicts.
Takeover Directive Disclosures The additional information required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive Disclosures is set out below.
The disclosures below are in some cases a summary of the relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Share capital The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
At 31 March 2009, the Companys issued share capital consisted of a single class of ordinary shares with a nominal value of 3.33 pence.
Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
Voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares are described in the next section.
Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert to the Company.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of the members by special resolution and any other sanction required by law, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the Company and he she can value any assets and determine how the divisions shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No members can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them any liability.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares.
Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every member who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every member who is present has one vote on each resolution for every share of which he she is the registered member.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the declaration of the result of the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the Chairman of the meeting, or by at least two members present in person or by proxy and having the right to vote, or by any member or members present in person or by proxy having at least one tenth of the total voting rights of all members, or by any members present in person or by proxy holding shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least one tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right.
Under the terms of the AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008, the trustees will abstain from voting shares in the Company held by the Trust.
A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
Any form of proxy sent by the Company to members in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise such persons as it thinks fit to act as its representatives at any general meeting of the Company.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members.
No member shall be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of any share if any call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of such share remains unpaid.
The Board may direct that a member shall not be entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting in respect of some or all of the shares held by him her the Default Shares if he she or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares a Section 793 Notice and he she or any interested person fails to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of all the information required by the relevant Section 793 Notice.
The Board may refuse to register a transfer unless: it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: it is in respect of only one class of share: it is in favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees: it is duly stamped if so required : and it is delivered for registration to the office or such other place as the Board may from time to time determine, accompanied except in the case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certificate has not been issued or in the case of a renunciation by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor or person renouncing and the due execution of the transfer or renunciation by him her or, if the transfer or renunciation is executed by some other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person to do so: provided that the Board shall not refuse to register any transfer or renunciation of partly paid shares which are listed on the London Stock Exchange on the grounds that they are partly paid shares in circumstances where such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
26 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements Takeover Directive Disclosures continued Share capital continued The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of members.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
There are no restrictions on transfer of the ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Other substantial shareholdings On 26 May 2009, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Percentage held Name of holder Number % BlackRock MLIM 7,796,045 11.50 Capital Group 5,209,384 7.68 Barclays Global Investors 2,905,692 4.28 Legal & General Investment Management 2,760,479 4.07 Articles of Association The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by special resolution.
There are no conditions contained in the Memorandum in relation to the alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Appointment of Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General Meeting of the Company one third of the Directors or if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one third shall retire from office.
Those Directors who are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting shall be, first, any Director who wishes to retire and not offer himself for reappointment and second, those Directors who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment.
Any Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
Additionally, new Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by members at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit the number of Directors to not less than two and not more than ten save where members decide otherwise.
Members may remove any Director subject to the giving of special notice and, if desired, replace such removed Director by ordinary resolution.
Change of control All of the Companys sharebased plans contain provisions relating to change of control.
Outstanding awards and options normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations totalling 49,145 2008 45,997 of which 15,000 was paid to the Outward Bound Trust, 10,000 to MacMillan Cancer Support and 10,000 to The Princes Trust.
The remainder was donated to local and national charities.
During the year the Group did not make any political donations 2008 nil.
Authority to repurchase ordinary shares Resolution 9 set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting gives authority to the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 6,781,886 ordinary shares until the earlier of 8 October 2010 and the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
This represents 10% of the ordinary shares in issue at 26 May 2009 and the Companys exercise of this authority is subject to the stated upper and lower limits on the price payable which reflects the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Shares will only be repurchased if earnings per share are expected to be enhanced as a result and the Directors believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
To the extent that any shares so purchased are held in treasury, earnings per share will be enhanced until such time, if any, as such shares are resold or transferred out of treasury.
The Company has the choice of cancelling shares which have been repurchased or holding them as treasury shares or a combination of both.
Treasury shares are essentially shares which have been repurchased by the Company and which it is allowed to hold pending either reselling them for cash, cancelling them or, if authorised, using them for the purposes of its employee share plans.
The Directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this choice.
Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares would give the Company the ability to reissue them quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised, in respect of treasury shares.
As at 26 May 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of the Annual General Meeting, there were 263,399 outstanding options granted under all share option plans operated by the Company which, if exercised, would represent 0.39% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
If this authority were exercised in full and the shares repurchased were to be cancelled, such options, if exercised, would represent 0.43% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 27 Other statutOry infOrmatiOn continued Authorities to allot shares and disapply preemption rights Resolution 10 This resolution is to increase the authorised share capital of the Company by approximately 33.3%, so that should the Directors decide to take advantage of the increased authorities to allot under resolutions 11 and or 12, they will be in a position to do so.
Resolution 11 The Directors may allot relevant securities only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last Annual General Meeting is due to expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 11 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot a relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 753,542.97 and b equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount when added to allotments under part a of the resolution of 1,507,085.94 where the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
These amounts represent approximately 33.3% and approximately 66.7% respectively of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 26 May 2009.
If given, these authorities will expire at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 or on 8 October 2010, whichever is the earlier.
Where usage of these authorities exceeds the thresholds suggested by the Association of British Insurers the ABI in their December 2008 guidance, the Directors will stand for reelection at the following Annual General Meeting to the extent required by the ABI.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing shares pursuant to this authority.
As at 26 May 2009 the Company holds no treasury shares.
Resolution 12 The Directors also require additional authority from shareholders to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Accordingly, resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
Apart from offers or invitations in proportion to the respective number of shares held, the power will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and sales of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 113,031.44 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 26 May 2009.
If given, this authority will expire on 8 October 2010 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2010, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors will have due regard to institutional guidelines in relation to any exercise of this authority, in particular the requirement for advance consultation and explanation before making any non preemptive cash issue pursuant to this resolution which exceeds 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period.
Notice required for shareholder meetings The Shareholders Rights Directive is intended to be implemented in the UK in August 2009.
The regulation implementing this Directive will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after August 2009, shareholders must have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under this Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Other resolutions at the Annual General Meeting Details of the other resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are set out in the enclosed notice.
Employee benefit trust The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008 was established in 2008 to facilitate satisfying the transfer of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested options under the various share option and deferred bonus share plans of the Company.
On 15 July 2008, the Trust acquired in the open market an aggregate of 36,448 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc at a price of 13.48 for total consideration of 495,000.
The Trust holds a total of 36,448 ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc representing 0.05% of the issued share capital at the date of this report.
Under the terms of the Trust deed governing the Trust, the trustees of the Trust are required unless the Company directs otherwise to waive all dividends in respect of ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc held by the Trust except where beneficial ownership of any such ordinary shares was passed to a beneficiary of the Trust.
In the same way as other employees, the Executive Directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries under the Trust.
Disabled employees The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job.
Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, career development and promotion.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim as well as reasonable adjustments to the workplace and other support mechanisms.
Employee involvement The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Group intranet and presentations from senior management.
There is an employee representative committee which meets on a regular basis to discuss a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
All employees are entitled to receive an annual discretionary award related to the overall profitability of the Group subject to the performance of the individual and the Group.
The Group conducts employee wide surveys from time to time to gauge the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this information to improve matters as appropriate.
28 AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2009 overview business review corporate governance financial statements Directors qualifying third party indemnity provisions The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against liability in respect of proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors report.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors for the ensuing year will be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting.
Responsibility statement pursuant to FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4 DTR 4 Each Director of the Company whose names and functions appear on page 25 confirms that solely for the purpose of DTR 4 to the best of his knowledge: the financial statements in this document, prepared in accordance with the applicable UK law and accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Finance Directors review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors report are listed on page 25.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any such relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Paul Taylor High Cross Company Secretary Madingley Road 26 May 2009 Cambridge CB3 0HB Annual report 2009 Directors report AVEVA Group plc 29
