Business review enabling technologies Vectura has several important, patent-protected, enabling technology platforms.
In addition to using these technologies to support its own product development programmes, Vecturas strategy is to out-license rights to the technologies to other pharmaceutical companies where the resulting licence will generate significant value and will not impact Vecturas own product development opportunities.
Such agreements have already generated revenues from licensees whilst allowing Vectura to retain its focus on its own product development strategy.
Dry Powder Inhaled DPI GyroHaler and OmniHaler Duohaler fixed dualformulation technology Passive DPI devices therapy multi-dose including PowderHale reservoir DPI The GyroHaler and OmniHaler are novel, cost-effective, multi-unit dose DPI devices The formulation of drugs for inhalation is The Duohaler is a fixed dual-therapy, designed to deliver locally acting drugs to more complex than for oral delivery and passive, multi-dose DPI.
It has two separate the lung.
They are compact and easy to different approaches are required drug reservoirs that feed two individual use with a small number of moulded parts, depending on the characteristics of the drug formulations to two separate facilitating short device development times drug being delivered to the lung.
Vecturas metering chambers from which the drugs and competitive manufacturing costs.
The know-how, expertise and patents enable are delivered to the user in the same devices may contain up to 60 doses and the development of patent-protected breath, avoiding co-formulation issues.
They are designed inhaled products.
to have competitive aerosolisation Aspirair Active DPI Vecturas formulation technologies include characteristics and to provide excellent device technology PowderHale, micronisation, blending and drug protection from moisture and light spray drying.
PowderHale is a patented using sealed foil blisters.
Automated Aspirair is a high-performance device, DPI formulation technology, designed to form fill seal machinery for producing the designed to deliver dry powdered drugs allow aerosolised drug particles to achieve blister strips is available in Vecturas with high lung penetration and low dose high lung deposition with low dose Chippenham facility.
The device is conveniently sized, variability.
This is achieved by the simple to use, and economical compared GyroHaler and OmniHaler have the incorporation of an additional to other active inhalers.
It is a multiplepotential to deliver respiratory products in pharmacologically inactive excipient, use device using individual foil blisters.
an efficient and patient-friendly manner.
known as a Force Control Agent FCA, to the drug formulation.
Aspirair, alone or in conjunction with Clickhaler multi-dose appropriate formulation technologies, reservoir DPI can be used to deliver to the deep lung efficiently and effectively.
Aspirair has The Clickhaler is a multi-dose, reservoir the potential to deliver proteins and DPI.
It is approved for use and marketed to macromolecules.
treat asthma and COPD with a number of different drugs salbutamol, beclometasone, Unit dose DPIs formoterol, budesonide and procaterol in a number of countries in Europe and in Japan.
Unit dose devices are being developed as re-useable or disposable single-dose dry Clickhaler is inexpensive to produce and powder inhalers.
They are designed to be fill, and production is fully automated.
easy to use and inexpensive to manufacture and may be suitable for a wide range of conditions that require a rapid onset of effect or that are for occasional use.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 16
