Business review products Product pipeline Respiratory development products Product Indication Description Partner NVA237 COPD Long-acting muscarinic antagonist Novartis QVA149 COPD Combination of NVA237 and a Novartis long-acting beta agonist QAB149 VR315 Asthma COPD Generic combination product Sandoz US & Europe VR632 Asthma COPD Generic combination product Sandoz Europe Duohaler Asthma COPD Generic dual-drug product BI collaboration Various DPI for respiratory products Boehringer Ingelheim VR496 CF COPD Mucolytic anti-inflammatory Marketed products Product Indication Description Partner ADVATE Haemophilia A Serum-free recombinant factor VIII Baxter Worldwide Adept Prevention of surgical adhesions 4% icodextrin solution Baxter Worldwide Extraneal Peritoneal dialysis Solution containing icodextrin Baxter Worldwide Asmasal Asthma Salbutamol delivered in Clickhaler UCB Europe Asmabec Asthma Beclometasone delivered in Clickhaler UCB Europe Budesonide Clickhaler Asthma Budesonide delivered in Clickhaler Merck Generics Europe Formoterol Clickhaler Asthma Formoterol delivered in Clickhaler Merck Generics Europe Meptin Clickhaler Asthma Procaterol delivered in Clickhaler Otsuka Japan Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 11 Business review products continued bronchodilator and, with convenient onceRespiratory development daily dosing, has the potential to improve products compliance and address a large and unmet need for COPD sufferers.
NVA237 and QVA149 for chronic Novartis has made substantial progress in obstructive pulmonary disease COPD the development of NVA237 and QVA149, NVA237 is a dry powder formulation for with both due to start Phase III clinical trials oral inhalation of glycopyrronium bromide, in 2009.
We also expect Novartis to present a long-acting muscarinic antagonist LAMA the Phase II QVA149 data during 2009. with a rapid onset of activity.
Data from the Phase II NVA237 trial were NVA237 was licensed to Novartis in April presented at the annual congress of the 2005 by Vectura and its co-development European Respiratory Society ERS in Berlin partner, Sosei Group Corporation Sosei.
The data demonstrate Novartis intends to launch NVA237 as a that NVA237 provides sustained 24-hour once-daily monotherapy for COPD and as a bronchodilation in patients with moderatecombination with Novartiss once-daily, to-severe COPD and showed similar 1 long-acting beta-agonist LABA, efficacy and duration of action to Spiriva indacaterol, which was filed for approval 2 with the potential for a more rapid onset with the regulatory authorities as a of action.
In addition, studies lasting up to 1 Vectura has the complete range of monotherapy treatment for COPD at the device and formulation expertise to 28 days showed that NVA237 was safe and end of 2008.
The combination of NVA237 take an active pharmaceutical well-tolerated, with no clinically relevant ingredient and deliver a finished and indacaterol is known as QVA149.
inhaled pharmaceutical product adverse events.
2 GyroHaler is suitable for the delivery COPD is a chronic obstruction of the of a wide range of pharmaceuticals Another important outcome from the ERS airways that affects 210 million people meeting in October 2008 was the worldwide and is projected to be the third publication of the tiotropium Spiriva leading cause of death by 2030.
It is a safety database from approximately progressive lung disease with symptoms 20,000 patients.
This meta-analysis, which including chronic bronchitis and or included the prospectively designed UPLIFT emphysema, which slowly progresses and study Understanding Potential Long-term eventually leads to a largely irreversible Impacts on Function with Tiotropium, loss of lung function.
While there is no demonstrated the cardiovascular safety of cure, bronchodilators such as LAMAs make tiotropium and, in our view, allays any breathing easier by enlarging the patients concerns over cardiovascular safety for airways, and are recognised in this class of drug.
international guidelines as an integral part of the treatment for COPD.
NDA submissions are expected to be filed for both NVA237 and QVA149 in 2011.
To date, Vectura has received $15m and, under the terms of the agreement with VR315 for asthma COPD Novartis, could receive up to $172.5m for Combination therapy for asthma is the achieving clinical, regulatory and biggest and fastest-growing sector of the commercialisation targets for both the asthma market, with annual sales of monotherapy and combination product.
In addition, royalties on product sales will VR315 is an inhaled combination therapy be received for both products.
If additional for asthma and COPD that is being jointly combination products are developed by developed with Sandoz, the generics division Novartis using NVA237, then further of Novartis, using Vecturas GyroHaler Dry milestones and royalties will be receivable.
Vectura QVA149 is one of the most advanced licensed the European rights for VR315 to once-daily LAMA LABA combinations in Sandoz in March 2006, in a deal worth up development and Vectura believes that to 22.5m in milestones and development it could be the first such combination to funding, together with royalties on all come to market for COPD.
The dual activity products sold.
Rights in the US were licensed of a muscarinic antagonist and a betato Sandoz in December 2006 in a profitadrenergic agonist promises to be a potent sharing agreement, which includes the Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 12 Respiratory disease affects an increasing number of people of all ages.
Asthma and COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease markets are forecast to grow rapidly, achieving sales in 2011 of $21bn and $11bn respectively payment of up to $63m in milestones to VR632 for asthma COPD In April 2006, Vectura agreed a nonVectura.
Sandoz has since invested over VR632 is a second inhaled combination exclusive, worldwide collaboration, $50m in manufacturing facilities for VR315 therapy for asthma and COPD that is being development and licence agreement with and VR632.
jointly developed with Sandoz, and is Boehringer Ingelheim to develop a fully delivered using GyroHaler.
The device will With more key respiratory drugs coming licensed the European rights for VR632 to be available to Boehringer Ingelheim for off patent over the coming years and with Sandoz in December 2007 in a deal worth the development and marketing of its increasing pressure on the regulatory up to 15.5m in milestones and proprietary respiratory medicines for the authorities to approve lower cost drugs, development funding, together with treatment of respiratory diseases such as both programmes have significant financial royalties on all products sold.
Vectura will asthma and COPD.
Vectura received a also earn a margin on the commercial 2.5m 2.2m milestone payment from Boehringer Ingelheim is one of the worlds manufacture and supply of GyroHaler Sandoz in April 2009 and expects to leading companies developing therapies to devices.
Vectura retains rights for the US receive a further 7.5m in milestones from treat asthma and COPD.
Its COPD therapy and other un-licensed territories.
its EU collaboration, and up to $30m from Spiriva is the most prescribed COPD its US collaboration prior to the launch of Boehringer Ingelheim collaboration on medicine worldwide, with sales in excess VR315 in these regions.
Revenues will also a DPI of $3bn in 2008. be earned on all product sales in the EU Most treatments for asthma and COPD are Vectura has received a total of 37.5m and from a profit share in the US.
DPIs are increasingly 31.2m in equity investment and will also earn a margin on the commercial the preferred choice for patients with these milestone payments from Boehringer manufacture and supply of GyroHaler and conditions and it is expected that DPIs will Ingelheim to date, the latest receipt being retains rights for un-licensed territories.
be used to deliver the majority of the drugs 7.5m 6.2m in November 2008. sold in these markets by 2011.
Vectura Boehringer Ingelheim will be responsible believes that its device and formulation for further development, manufacturing technologies are well placed to capture a and clinical trial use of the DPI with its significant market share.
proprietary compounds, as well as the commercialisation of these products.
Vectura will receive development milestones and royalties on sales of each product marketed in the device.
Our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim has added significantly to our intellectual property portfolio and provided Vectura with an excellent DPI platform to deliver further value from its inhaled therapy technologies through other collaborations.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 13 Business review products continued VR496 for cystic fibrosis CF with can proceed on schedule.
The second 1 2 potential for asthma and or COPD Duohaler project is currently on hold and 1 Duohaler fixed combination therapy VR496 is being developed as an inhaled, will be reinitiated if interest is received multi-dose reservoir DPI locally acting treatment for CF, and has the from new partners.
2 Vecturas new Cleanroom, opened potential to be developed as a therapy for in April 2009 2.3m of milestone income generated patients with other airway diseases such as from both of these projects, which was asthma and COPD.
The active component potentially repayable under certain of VR496 is heparin, a drug that has been circumstances, is no longer repayable and approved worldwide as an injected or has been released from deferred income to infused treatment for other indications.
Vectura has initiated a Phase II clinical study The Duohaler device provides advantages with VR496 in CF patients.
If the data prove over some multi-dose DPIs.
It has two to be positive in CF, Vectura intends to separate drug reservoirs that feed two progress the product for this indication.
individual drug formulations to two separate A significant literature database describes metering chambers from which the drugs the multi-modal and complementary are delivered to the user in a single pharmacological properties of inhaled inhalation, avoiding co-formulation issues.
heparin that are relevant to the treatment of CF, asthma and COPD, with mucolytic, We believe that the Duohaler lead anti-inflammatory, bronchodilatory and product in development has the ability anti-infective activity being particularly to capture an attractive share of the relevant.
Vectura will look to find a partner European and other generic markets for the larger indications.
and we look forward to the licensing discussions progressing.
The European Medicines Evaluation Agency EMEA and US Food and Drug Budesonide Clickhaler for asthma Administration FDA have granted VR496 in Japan orphan drug status.
An undisclosed Japanese pharmaceutical company that had an exclusive licence to Duohaler for asthma COPD the Clickhaler for use with budesonide in An undisclosed pharmaceutical company Japan has decided to no longer sell that had an exclusive agreement for the products in the respiratory market.
The development, marketing and distribution company has therefore returned all rights in Europe of two Duohaler products, has to Vectura, including access to the reviewed its portfolio of products following Phase III data generated to date.
As a result of this product is now available for licensing to review, the company is working to find other third parties.
a new partner for these projects and will continue to assist in the funding of the lead programme so that the development Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 14 VR004 for erectile dysfunction ED and in the US since October 2006.
Vectura Other development VR776 for premature ejaculation PE signed a global licence deal with Baxter in products Vectura is seeking licensing partners for December 2005 for the manufacture and these products.
There is no expenditure in distribution of Adept.
VR040 for Parkinsons disease PD relation to these projects in the year to Asmasal and Asmabec for asthma VR040 is an inhaled, systemically acting 31 March 2009 and no future expenditure Asmasal and Asmabec are Clickhaler product for the treatment of off episodes will be incurred.
Asmasal contains associated with advanced PD.
The active salbutamol, a short-acting beta-2 agonist ingredient in VR040, apomorphine Marketed products for the quick relief of asthma symptoms.
hydrochloride, has been approved Asmabec contains beclomethasone, an previously as an injectable formulation ADVATE for haemophilia A inhaled steroid used as standard in Europe, and more recently in the US, In 2000, Baxter was granted worldwide preventative therapy for asthma.
Asmasal for treating off episodes.
VR040 is rights to use Vecturas stabilisation patents and Asmabec are marketed by UCB SA in Vecturas formulation of apomorphine, and has utilised the technology in its the UK, France and Ireland.
Clickhaler is delivered by inhalation using Vecturas serum-free recombinant Factor VIII, Vecturas proprietary reservoir DPI device.
ADVATE is indicated for the Budesonide Clickhaler and Formoterol The EMEA has granted VR040 orphan drug treatment of haemophilia A and is Clickhaler for asthma status.
Vectura is using the EMEA Scientific marketed worldwide by Baxter.
Vectura These are Clickhaler based products Advice procedure to progress the receives royalties on sales of ADVATE, containing budesonide and formoterol development of the product.
which have increased to over US$1.5bn in respectively.
Budesonide is a steroid used 2008, compared to US$1.2bn in 2007.
The successful results of a Phase IIa proofas standard preventative therapy for There is strong demand for ADVATE, of-concept clinical study for VR040 were asthma.
Formoterol is a long-acting beta-2 and Baxter continues to differentiate the reported in August 2006.
In October 2007, agonist with a fast onset of action and product with various dosage forms, making Vectura announced successful completion longer duration than salbutamol, it easier for patients to administer higher of a second Phase II clinical study of VR040 benefiting sufferers with more severe doses from fewer vials and to reduce the in patients with PD.
Mylan Inc, our licensing total infusion time.
Growth of ADVATE sales demonstrated that VR040 is safe and wellpartner for these products, has received has continued to exceed our expectations tolerated.
Following treatment with VR040, regulatory approvals for budesonide in as patients switch from plasma-based and patients successfully and rapidly recover Germany, The Netherlands and New other competing products in Europe and from an induced off episode: this effect Zealand: with regulatory approvals for the US.
Baxter recently announced that it was also durable.
Vectura believes that formoterol received in Denmark, The has established the leadership position in delivery of apomorphine by inhalation will Netherlands, South Africa and New Japan for recombinant Factor VIII.
We expect allow patients to experience benefits Zealand.
No further approvals are to see further growth from increased beyond those offered by current products.
expected for these products in the near compliance, establishing prophylaxis as the future.
0.9m of milestone revenue was Vectura initiated a Phase II at-home standard of care and the global penetration released from deferred income in relation study at the end of 2008 and intends to of the therapy.
to these products during 2008 09. out-license VR040 before the start of Phase III trials.
Extraneal for peritoneal dialysis Meptin Clickhaler for asthma Extraneal is a peritoneal dialysis solution Otsuka Pharmaceuticals, in Japan, has VR147 for migraine containing icodextrin, licensed to Baxter in licensed the Clickhaler technology from VR147 is an orally inhaled DPI formulation 1996 and marketed by Baxter worldwide.
Vectura to deliver its short-acting beta-2 of a triptan that offers the potential to The product has been launched in over agonist Meptin procaterol for the quick provide a rapid onset of action, and so 45 countries including, in 2003, the US relief of mild, intermittent asthma provide early symptomatic relief for and Japanese markets.
In April 2008, Vectura royalties on the sales of Extraneal in the announced the successful completion of an Other Clickhaler opportunities US, Japan and the rest of the world.
The data Vectura continues to explore licensing Adept for prevention of surgical demonstrated that VR147 is safe and well opportunities for Clickhaler products in adhesions tolerated.
Vectura is exploring out-licensing other countries.
Vectura supplies the Adept is a 4% icodextrin solution used opportunities for VR147.
Clickhaler devices to licensees and earns during surgery to reduce post-surgical a margin on these device sales.
adhesions, a frequent and major complication following gynaecological and other abdominal surgery.
It has been used for this purpose in Europe since 2000 and Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 15
