Board of Directors John Patrick Jack Cashman Christopher Paul Blackwell BSc PhD Anne Philomena Hyland BBS FCA FITI Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary Jack Cashman, aged 68, joined the Board of Vectura as NonDr Chris Blackwell, 47, was appointed Chief Executive of Executive Chairman in 2001 and is a member of both the Vectura in February 2004.
He joined the Group in 2002 as Anne Hyland, 48, was appointed Chief Financial Officer, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Cashman Chief Operations Officer and Executive Director.
Prior to Company Secretary and Executive Director of Vectura in brings significant experience to the Board of Vectura, Vectura he was Director of Drug Development and an March 2002.
Prior to this she was a Director of Corporate having held a variety of senior executive-level roles in Executive Director at Scotia Pharmaceuticals Ltd, which he Finance at Celltech Group plc.
Other positions held at Celltech business and having been a Board member for several joined in 1998.
He was previously at Hoffmann-La Roche included Group Financial Controller and Finance Director for companies in both North America and Europe.
Jack is specialising in project management and becoming UK the Celltech Medeva UK Division.
She joined Celltech following currently a Director of Transat AT Inc. Canada and a Director, Global Project Management, and Glaxo Research and the merger with Medeva plc, where she was Finance Director Director of Telesat Inc. Canada.
He is the former Chairman Development as a Clinical Pharmacologist.
Chris trained as a for the UK Division.
Previously she was the Medeva Group and joint-Chief Executive Officer of RP Scherer Corporation research scientist at the University of Bath, where in 1988 he Financial Controller where, through a period of rapid growth, and participated in its leveraged buyout and privatisation completed his doctorate investigating free radicals and she was responsible for managing treasury, tax, internal and and its subsequent successful flotation on the New York reperfusion-induced arrhythmias.
In July 2006, Chris was external reporting, and acquisition and disposal activity.
RP Scherer was later acquired by Cardinal appointed Non-Executive Director of AGI Therapeutics plc, a joined Medeva from KPMG, London, where she was an audit Health Inc. His early career was spent in the field of speciality pharmaceutical company focused on manager and gained exposure to corporate finance, advisory filtration and industrial mineral products.
During that time, gastrointestinal drug products.
She has a Business Studies degree he took on successively more senior roles in marketing, from Trinity College, Dublin, and is a Fellow of the Institute of operations and general management in the UK, Europe, Chartered Accountants, Ireland and a Fellow of the Institute of Canada and USA.
With this experience, he decided to Taxation, Ireland.
pursue an entrepreneurial career in the industrial and healthcare sectors.
Susan Elizabeth Foden MA DPhil Andrew John McGlashan Richards John Robert Brown BSc PhD MBA FRSE Non-Executive Director BA MA Cantab MSc PhD CChem Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Dr Susan Foden, 56, joined the Board of Vectura as a NonExecutive Director in January 2007.
She chairs the Dr Andy Richards, 49, joined the Board of Vectura as a NonDr John Brown, 54, joined the Board of Vectura as NonRemuneration Committee and is a member of the Audit and Executive Director in 2000 and is a member of the Audit, Executive Director and Senior Independent Director in 2004 Nomination Committees.
She holds a number of NonNomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is an and chairs the Audit and Nomination Committees as well as Executive Directorships with both public and private established biotechnology entrepreneur and business angel, being a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is companies and public funding bodies in the biotech and focusing on founding, investing in and growing biotechnology Chairman of BTG plc and CXR Biosciences Ltd and is a Nonhealthcare field, including Source Bioscience plc, Cell Centric and healthcare companies.
He has broad experience of the UK Executive Director of Axis-Shield plc.
From 1999 until May Ltd, Cizzle Ltd, Rainbow Seed Fund Cascade Ltd, Oxford biotechnology sector in research, drug development and in 2008 John was Chairman of the Governing Council of the Ancestors Ltd, and is a Trustee of The Institute of Cancer building commercial relationships.
He is Chairman of Altacor Roslin Institute in Edinburgh and is now Chairman of the Research.
Prior to this Susan held positions in venture capital Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of Aitua Ltd, Arecor Ltd, Roslin Foundation.
He is Chairman of BIA Scotland, a member and UK biotech companies.
From 2000 to 2003 she was an Biowisdom Ltd, Babraham Bioscience Technology Ltd, Cancer of the UK Technology Strategy Board, and an advisor to Investor Director with the London-based venture capital firm Research Technology Ltd the commercial arm of Cancer several private equity and venture capital funds.
Until late Merlin Biosciences Limited, and was Chief Executive Officer of Research UK, Theradeas Ltd and Summit Corporation plc.
He 2003, John was Chief Executive of Acambis plc, a leading the technology transfer company Cancer Research Campaign is also a founder member of the Cambridge Angels, a director producer of vaccines to treat and prevent infectious disease.
She studied biochemistry of the BIA BioIndustry Association, a member of BBSRC John is an Honorary Professor of Edinburgh University and is at the University of Oxford from where she obtained an MA Council and member of the UKTI Lifesciences strategy a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
In 1992, he co-founded Chiroscience and was Business Development Director through to its merger in 1999 with Celltech.
Originally a protein chemist, Andy spent his early career with ICI now AstraZeneca and with PA Technology.
Andy has a PhD in Chemistry.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 26
