Business review capabilities Quality Quality in a pharmaceutical product development environment ensures that the products produced and the data intended to support regulatory submissions are generated in compliance with Good Manufacturing Practice GMP, Good Laboratory Practice GLP and Good Clinical Practice GCP, collectively referred to as GxP.
Vectura has a Manufacturers Authorisation for Investigational Medicinal Products, MIA IMP 20066 from the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency MHRA.
An MIA IMP is a requirement Pharmaceutical Development of the EU Clinical Trials Directive, now embodied in national legislation, and allows development services Vecturas Development team has for manufacture, assembly and release demonstrated its ability to develop Vecturas pharmaceutical development of clinical trial supplies by the Groups products through stages of pre-clinical and services revenues are generated by Qualified Person.
The team supports providing specialist product development the development of Vecturas own Vectura is also certified under ISO services to other pharmaceutical products as well as those developed on 13485:2003 Medical devices.
In order companies, primarily licensing partners, behalf of other companies.
Key functions to achieve the ISO 13485 certification, to continue the development of products include liaising with thought-leaders, Vecturas device engineering and contract or technologies licensed from Vectura until clinical investigators and experts in the manufacturing processes were inspected complete transfer has been achieved.
design of clinical trials and associated by an authorised quality standards pre-clinical development programmes, organisation Lloyds Register Quality Commercial and business and the selection and management of Assurance, which found the quality development specialist respiratory and other clinical system to be of sufficiently high standard research organisations CROs responsible to allow Vectura to self-certify its inhaler Vecturas Commercial team, responsible for for conducting clinical trials.
devices as being fit for market use business development and licensing, in Europe.
maintains good relationships with Regulatory affairs international pharmaceutical companies and undertakes market analysis for all products The Regulatory team at Vectura is under development.
In addition, the team experienced in global pharmaceutical provides the market analysis and competitor product registration and inhaled product information that is required to identify development.
The Regulatory team valuable new product opportunities.
The provides regulatory support for Vecturas major licensing deals Vectura has concluded own programmes and for those of its to date demonstrate the strength of the partners, and works closely with all Groups commercial and business functions within Vectura, advising on development skills.
regulatory strategy and data requirements to ensure timely approvals.
The team is responsible for the preparation and maintenance of Clinical Trial Authorisations CTAs and Marketing Authorisations MAs and preparation of responses to questions on a worldwide basis as required.
Submission of dossiers and liaison with individual regulatory authorities 1 2 3 is also undertaken as appropriate.
1 GyroHaler multi-dose passive DPI with sealed foil blisters 2 Vectura's blister-filling machine in operation 3 Vectura adheres to GxP at all times Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 17 Business review capabilities continued Manufacturing operations Intellectual property Facilities The Manufacturing Operations team is Vecturas intellectual property is a valuable Vectura currently operates from three responsible for the late-stage development asset that underpins its past, present and leased facilities in the UK.
The first of these of Vecturas respiratory products, and future success.
The Group aims to secure is an approximately 50,000 square-foot ensures that such products can be multi-layered registered protection for its laboratory, office and manufacturing validated and commercialised successfully products, processes and technology facility in Chippenham, Wiltshire.
This in client or contract manufacturing platforms, which has the potential to facility is approved for GMP manufacturing facilities.
The team is responsible for global provide highly effective protection.
of Investigational Medicinal Products for supply chain operations as Vecturas clinical trials.
Vecturas Nottingham facility Vecturas patent portfolio includes in products are distributed worldwide.
comprises approximately 30,000 square excess of 100 families of patents and feet of laboratories and offices.
On the Vecturas strategy is to produce clinical patent applications, covering inventions Cambridge Science Park, Vectura occupies trials supplies up to pilot-plant scale.
made by the Groups researchers as well a 4,200 square-foot laboratory and device The Group then uses contract as inventions the Group has acquired or engineering unit.
manufacturing organisations for largerlicensed from third parties.
The Group scale manufacturing for late-stage actively protects and maintains this development and commercial supply, patent estate.
as well as for some smaller-scale Additional value continues to be obtained manufacturing where it is more from Vecturas intellectual property estate economical to do so.
from licensing its rights for the development of non-pulmonary products, for example, Baxter International Inc. and its subsidiaries are licensed to use certain of Vecturas patents for ADVATE, Adept and Extraneal products, which are sold on the market.
4 1 2 3 1 Vecturas strength lies in its specialism: the knowledge, experience and technical capabilities to develop inhaled pharmaceutical products 2 Vecturas committed and motivated workforce is constantly looking to innovate and evolve 3 The active pharmaceutical API needs to be formulated so it can be inhaled to reach the targeted area of the lung 4 Vectura has one of only a handful of facilities globally that has been specifically designed to manufacture inhaled products Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 18 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 19
