Executive management Timothy Wright BSc PhD MBA Martin John Shott PhD MRPharmS Mark Jonathan Main BSc PhD Commercial Director Pharmaceutical Operations Director Development Director Dr Tim Wright, 48, joined Vectura as Commercial Director in Dr Martin Shott, 57, joined Vectura as Pharmaceutical Dr Mark Main, 49, joined Vectura as Development Director in March 2005.
Prior to joining Vectura he gained a breadth of Operations Director in October 2002 with a wide range of May 2004.
Prior to joining Vectura he was with Powderject experience in business development and licensing in a experience from within the pharmaceutical industry.
Prior to Pharmaceuticals, which he joined in 2001 to lead multinumber of senior roles at BTG plc, latterly as Vice President joining Vectura he worked for four years at Innovata Biomed disciplinary development teams for both drug delivery and Business Development and Licensing, Oncology, and as as Associate Director of Research and Development.
Martin vaccine products involving all aspects of the drug device Director of Business Development at DevCo Pharmaceuticals, has gained extensive experience in the UK and Europe development process.
He was previously with Sterling Winthrop where he was successful in building a portfolio of working as a senior manager at several companies, including in 1986 and subsequently Parke-Davis, Ipsen International, and neuroscience development candidates.
Between 1986 and Lers-Synthelabo and Ciba-Geigy later Novartis, where he Scotia Pharmaceuticals, gaining extensive experience of clinical 1999 Tim held a number of management positions at managed the global DPI development unit based in the UK.
He development and project management in the areas of GlaxoWellcome Research and Development, both in Clinical trained as a research scientist, during which time he cardiovascular and oncological treatment.
Mark trained as a Pharmacology and Medical Operations, and in project investigated the compression of pharmaceutical powders for research scientist at St George's Hospital Medical School, where management at Simbec Research Limited.
Tim trained as a a PhD at Nottingham University, while continuing to work in he gained his doctorate investigating the prevention of research scientist at London University, obtaining a PhD in the industry.
He is a member of the Royal Pharmaceutical ischaemia-induced damage of the mammalian myocardium.
He was awarded an MBA from Society of Great Britain.
London Business Schools Executive Programme in 1994.
Stephen William Eason BSc Eng Colin Clive Dalton BTech PhD Director of Device Development Director of Intellectual Property and Corporate Affairs Stephen Eason, 51, joined Vectura as Director of Device Development in February 2002 when the Aspirair inhaler Dr Colin Dalton, 59, joined Vectura as Director of IP and technology and staff were acquired from Cambridge Corporate Affairs in January 2007 when Innovata plc was Consultants Ltd CCL, where he was an associate director.
He was previously Corporate Development Director had previously initiated and led the Aspirair development with Innovata and Quadrant Healthcare Limited, a formulation programme at CCL and has subsequently initiated and led company acquired by Innovata.
For five years prior to joining the GyroHaler development programme for Vectura.
While Quadrant he was Director of Business Development at GSK at CCL Stephen carried out significant product developments Biologicals where he managed a group responsible for in the areas of inhalation, injection and infusion products.
licensing new products and technologies, collaborations and Prior to joining CCL, Stephen worked for seven years as a alliances.
He previously worked in business development at design and development engineer within the manufacturing Quadrant and British Sugar plc and was a senior consultant in industry, first with the TI Group and then with Baxter the biotechnology practice at PA Consulting.
Stephen studied Mechanical Engineering at the career as a fermentation scientist at BP Co Ltd.
He trained as Imperial College of Science and Technology, London.
an applied biologist at Brunel University and obtained a PhD in 1977 at Leicester University.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 27
