Business review core purpose, strategy and values We set ourselves challenging goals Vecturas core purpose Vecturas main values To establish a world-class speciality pharmaceuticals company that improves the quality Achievement of patients lives and is driven by the enthusiasm and commitment of our staff.
Our success depends on satisfying the needs of our customers.
We set ourselves We will create value for ourselves and our shareholders centred on the innovative challenging goals and we are proud of development of products targeting the lungs.
Enthusiasm Vecturas strategy is to target the treatment of diseases We welcome enthusiastic people who associated with the lungs give their best and encourage others to do the same.
We take our work seriously The Group has a broad clinical portfolio that combines valuable mid and late-stage and value what we do, but we also want programmes with high-potential, earlier-stage opportunities and has a wide range of to enjoy what we are doing.
device and formulation technologies addressing large and fast-growing market sectors.
Participation The respiratory development pipeline comprises inhaled formulations of both branded We can be successful only by working and generic products for the treatment of asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary together.
We want everyone to share disease and cystic fibrosis.
in that success, so we support and Vectura seeks value from its other pipeline products through out-licensing encourage our colleagues.
We are also Vectura has developed therapies for indications such as Parkinsons disease and keen to protect the flexibility and migraine, which it is actively seeking to out-license.
informality of the Group as we grow.
Vecturas goal is to be a cash-generative business that creates value for its Innovation shareholders through: We want people to think freely and creatively about what we are trying its intellectual property and expertise in inhaled product development, which to achieve.
allows Vectura to: out-license products to major pharmaceutical companies in return for revenues Trust and respect from milestones and royalties We want to work in an atmosphere of develop or co-develop specialty products to regulatory approval or beyond, to mutual trust and respect where people capture maximum value from licensing at a later stage of development or from and ideas are valued on their merits, sales revenues and where we recognise the contribution and achievements of entering into technology collaborations with pharmaceutical company partners everyone in the business.
to exploit both the generic and branded markets for the joint development of high-value inhaled product opportunities, and continuing to build its franchise through internal innovation as well as exploring opportunities for the acquisition of products, technologies or businesses that support these goals.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 09 Business review markets Inhalation market why deliver drugs to the lungs?
Delivering drugs directly to their site of action in the lungs often results in fewer systemic side-effects and generally requires lower doses.
Respiratory market The majority of treatments for asthma and Inhaled fixed-dose combination therapy COPD are delivered by inhalation, with requires the combination usually of two many sufferers taking more than one type drugs at fixed doses with the aim of of therapy.
Most drugs that are used to providing optimal clinical benefits for the treat respiratory disease are designed to patient.
An example is Seretide Advair work in the lung, with relatively little active salmeterol fluticasone, marketed by drug passing into the bloodstream.
GlaxoSmithKline GSK, which is now the fourth-biggest selling pharmaceutical The asthma and COPD markets comprise product worldwide with sales of $7.7bn the third-fastest growing therapeutic in 2008.
Fixed-dose combination therapy targets with 21 million people suffering is likely to remain fundamental to the from asthma in the USA alone and are treatment of both asthma and COPD, and forecast to continue to grow rapidly, sales of such products is seen as a major achieving sales in 2011 of $21bn and driver for growth in the respiratory market.
This growth is being driven by two main trends: the use of The COPD market is less well developed fixed-dose combinations, and more than that for asthma.
It is estimated that targeted and effective therapies.
up to 50% of Americans and 75% of Europeans with COPD are undiagnosed.
Treatments for COPD, such as Spiriva tiotropium, have made an important therapeutic contribution and are driving growth forecasts.
Spiriva sales for 2008 were in excess of $3bn.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 10
