OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Board Executive Committee 37 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Executive Committee Tarun Jain for Vedantas Aluminum business at in the areas of accounting, finance and Director of Finance, Sterlite BALCO since December 2006.
Prior to becoming Managing Mr Jain is also a director of BALCO, to that, Mr Suri was the Senior Vice Director of Sesa in April 2006, he was the MALCO and HZL.
He is also responsible President Operations and Head of the Finance Director.
He has a total industry for strategic financial matters at Group new Korba smelter from September experience of 30 years.
Mr Jain has been with Sterlite since 2004 to December 2006.
Mr Suri has is member of The Institute of Chartered 1984 and is a graduate of the Institute held positions in Indian Aluminum Accountants of India and The Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Company Limited, CEAT Ltd and of Cost and Works Accountants of India.
a member of the Institute of Chartered Goodyear South Asia Tyres Pvt Ltd.
He Accountants of India and the Institute has a Masters of Chemistry from the CV Krishnan of Company Secretaries of India.
India Institute of Technology, Delhi.
Managing Director, Commercial Power business DD Jalan Rajagopal Kishore Kumar Mr Krishnan is also responsible for Chief Financial Officer, Vedanta Resources Chief Executive Of cer, the Groups Business Development Mr Jalan joined Sterlite in 2001 as Copper & Zinc business including M&A.
Prior to that, President Australian Operations, Mr Kumar joined the Group in April Mr Krishnan was the Chief Executive and was responsible for TCM and 2003 as Vice President Marketing for Of cer and Managing Director of CMT mines.
He has over 30 years of Hindustan Zinc Limited.
Prior to joining the group in May experience with various companies Vice President Marketing for our 1999, Mr Krishnan has over 30 years of in the engineering, mining and noncopper India division from June 2004 work experience and has held senior ferrous metal sectors.
Prior to joining positions in Larsen & Toubro Limited, associated with the Aditya Birla Group the Group, Mr Kumar was employed Essar, DCM.
Mr Krishnan has a Bachelor in various capacities from 1978 to 2000. by Hindustan Lever Ltd for 12 years.
of Technology from the Indian Institute Mr Jalan is a member of the Institute Mr Kumar is a member of the Institute of Technology, Chennai and a Masters of of Chartered Accountants of India.
of Chartered Accountants of India.
Business Administration from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
MS Mehta Jeyakumar Janakaraj Chief Executive Of cer, Director Operations, KCM Dilip Golani Vedanta Resources Mr Janakaraj is responsible for overall President, Management Mr Mehta has joined the Group in 2000. operations of KCM and also heading Assurance Function Prior to moving as CEO of HZL, he was copper and zinc sector projects Mr Golani joined the Group in 2000 as the Commercial Director Base Metals across the Group.
He joined Sterlite the Head of Management Assurance responsible for the marketing of copper, Industries Copper sector in 1995 Department.
Mr Golani has a Bachelor aluminum, zinc and lead, procurement as Mechanical Engineer.
He has been of Engineering from Motilal National of copper concentrate, export and associated with Essar Steel from 1992 Institute of Technology, Allahabad tolling of zinc concentrate and coal to 1995 and holds Bachelor Degree and a Post-Graduate Diploma in procurement.
Prior to joining this in Mechanical Engineering from PGS Industrial Engineering from the National group, Mr Mehta has worked for about College of Technology, Coimbatore.
20 years in the steel sector.
Mr Mehta Prior to joining the group in April 2000, is a Mechanical Engineer and holds Akhilesh Joshi Dilip was working with Unilever as Management Degree from the Indian Chief Operating Of cer, member of the Unilever Corporate Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
Hindustan Zinc Limited Audit Team responsible for auditing Mr Joshi is responsible for the zinc Unilever group companies in Central Mr M Siddiqi business operations at HZL and joined Asia, Middle East and Africa Region.
Whole Time Director, VAL and Chief the company in 1976.
Prior to moving Executive Of cer, Aluminium Business as COO of HZL, he was Sr. VP Mines, A Thirunavukkarasu Mr Siddiqi manages the Aluminium responsible for the overall operations President, Group Human Resources business of Vedanta.
He joined of all mining units at HZL.
Mr Joshi has a Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Group in Vedanta in 1991, responsible for Mining Engineering degree from MBM April 2004 as General Manager HR.
He moved to Engineering College, Jodhpur and a became Senior Vice President HR for the Copper smelter and re nery at Post Graduate Diploma in Economic our Copper Division heading the human Tuticorin and subsequently to the Evaluation of Mining Projects from resources, total quality management, Aluminium business at Korba where School of Mines of Paris.
He also has a corporate social responsibility and he was responsible for the overall first class Mine Managers Certi cate public relation functions, prior to commissioning of the Korba plant of Competency.
He is the recipient becoming the Head of Group Human as Project Director.
Prior to joining of National Mineral Award GOI in Resources in July 2007.
He held positions the group, Mr Siddiqi held senior 2006 for his outstanding contribution in English Electric, Hindustan Lever positions in Hindustan Copper Limited.
in the eld of Mining Technology.
and TVS Electronics before joining Mr Siddiqi received his Bachelors our Group.
He holds a Bachelor degree in Mechanical Engineering P K Mukherjee degree in Literature and Masters from the Indian Institute of Chief Executive Of cer, degree in Social Work with Personnel Technology, New Delhi.
Iron Ore Business Management and Organisational Mr. Mukherjee is the managing director behaviour as his specialization.
Pramod Suri and chief executive of cer of our iron CEO, Aluminum Business Operations.
He joined Sesa Mr Suri is also the Whole time Director Goa in 1987 as a Manager and has held of Balco.
Mr Suri has been responsible various positions within the company
