Corporate Governance 52 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Directors Report Information Location in the Annual Report Page The Directors present this Annual Report on the business of the Group, together with the financial statements and Key Performance Indicators Business Review 06 Description of the principal auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2009. risks and uncertainties facing the Group Financial Review 28 Principal Activities Strategy Chairmans Statement and Vedanta Resources plc is the UK parent company of a Business Review 04 diversi ed metals and mining group.
The four major areas of Future developments Business Review 08 activity are as follows: Review of operations Business Review 08 Financial Review Financial Review 24 Aluminium: bauxite mining, alumina re ning and Environmental matters Sustainable Development Report 32 aluminium smelting operations in India.
Health and safety matters Sustainable Development Report 32 Copper: smelting and re ning operations in India, copper Community issues Sustainable Development Report 32 ore mining in Australia and an integrated copper production operation in Zambia.
The Business Review also includes details of the main trends Zinc: zinc-lead mining and smelting operations in India.
and factors likely to affect the future development, Iron ore: Iron ore mine in India.
performance and position of the Companys business, an indication of its activities in the eld of research and Analysis of revenue, operating pro t, principal activities and development, details of the key performance indicators that geographical origins appears in note 3 of the financial management use and information about persons with whom statements and a list of the principal subsidiaries and the Company has contractual or other arrangements that are associated undertakings of the Group may be found in note 38 essential to the business of the Company.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and Financial There have been no signi cant events since the Balance Sheet Review, which together give a fair view of the historic and likely date.
future developments of the operations of the Group, should be read in conjunction with the Directors Report.
These sections Dividends together with the sections referred to in the Business Review The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended section below form part of this Directors Report.
31 March 2009 of 25 US cents per ordinary share 2008: 25 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders There are no material changes from 31 March 2009 to the date approving this recommendation at the Annual General of this report except as disclosed.
Meeting on 27 July 2009, the final dividend will be paid on 5 August 2009 to shareholders on the register of members as Business Review at 10 July 2009.
The Company is required under Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to provide a business review the purpose of which is Taken together with the interim dividend of 16.5 US cents per to inform the shareholders how the Directors have performed ordinary share paid to shareholders on 14 January 2009, the their duty to promote the success of the Company for the total dividend for the year is 41.5 US cents per ordinary share bene t of its members.
The information that ful ls the 2008: 41.5 US cents per ordinary share.
requirements of the business review, including principal risks and uncertainties, can be found within the following sections, which are incorporated in this report by reference: OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 53 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Directors The names, speci c responsibilities and biographical details of the current Board of Directors are shown on page 36.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in the shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 51.
The following Directors held of ce during the year ended 31 March 2009: Appointed Resigned Designation Executive Directors AK Agarwal 16 May 2003 Executive Chairman N Agarwal 24 November 2004 Deputy Executive Chairman MS Mehta 1 October 2008 Chief Executive Non-executive Directors N Chandra 18 May 2004 Non-executive Director A Mehta 24 November 2004 Non-executive Director ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 Non-executive Director Former Directors KK Kaura 23 March 2005 30 September 2008 Chief Executive SK Tamotia 24 November 2004 6 March 2009 Non-executive Director Directors Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors other than alternate Directors shall not be subject to any maximum, but shall not be less than two.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 38.
Retirement of Directors The Companys Articles require that at every Annual General Meeting one-third of the Directors, or if their number is not three or multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third, shall retire from of ce.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who have been longest in of ce since appointment or re-appointment.
Accordingly Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Naresh Chandra will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
Mr MS Mehta will stand for election at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment to the Board on 1 October 2008.
Directors Remuneration Details of Directors service contracts and emoluments, options to subscribe for shares in the Company and interests its share capital are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 49.
Corporate Governance Disclosures on the application of the principles and compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code can be found on pages 38 to 44.
Employees Information on the Groups employees and its policies can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 32 to 35.
Charitable Donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations of US$0.86 million paid to the Sterlite Foundation 2008: US$0.6 million and other charitable donations of US$1.52million 2008: US$2.9 million.
Further details about the Groups involvement with local communities during the year can be found in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 32 to 35.
UK and EU Political Donations It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary companies may, under any circumstances, make donations or contributions to political organisations within the United Kingdom or European Union.
In exceptional circumstances where such political donations or contributions are deemed necessary for legitimate business reasons, they will not be made without the prior approval of the Board and the shareholders in the general meeting.
Corporate Governance 54 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Directors Report continued Material Shareholdings Disclosure of Information to Auditors As at 2 June 2009, the Company had been noti ed under the Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following signi cant Annual Report con rms that: voting rights in its shares: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Number of Percentage of information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: ordinary shares total ordinary Name of holder of US$0.10 each share capital and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have Volcan Investments Ltd 160,783,163 58.16% taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant AXA S. A.
14,062,765 4.90% audit information and to establish that the Companys 1 The voting rights at 31 March 2009 were 279,200,089 ordinary shares.
auditors are aware of that information.
Supplier Payment Policy This con rmation is given in accordance with the provisions of The Group does not follow any speci c external code or section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. standard on payment terms.
Instead, responsibility for determining payment terms is delegated to the individual Directors Responsibility Statement businesses within the Group, which take into consideration the Each Director further con rms that, to the best of their commercial circumstances, local market and industry practice.
knowledge: The Groups policy is either to settle terms of payment with T he financial statements, prepared in accordance with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction or to International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by ensure that the supplier is aware of the individual businesss the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, usual payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with financial position and pro t or loss of the company and the contractual and other legal obligations and re ects local undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a market practices.
whole: and The Business and Financial Reviews, which are incorporated Trade creditor days of the Company at 31 March 2009 were 86 into the Directors Report, include a fair review of the days 2008: 92 days.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in Value of Land the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Land is carried in the Balance Sheet at historic cost.
It is not description of the principal risks and uncertainties practical to estimate the market value of land and mineral they face.
reserves and resources at any point in time since the market values depend on commodity prices which uctuate on a Reappointment of Auditors day-to-day basis.
A resolution to re-appoint the auditors, Deloitte LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Research and Development re-appointment of Deloitte LLP has been approved by the The Groups business units carry out research and Audit Committee, which will also be responsible for development activities necessary to further their operations.
determining their remuneration on behalf of the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Policy on Derivatives and Financial Instruments Annual General Meeting.
An explanation of the Groups financial management objectives and policies together with details of the Groups Annual General Meeting exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign The sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held currency risk appears in note 27 to the financial statements.
at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on 27 July 2009 at 3pm.
The Notice convening the Annual Directors and Of cers Liability Insurance and indemnities General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and sets out The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance for details of the business to be considered.
its Directors and of cers and those of the subsidiaries of the Group, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely The Articles of Association of the Company contain an to affect its future development, performance and position are indemnity provision in favour of the Directors of the Company set out in the Business Review on pages 08 to 31.
The financial against proceedings brought by third parties subject to the position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and Companies Act 2006. borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on pages 24 to 27.
In addition note 27 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BOARD EXECUTIVE CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW REVIEW COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS 55 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 The Group requires funds both for short-term operational Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or needs as well as for long-term investment programmes mainly currencies that the Board shall determine.
The Board may also in growth projects.
The Group generates suf cient cash ows determine the exchange rate and the relevant date for from its current operations which, together with the available determining the value of the dividend in any currency.
cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset investments, provide liquidity both in the short term as well as Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares in the long term.
Anticipated future cash ows and undrawn The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and committed facilities of US$1,909.4 million, together with cash deferred shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
and liquid investments of US$4,912.5 million as at 31 March Details of the authorised and issued share capital together with 2009, are expected to be suf cient to meet the ongoing movements in the Companys issued share capital during the capital investment programme and liquidity requirement of year are shown in note 32. the Group in the foreseeable future.
In February 2006, Vedanta Finance Jersey Limited VFJL The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives suf cient issued 4.6% US$725 million guaranteed convertible bonds.
The headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
The bonds are first convertible into exchangeable redeemable Groups current ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys preference shares to be issued by VFJL, which are then are BB and Ba1 respectively.
These ratings support the exchanged automatically for ordinary shares of Vedanta necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity Resources plc represented by depositary receipts, which do markets at competitive terms, taking into consideration not carry voting rights.
Further details of the convertible bonds current market conditions.
The Group generally maintains a are set out in note 26. healthy net debt-equity ratio and retains exibility in the nancing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
As a Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are not placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the current uncertain economic outlook.
Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any dividend or to receive notice of general meetings.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred shares resources to continue in operational existence for the are set out in the Articles and summarised in note 32. foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report Variation of Rights and Accounts.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the rights attached to any class may be varied with the consent of the Additional Information for Shareholders holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares The following description summarises certain provisions in the of the class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution Companys Articles of Association the Articles and passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the applicable English law concerning companies the Companies shares of the class.
Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant Deadlines for Exercising Voting Rights provisions of the Companies Acts or the Articles should be Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to the consulted if further information is required.
The Articles may business being transacted either in person, by proxy or, in be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Copies relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
of the Companys current Articles are available for inspection The Articles provide that forms of proxy shall be submitted not at the Companys registered of ce.
less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company Restrictions on Voting and the Transfer of Shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends in accordance No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The capital of the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect Board may pay interim dividends if it appears to the Board of any share held by him unless all moneys payable by him in that they are justi ed by the pro ts of the Company available respect of that share have been paid.
shareholder shall be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or on a poll if he has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in his shares that is required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Corporate Governance 56 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Directors Report continued Issue of Shares The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Under the Articles of Association, the Company has authority Company and its Directors or employees that provide for to allot the unissued shares of the Company.
Such authority compensation for loss of of ce or employment that occurs would be exercised having regard to the guidelines of the because of a takeover bid.
Key Relationships Shares Held in Uncerti cated Form The group has several signi cant relationships which are Subject to the provisions of the Uncerti cated Securities critical to its business.
These include, but are not limited to, the Regulations 2001, the Board may permit the holding of shares groups relationships with its majority shareholders, in any class of shares in uncerti cated form and the transfer of customers, lenders, employees and governments in the title to shares in that class by means of a relevant system and jurisdiction in which it operates.
may determine that any class of shares shall cease to be a participating security.
Deepak Kumar Company Secretary Purchase of the Companys Own Shares 6 May 2009 At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a shareholders resolution dated 31 July 2008, to make market Vedanta Resources plc purchases of up to approximately 10% of the Companys 2nd Floor, Vintners Place ordinary shares.
68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ The authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2009 or on 31 October 2009, Registered in England Number 4740415 whichever is the earlier.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
On 2 December 2008, the Company announced a US$250 million share buyback programme to purchase up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares using the above authority.
The Board believes the buyback programme is value enhancing for shareholders.
Since 2 December 2008 and up to the date of this report 10,680,413 ordinary shares of US$0.10 were purchased at an average price of 5.92, representing 3.70% of the Companys issued share capital.
All shares purchased will be held in treasury for subsequent cancellation or sale.
Signi cant Agreements: Change of Control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market borrowing.
Some of these are considered to be signi cant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Under the terms of the US$725 million 4.6% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds due 2026 issued 21 February 2006, in the event of a change of control fide ned as Relevant Event, the Exchange Price will be adjusted.
The Change of Control Exchange Price shall only apply to Bonds in respect of which Conversion Rights are duly exercised and the Conversion Date falls within the period, commencing the date of the Relevant Event and ending on the date 60 days following the occurrence of the Relevant Event.
