Board Executive Committee 36 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report 2009 Board of Directors 1 5 Executive Directors M. S. Mehta, aged 53 Aman Mehta, aged 62 4 Anil Agarwal, aged 55 Chief Executive Mr Mehta, a senior banker, joined the Executive Chairman Prior to his appointment on the board board in November 2004, following Mr Agarwal, who founded the Group in and as CEO, Mr Mehta was wholehis retirement from HSBC where he 1976, is also Chairman of Sterlite and is time Director and CEO of Hindustan had a career spanning 36 years.
He a Director of BALCO, HZL, and Vedanta Zinc Limited.
Mr Mehta has been with held numerous positions, including Alumina Ltd.
Since 1976 the Group the group since April 2000 and has that of Chairman and Chief Executive has grown under his leadership, vision held various leadership roles, such as Of cer of HSBC USA Inc. the New and strategy.
Mr Agarwal has over 30 Commercial Director Base Metals at York based arm of HSBC Holdings years experience as an industrialist.
the group level and Head of Sterlite plc, and as Deputy Chairman of HSBC Copper.
Prior to joining the group, Bank Middle East, based in Dubai with 2 Navin Agarwal, aged 48 Mr Mehta has worked for about responsibility for the HSBC Groups Deputy Executive Chairman 20 years in the steel sector.
Mr Mehta operations in the Middle East.
In Mr Agarwal is responsible for directing is a mechanical engineer and holds 1999, Mr Mehta was appointed Chief the Groups business strategy as well management degree from the Indian Executive Of cer of the Hong Kong as managing its overall growth.
He Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation, a also chairs the Groups Executive position he held until his retirement.
In this role, he oversees Non-Executive Directors Mr Mehta has a Bachelors degree in 3 the planning and completion of the Naresh Chandra, aged 74 Economics from Delhi University.
He pipeline of strategic growth projects.
Mr Chandra joined the board in May now resides in Delhi and is a member of Mr Agarwal is also responsible for 2004.
Mr Chandra was Home Secretary a number of Corporate and Institutional inorganic growth opportunities, in India in 1990, Cabinet Secretary from Boards in India as well as overseas.
strategic treasury and fund raising 1990 to 1992, Senior Adviser to the Prime 6 initiatives including long-term debt Minister of India from 1992 to 1995 and Euan Macdonald, aged 69 and equity global investor relations, the Indian Ambassador to United States Mr Macdonald spent over 20 years as well as augmenting and managing of America from 1996 to 2001.
He was with S. G. Warburg, specialising in the top talent of the Group.
Chairman of the Indian Government emerging market finance.
From 1995 Committee on Corporate Governance to 1999, Mr Macdonald was Chairman from 2002 to 2003.
He was given the of SBC Warburg India, responsible prestigious civilian award of Padma for all the banks activities in India, Vibhushan by the President of India.
and then from 1999 to 2001, he was Mr Chandra has a Masters degree in Executive Vice Chairman of HSBC Mathematics from Allahabad University.
Securities and Capital Markets, India.
Mr Macdonald has a Bachelors degree in economics from the Cambridge University and a Masters degree in finance and international business from Columbia Business School.
