42 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the audited Responsibility report on pages 11 to 13: the Our Strategy section on accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson Group plc, page 6: the Key Performance Indicators on page 7: the Corporate registered in England and Wales No.
251977, for the year ended Governance Report on pages 32 to 37: and the Principal Risks and 31 December 2009.
The Chief Executives Report, the Operating Uncertainties section on pages 38 to 41. Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Remuneration GOING CONCERN Report, and the Corporate Governance, the Principal Risks and Information on the business environment in which the Group Uncertainties, the Corporate Social Responsibility, the Strategy, the operates, including the factors that are likely to impact the future Key Performance Indicators and Board of Directors sections of the prospects of the Group, is included in the Chief Executives Report Annual Report are each incorporated by reference into, and form and the Operating Review.
The principal risks and uncertainties that part of, this Directors Report.
the Group faces throughout its global operations are shown on pages The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with 38 to 41.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the position and debt facilities are described in the Financial Review.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since addition, notes 4 and 38 to the consolidated financial statements set future events and circumstances can cause results and developments out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking capital: financial risks: financial instruments and hedging activities: statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date and its exposures to credit, market both currency and interest of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes rate-related and liquidity risk.
Further details of the Groups cash no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 37 to the in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Group has two committed debt facilities, approximately 680m Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which of syndicated bank facilities and approximately 200m of US Private provides materials, processes and services to customers worldwide.
Of the latter, approximately 84m matures in The Groups operations are formed into three divisions Ceramics, May 2010.
Of the remaining total facilities, of approximately 796m, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Trading under the Vesuvius and the principal maturities are due in 2011 and 2012.
The Groups debt Foseco brand names, Cooksons Ceramics division is the world leader facilities contain a number of financial covenants with which the in the supply of advanced consumable products and systems to the Group is required to comply and with which it was fully in compliance global steel and foundry industries and a leading supplier of specialist as at 31 December 2009.
In March 2009, the Group completed a ceramic products to the glass and solar industries.
It is also a regional rights issue which raised proceeds net of expenses of 241m which leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply and installation of were used to repay gross borrowings, significantly strengthening the monolithic refractory linings.
The Electronics division is a leading Groups financial position.
supplier of consumable electronic assembly materials to assemblers The Directors have prepared cash flow forecasts for the Group for a of PCBs and the semi-conductor packaging industry and advanced period in excess of twelve months from the date of approval of the surface treatment and electro-plating chemicals to the electronics 2009 financial statements.
These forecasts reflect an assessment of industry and for industrial and automotive applications.
It comprises current end-market conditions, their impact on the Groups future two product lines: Assembly Materials and Chemistry.
The Precious trading performance and the actions taken by management during Metals division is a leading supplier of fabricated precious metals 2008 and 2009 in response to the difficult market conditions.
The primarily gold, silver and platinum to the jewellery industry in the US, forecasts completed on this basis show that the Group will be able the UK, France and Spain, and in Europe also has significant precious to operate within the current committed debt facilities and show metal recycling operations.
Products include alloy materials, semicontinued compliance with the financial covenants.
On the basis finished jewellery components and finished jewellery.
of the exercise as described above and the available committed BUSINESS REVIEW debt facilities, the Directors consider that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for As required by the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide a the forseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a going fair review of the development and performance of the Group during concern basis in preparing the financial statements of the Group and 2009, its financial position at the end of the year and likely future the Company.
developments in the Groups business, together with information on environmental matters and employees and a description of the DIVIDENDS principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The information In 2009 the Board reviewed Cooksons near-term dividend policy which satisfies these requirements is to be found in the Chief in response to the global financial crisis and challenging trading Executives Report on pages 9 and 10: the Operating Review on pages conditions.
As a consequence no final dividend for the 2008 financial 14 to 23: the Financial Review on pages 24 to 29: the Corporate Social year was recommended to shareholders and no interim dividend was cooksongroup.
The Board is not recommending a final dividend DIRECTORS to shareholders for the 2009 financial year.
A decision to resume Messrs Beeston, Butterworth, Hewitt, Oosterveld, Perry, Salmon dividend payments will be made once a sustained recovery can be and Sussens all served as Directors of the Company during the seen in our end-markets and trading performance, and in the context year.
Messrs Hill and Wanecq were appointed as Directors on of the Groups cash requirements at that time.
Biographical information for all the Directors of the 8.8p per ordinary share were declared in respect of 2008 restated Company is given on page 30.
In accordance with the Companys following the 10 for 1 share consolidation that took effect on Articles of Association the Articles Messrs Hill and Wanecq will 14 May 2009.
No dividends were paid in 2009.
See note 17 to the retire at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for Consolidated Financial Statements.
Further information on the contractual arrangements of the executive Directors, including Mr Wanecq, is given on page 52.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Non-executive Directors, including Mr Hill, do not have service A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by the agreements.
Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 56 and 57 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the responsibilities LEGAL MATTERS set out in their statement within the context of an overall control All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group environment of central strategic direction and decentralised Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, operating responsibility.
in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys To the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby confirms that he has the Directors have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order Provisions by the Company and the Directors of the Groups UK to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Pension Plan trustee board have been granted Qualifying Pension establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Scheme Indemnity Provisions by Cookson Pension Plans Trustees Ltd.
These indemnities were in force throughout the last financial AUDITOR year and remain in force.
Resolutions for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST remuneration are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Provisions in the Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a REMUNERATION MATTERS Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 48 to 55. the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board None of the executive Directors contracts contains any change of has established a formal system for Directors to declare Situational control provisions.
Conflicts so that they can be considered for authorisation by the REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE remaining members of the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a DIRECTORS Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider would be most likely to promote the success The Board considers the remuneration policy for the Non-executive of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been increased giving authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
during the year and remain at 40,000 per annum.
A supplementary The Group Secretary minutes the consideration of any conflict and fee is payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of 15,000 records any authorisations granted.
The Board believes that the per annum and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee systems it has in place for reporting Situational Conflicts continue receives a supplementary fee of 10,000 per annum.
fee of 5,000 per annum is also payable to the Senior Independent Director.
No changes were made in 2009 to the supplementary fees EMPLOYMENT POLICIES payable.
The Group Chairmans remuneration, which is subject to A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
is that Cooksons goals can only be met through the efforts of its There was no change to the Group Chairmans remuneration during employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction requires the year.
Neither the Group Chairman, who is not an executive working environments that motivate employees to be productive Director, nor the other Non-executive Directors are members of and innovative and provide opportunities for employee training and the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate in the Groups development to maximise personal potential and develop careers incentive schemes.
Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and 44 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED within each division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional UK plans to ensure that both Company and Trustee are apprised Chief Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that of the same financial and other information about the Group and best suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
the plans which is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the effective functioning of the plans.
The Company currently has in This allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong sense which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK defined of identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major international benefit plan as at 31 December 2006 by July 2015.
Cookson values the involvement of its employees and keeps this schedule of contributions will be monitored over time, so as to them informed on matters affecting them as employees and factors assess the need for it to be modified in the light of changes in the relevant to Group performance.
It is established policy throughout deficit position.
All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for Cookson that decisions on recruitment, career development, the exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An training, promotion and other employment-related issues are made independent financial institution acts as the Trustee.
The trust assets solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise are protected by law and by Federal Government Regulation and are and conduct.
These principles are operated on a non-discriminatory subject to annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal basis.
Cookson gives full and fair consideration to applications for Revenue Service and the Department of Labor.
Further details of employment from disabled persons.
Should an employee become pension arrangements are given in note 39 on pages 103 to 110. disabled during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to enable them to continue their service with the Group.
DONATIONS Donations in the UK for charitable purposes totalled nil 2008: PENSIONS nil, and such donations throughout the Group totalled nil 2008: In each country in which the Group operates, the pension nil.
In accordance with Company policy, no political donations were arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good made in either 2009 or 2008. employment practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
terms and conditions under which business transactions with their Outside the UK, the US, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, the suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers majority of pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier nature.
is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
The Groups UK defined benefit plan and main US defined benefit In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2009, the number plans are closed to new entrants and the Groups largest US defined of days purchases outstanding was 16 2008: 21 days.
benefit pension plans have ceased providing future benefit accrual, ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS with members instead being provided with benefit through a defined The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other contribution plan.
Benefit accrual under the Groups UK defined arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
The benefit pension plan currently continues for those employees who Company has a number of contractual arrangements in support of joined prior to the closure of the plan to new entrants.
Whilst the loss of some of these arrangements contribution plans exist for new employees in the UK and the US.
may cause temporary disruption, none is considered to be essential Consultation has recently commenced regarding the proposed in the context of Cooksons business as a whole.
closure of the UK defined benefit and defined contribution plans CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS to future benefit accrual.
It is proposed that a new Group Personal Pension Plan be implemented in their place to provide defined The terms of the Groups committed bank facility and US Private contribution benefits for all eligible UK employees.
Placement loan notes contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of For the Groups UK defined benefit and defined contribution plans a control on takeover of the Company.
A number of other arrangements Trustee board exists comprising employees, former employees and to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such as other an independent trustee.
The board currently comprises seven trustee debt arrangements and share incentive plans, may alter or terminate directors, of whom three are member nominated.
The administration on a change of control in the event of a takeover.
In the context of of each plan is outsourced.
The Company is mindful of its obligations the Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not considered under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the to be significant.
guidance issued by the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between the Company and the Trustee Board of the cooksongroup.
co. uk SHARE CAPITAL ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS As at the date of this report, the Company has an issued share capital Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys of 276,395,833 ordinary shares of 1 each, being the total number of current Articles and applicable English law concerning companies Cookson Group plc shares with voting rights.
The Company currently the Companies Act 2006, the Companies Act.
This is a summary has only one class of shares.
only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Ordinary shareholders of the Company on the share register at the close of business on 13 February 2009 were offered, by way of a AUTHORITY FOR PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES rights issue, 2,551 million 10 pence ordinary shares on the basis of Subject to the provisions of Company law and any other applicable 12 new 10 pence ordinary shares for each existing 10 pence ordinary regulations, the Company may purchase its own shares.
These shares were fully subscribed, resulting in total Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company renewed proceeds on issue of 241 million, net of expenses.
authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at the Following the increase in the Companys issued share capital as date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases under a result of the rights issue, the Directors considered it desirable to this authority.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal consolidate the ordinary shares of the Company.
At the Companys of this authority at each Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Annual General Meeting held on 14 May 2009, shareholders approved Articles specify that, subject to the authorisation of an appropriate a share consolidation, which took effect following the close of business resolution passed by a general meeting of the Company, Directors on that same date.
The 2,763.9 million existing ordinary shares of 10 can allot relevant securities under Section 551 of the Companies pence in issue were consolidated into new ordinary shares on the basis Act, up to the aggregate nominal amount specified by that Act.
In of ten 10 pence ordinary shares for one new ordinary share, to create addition, the Articles state that the Directors can seek the authority 276 million new ordinary shares of 1 each.
Details of movements in of shareholders in general meeting to allot equity securities for cash the Companys issued share capital during 2009 are given in note 13 to without first being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary the Company financial statements on page 126. shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in connection The Company operates a number of share-based share incentive plans with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to an aggregate further details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration nominal amount as specified in Section 561 of the Companies Act.
For the majority of these plans the Company can satisfy TRANSFER OF SHARES entitlements either by the acquisition of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are held in an employee share All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected ownership trust ESOP.
The trustee of the ESOP purchases shares by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other in the open market as required, to enable the Company to meet form acceptable to the Directors and may be under hand only.
liabilities for the provision of existing shares to satisfy awards that The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the vest.
The trustee does not register votes in respect of these shares.
transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor will remain the holder of the shares Adjustments were made to outstanding share-based incentives as concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the share appropriate following the rights issue, including to the number of register.
All instruments of transfer which are registered may be shares granted under options and awards and to the exercise price, retained by the Company.
Provided that the Directors may dispense if any, of those options and awards, and any relevant performance with the execution of the instrument of transfer by the transferee conditions.
Such adjustments were made in accordance with the in any case in which they think fit in their discretion to do so.
All rules of the relevant plan and, where required by the relevant plan transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected rules, adjustments were made with the prior approval of HM Revenue by means of the CREST system.
& Customs and or the Companys Auditor.
Since the year-end, 3,901 ordinary shares have been issued as a result of exercises of options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will again be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
46 COOKSON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by relating to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect of only the shareholder.
Proxies need not be shareholders of the Company.
one class of share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the For the purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend place where the Companys share register is located accompanied or vote at a meeting and how many votes such person may cast, by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the the Company may specify in the notice of the meeting a time, not Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by which to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed a person must be entered on the share register in order to have the by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person right to attend or vote at the meeting.
In the case of a transfer by a recognised clearing house, RESTRICTIONS ON SHARES or by a nominee of a recognised clearing house or of a recognised The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends or investment exchange, the lodgement of share certificates will only other mon ies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a be necessary if and to the extent that certificates have been issued person with 0.25% interest or more if such person has been served in respect of the shares in question.
The Directors may, in the case with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion refuse to concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided the Companies Act.
that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and VARIATION OF RIGHTS proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares or transfer of shares they shall within two months after the date on of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at which the letter of allotment or instrument of transfer was lodged a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every with the Company or the operator instruction was received by the such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons Company in the case of shares held in uncertificated form send to holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value the allottee or transferee notice of the refusal.
of the issued shares of the class.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided A shareholder does not generally need to obtain the approval of the in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING The Articles contain certain restrictions on the number of US persons who hold shares in the Company so as to enable the Company to No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be suspend its obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either 1934 and to prevent any such obligations from arising again in the personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any future.
other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him or her to VOTING RIGHTS the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, if Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or any shareholder, or any other person appearing to be interested in restrictions attached to any class of shares, at a shareholders shares held by such shareholder, has been duly served with a notice meeting, every shareholder who is present in person and every duly to provide the Company with information under Section 793 of the appointed proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll Companies Act and has failed to do so within 14 days, then unless every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have the Directors otherwise determine the shareholder shall not for so one vote for every ordinary share of which he or she is the holder.
In long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior holder who personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose meetings.
seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS in the share register.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a shareholders meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to The Company shall have no fewer than five and no more than fifteen exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and speak and vote in Directors.
The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time his or her place.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in vary the minimum number and or maximum number of Directors.
At relation to a general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed cooksongroup.
co. uk each Annual General Meeting all those Directors who were elected or last re-elected at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year shall retire from office by rotation.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the Company by way of special resolution in accordance with the Companies Act.
INTERESTS IN THE COMPANYS SHARES As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in its issued ordinary shares: % BlackRock, Inc 11.02% Standard Life Investments Ltd 7.03% AXA S. A.
5.92% JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 5.46% Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.78% Fidelity Investments Limited 4.20% Adage Capital Partners GP LLC 4.09% Aegon UK Group of Companies 4.03% Legal & General Group Plc 3.94% Governance for Owners LLP 3.54% The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as disclosed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 55 and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards are set out on page 54.
By Order of the Board Richard M H Malthouse Group Secretary 2 March 2010
