Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 13 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 29 Responsibility Statement of the Directors Responsibility of Directors for the The Directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility Statement of the Directors preparation of the Annual Report adequate accounting records that are in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts sufficient to show and explain the Parent and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing Company's transactions and disclose with The Directors confirm that to the best of the Annual Report and the Group and reasonable accuracy at any time the their knowledge: Parent Company financial statements in financial position of the Parent Company The Group and Parent Companys accordance with applicable law and and enable them to ensure that its financial statements, prepared in regulations.
financial statements comply with the accordance with applicable UK law and Companies Act 2006.
They have general in conformity with IFRS as adopted by Company law requires the Directors to responsibility for taking such steps as are the EU, give a true and fair view of the prepare Group and Parent Company assets, liabilities, financial position and reasonably open to them to safeguard the financial statements for each financial year.
profit or loss of the Company and the assets of the Group and to prevent and Under that law they are required to undertakings included in the detect fraud and other irregularities.
prepare the Group financial statements in consolidation taken as a whole and, Under applicable law and regulations the accordance with International Financial The management report, which Directors are also responsible for preparing Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by comprises the Directors Report and the a Directors Report, Directors the European Union EU and applicable Annual Business Review, includes a fair Remuneration Report and Corporate law and have elected to prepare the Parent review of the development and Company financial statements on the same Governance statement that comply with performance of the business and basis.
that law and those regulations.
position of the Company and the Under company law the Directors must not The Directors are responsible for the undertakings included in the approve the financial statements unless maintenance and integrity of the corporate consolidation as a whole, together with they are satisfied that they give a true and and financial information included on the a description of the principal risks and fair view of the state of affairs of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK the uncertainties they face.
Group and Parent Company and of their governing the preparation and The Directors of Victrex plc are detailed on profit or loss for that period.
dissemination of accounts may differ from page 16. legislation in other jurisdictions.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent By order of the Board Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Michael Peacock Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Finance Director 7 December 2009 State whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and, Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Parent Company will continue in business.
