Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 12 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 09 Electronics sales volume for the year was down 54% at 285 tonnes due to Victrexs Strategy and Objectives significantly reduced semiconductor and consumer electronic sales.
Second half sales volume saw a strong recovery, with average Achieve sustainable earnings growth: monthly run rates up 40% on the average for November to March in the first half, Deliver new solutions to meet end users evolving mainly due to increased semiconductor sales in Asia-Pacific and Europe.
application requirements through product and Product and market development technology innovation: We have continued to generate new business throughout 2009 despite a difficult Continually improve customer satisfaction through trading environment.
During the year we commercialised 533 new VICTREX PEEK superior product quality and customer service and polymer applications with an estimated innovative application solutions: mature annualised volume MAV of 314 tonnes compared with 723 commercialised applications with an MAV of 487 tonnes in Achieve the highest appropriate standards for the 2008. supply chain in terms of capacity and operational At the year end our development pipeline efficiency: contained 2,942 developments 2008: 2,978 with an estimated MAV of 1,966 tonnes 2008: 2,910 tonnes if all of the Design, operate and maintain safe plants in developments were successfully accordance with best safety and environmental commercialised.
As can be seen, we have maintained activity levels, albeit with practice and all regulatory requirements: reduced customer tonnage expectations, largely reflecting the economic slowdown.
Conduct all our activities with respect for the In the automotive industry, the pursuit of hybrid technology has intensified as new environment, continuously working to reduce our green and fuel efficient targets are set by environmental impact by improving the efficiency governments.
VICTREX PEEK continues to be an attractive material to the industry due to of our operations and, the reduction of metallic noise, the potential to reduce costs when combined with other Maximise employee motivation and performance.
materials in a sub-assembly and increasingly the weight advantage in comparison to metals.
Similarly, the focus in the aerospace market on delivering significant weight reductions in passenger aircraft to reduce fuel consumption is providing metal replacement opportunities for VICTREX PEEK utilising its mechanical properties and outstanding flame and smoke emission properties.
In the oil and gas industry, the drive towards increased productivity continues to provide opportunities for VICTREX PEEK which offers the required mechanical performance at extreme temperatures and in harsh chemical environments.
Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 13 10 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Business Review continued Business Overview continued In the electronics industry, VICTREX PEEK Invibio continues to invest in new our forecast trading assumptions, current offers solutions to end users seeking technologies and innovations for medical hedging already in place and spot exchange increased heat and impact resistance and device manufacturers, as was demonstrated rates as at 27 November 2009, we currently TM increased mechanical strength, as they by the introduction of our MOTIS polymer estimate the following average rates will apply: improve their products to meet consumer at the American Academy of Orthopedic Year to Year to needs in mobile communication and other Surgeons 2009 Annual Meeting.
offers orthopaedic surgeons an innovative Actual Estimate new option for replacing metal, ceramic and We continue to expand our product range US Dollar 1.85 1.60 polyethylene components in orthopaedic to open up new application areas.
This year Euro 1.31 1.13 joint replacement.
Invibios continuing we launched a new polymer, Victrex ST Yen 181 157 progress in the spinal market was reflected offering increased high temperature in the receipt of a 2009 Spine Technology excluding adverse impact from buy out of surplus resistance and designed to perform in the Award for Biomaterials as judged by a panel forward exchange contracts of 11.3m.
most demanding environments such as the of surgeons.
energy industries where a combination of As a result of these improved rates, we high temperature, mechanical performance During 2009, Invibio has entered into 47 expect to see a further significant increase in and dimensional stability is required.
additional long-term supply assurance effective sterling average selling price in agreements with implantable medical device 2010 which will have a positive impact on Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio manufacturers.
These agreements were not revenue and profit.
However, we expect 2009 2008 Change only with manufacturers based in Europe gross margin for 2010 to be broadly in line m m % and the United States, but increasingly in with 2009 as cost of sales per tonne is Revenue 34.2 24.9 37% emerging geographic markets such as Asiaforecast to remain at similar levels to the Gross profit 30.1 21.9 37% Pacific and South America.
Operating profit 20.0 14.5 38% Outlook Risks, trends, factors and uncertainties Invibio had a strong year and generated Group sales volume Victrexs business and share price may be record revenue of 34.2m, an increase of At approximately 345 tonnes for the two affected by a number of risks, trends, factors 37% over 2008 24.9m.
Underlying and uncertainties, not all of which are in our months to the end of November, Group revenue at constant exchange rates was sales volume has shown further control.
The process Victrex has in place for up 23%.
identifying, assessing and managing risks is improvement since the year end.
It remains Sales, marketing and administrative too early to tell the extent to which this set out in the Corporate Governance Report expenses increased by 2.7m to 10.1m, on page 22. continues to reflect an element of primarily due to targeted investment in restocking, but it clearly represents a Sections of this Annual Report contain resources to drive growth.
As planned, continuation of the positive volume trend forward-looking statements, including Invibio ended 2009 with 47 employees seen in the second half of last year.
statements relating to: future demand and 2008: 33 as a result of its ongoing December sales are expected to be lower markets for the Groups products and recruitment programme.
than the first two months of the financial services: research and development relating year, reflecting the normal seasonal trend, as Operating profit increased to 20.0m, up to new products and services and liquidity customers undergo year end shutdowns.
These forward-looking We anticipate having a clearer view of the Underlying operating profit at constant statements involve risks and uncertainties likely level of ongoing demand for 2010 exchange rates was 17.5m, up 21%.
because they relate to events that may or once January sales volume is known, which may not occur in the future.
The strong results in 2009 were driven by will be reported in February.
The specific principal risks, trends, factors good growth and continued innovation Invibio within spinal applications, both in spinal and uncertainties which could impact the Following reduced revenue in the second Groups revenues, profits and reputation fusion as well as new developments in half of last year, which was principally the motion preservation and dynamic and relevant mitigating factors, as currently result of inventory rationalisation, Invibio identified by Victrexs risk management stabilisation.
Other strategic markets such as revenue is recovering and accordingly we arthroscopy, orthopaedics and cranio-maxillo process, are described below.
During the continue to expect further revenue growth year the Group has been impacted by the facial continue to yield success and lay the in 2010. foundation for future growth.
Since its current economic climate and the measures taken in response, including streamlining the introduction ten years ago, more than Currency impact and gross margin 2 million devices containing Invibios VPS division and reducing production levels, Trading results for 2010 will be positively principal polymer PEEK-OPTIMA have are summarised above.
However, other risks affected by the weakening of sterling been implanted in patients.
may also adversely affect the Group.
against our key trading currencies.
