Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 1 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 Directors Report Directors The Directors present their Annual Report rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their Details of the Directors of the Company and Accounts to shareholders for the year transfer following failure by the member or are given on page 16.
Details of Directors ended 30 September 2009. any other person appearing to be interested interests in shares are provided in the in the shares to provide the Company with Principal activity Report on Directors Remuneration on information requested under section 793 of The Groups principal activity is the pages 23 to 28. the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors may, manufacture and sale of high performance in certain circumstances, also refuse to At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions polymers.
register the transfer of a share in certified will be proposed for the re-election of Annual business review form which is not fully paid up, where the Ms A M Frew, Mr D R Hummel and The Company is required to set out in this instrument of transfer does not comply with Mr M W Peacock.
report a fair review of the business of the the requirements of the Articles of Group during the financial year ended 30 Appointment and replacement of Directors Association, or if entitled to do so under the September 2009, the position of the Group The current and proposed new Articles of Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. at the end of that financial year and a Association of the Company provide that No ordinary shares carry any special rights description of the principal risks and the number of Directors shall be not more with regard to control of the Company and uncertainties facing the Group known as than ten and not less than two, unless there are no restrictions on voting rights an Annual Business Review.
otherwise determined by the Company by except that a shareholder has no right to Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be The information that fulfils the requirements vote in respect of a share unless all sums due appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the of this Annual Business Review can be found in respect of that share are fully paid.
There members or by a resolution of the Directors.
on pages 3 to 15. are no known agreements between holders A Director appointed by the Directors must Results and dividends of securities that may result in restrictions on retire at the next following AGM and offer Group profit after tax for the year was the transfer of securities or on voting rights himself for re-election.
and no known arrangements under which A Director may be removed by an financial rights are held by a person other The Directors recommend the payment of a Extraordinary Resolution of the Company.
In than the holder of the shares.
final dividend of 14.0p per share, on addition, a Director must automatically 26 February 2010, to all shareholders on the Shares acquired by employees under cease to be a Director if i he ceases to be a register on 12 February 2010.
This makes a employee share schemes rank equally with Director by virtue of any provision of the total dividend of 19.2p per share for the year the other shares in issue and have no Companies Act or he becomes prohibited 2008: 18.3p per share.
by law from being a Director, or ii he Share capital Own shares held becomes bankrupt or makes any Details of the Companys share capital and Details of own shares held are given in note arrangement or composition with his reserve for own shares are given in note 19.
creditors generally, or iii he is suffering During the year 225,208 shares were issued At the 2009 Annual General Meeting from a mental disorder, or iv he resigns in respect of options exercised under AGM, shareholders renewed the from his office by notice in writing to the employee share schemes.
Details of these Companys authority to make market Company, or in the case of an executive schemes are summarised in note 18. purchases of up to 8,289,709 of its own Director, his appointment is terminated or ordinary shares representing 10% of the expires and the Directors resolve that his Rights and obligations attaching to shares issued share capital of the Company as at 12 office be vacated, or v he is absent for The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to December 2008.
No market purchases of more than six consecutive months without receive dividends when declared, the the Companys own shares were made permission of the Directors from meetings Companys report and accounts, to attend during the year.
At the forthcoming AGM of the Directors and the Directors resolve and speak at general meetings of the the Board will again seek shareholders that his office be vacated or vi he is Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise approval to renew the annual authority for requested in writing, or by electronic form, voting rights.
the Company to make purchases of its own by all the other Directors to resign.
There are no restrictions on transfer or shares through the market.
limitations on the holding of ordinary shares AGM and no requirements to obtain prior approval The notice of the 2010 AGM of the to any transfer except where the Company Company is given on page 65. has exercised its right to suspend their voting Victrex Stats 09:Victrex 10 12 09 09:06 Page 2 18 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors Reportcontinued Powers of the Directors Combined Code Disclosure of information to auditor The powers of the Directors are determined A statement on corporate governance is The Directors who held office at the date of by the Companys Memorandum and set out on pages 19 to 22. approval of this Directors Report confirm Articles of Association, the Companies Act that, so far as they are each aware, there is Financial instruments 2006 and any directions given by the no relevant audit information of which the Details of financial risk management are Company in general meeting.
The Directors Companys auditor is unaware and each given in note 15. have been authorised by the Articles of Director has taken all the steps that he she Donations Association to issue and allot ordinary shares ought to have taken as a Director to make Details of charitable donations made in the and to make market purchases of shares.
himself herself aware of any relevant audit year are set out on page 15.
No political These powers are referred to shareholders at information and to establish that the donations were made 2008: nil.
Any shares purchased Companys auditor is aware of that Creditor payment policy may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
The Group does not follow any standard Auditor Directors indemnities code on payment practice.
Terms and A resolution proposing the reappointment The Company has granted indemnities in conditions are agreed with each supplier as of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the favour of Directors under Deeds of appropriate.
The Group had trade creditors Company will be put to the AGM.
These Deeds were in force during outstanding at the year end representing the year ended 30 September 2009 and 25 days 2008: 21 days of purchases.
The remain in force as at the date of this report.
Company did not have any significant By order of the Board The Deeds and the Companys Articles of external trade creditors.
Association are available for inspection Going concern during normal business hours at the The Directors are satisfied that the Company Companys Registered Office and will be Gary Hulme and Group have adequate resources to available at the AGM.
Company Secretary continue to operate for the foreseeable 7 December 2009 Change of control future.
For this reason they continue to None of the Directors or employees adopt the going concern basis for preparing service contracts contain provisions the financial statements.
providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Employment policies The Groups employment policies, including its policy regarding the employment of disabled people, are set out on page 14.
Major interests in shares The Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at 4 December 2009: Number of ordinary shares Schroders plc 10,306,929 12.39% BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 9,984,830 12.00% Legal and General Group Plc 4,389,243 5.28% F&C Asset Management plc 4,228,620 5.08% AEGON UK Group of Companies 4,167,293 5.01% Standard Life Investments Ltd 4,101,202 4.93% AXA S. A.
