Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 7 04 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Business Review continued Victrex Polymer Solutions Division Deep focused technical expertise Victrex Polymer Solutions Victrex provides a wide range of services from material specification and testing to research and application development.
is focused on our major The Applied Technology Centre in the UK provides extensive material formulation, specification and testing services.
houses state-of-the-art processing facilities to support customer trials on-site.
We can contribute to the optimisation of a customers design, optimise manufacturing parameters and carry out an extensive set of relevant analytical and application related tests to confirm the real world feasibility of a part.
Our focus The UK Technology Centre complements the Victrex Asia Innovation Our market development, sales and technical teams work with and Technology Center located in Shanghai, China.
Based on the customers and end users to provide solutions to their challenges similarly advanced services, this facility is dedicated to helping and opportunities leveraging the unique combination of customers with applications and related testing.
Customers enjoy properties and forms that our products provide.
local-language staff, technical seminars, process and troubleshooting support, materials data, moulds validation, as well as part prototyping.
Our product properties Inherent purity Extremely low levels of organic, inorganic and ionic impurities Exceptional hydrolysis resistance At elevated temperatures and pressures when continually conditioned in steam or water High strength to weight ratio Stronger and lighter than many metals and alloys and performs in tough environments Electrical performance Over a wide frequency and temperature range whether conductive or non-conductive Exceptional wear resistance Over wide ranges of pressure, velocity, temperature and counterfacial roughness Exceptional chemical resistance To most chemicals, solvents and sterilisation processes in aggressive environments Fire, smoke and toxicity performance No flame retardant additives and generates extremely low smoke and toxic gas emissions Temperature performance Retains a high degree of mechanical properties in extremely high and low temperatures The worlds leading manufacturer of polyketones Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 8 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 05 VICTREX PEEK polymer is Our markets used in aircraft hubcaps which, as part of landing gear, are exposed to extreme environments and loading conditions such as repeated landings, a wide range of temperatures and TRANSPORT chemical exposure.
VICTREX PEEK polymer delivers an excellent combination of properties that make it the material of choice in a wide range of transportation applications.
Our products have successfully displaced metals, traditional composites and other plastics in a growing number of automotive and aerospace applications.
Increased performance requirements such as resistance to the extremes of temperature, weight and size reduction and demands for lower production costs continue to drive our opportunities in this market.
ATEs P2C speaker cone is a ELECTRONICS revolutionary laminate design made with Victrex APTIV VICTREX PEEK polymer provides electronic components with black film.
The combined free an exceptional combination of benefits including wear surface design capability and resistance, strength, dimensional stability and high ability to be thermoformed temperature resistance.
This means greater part functionality, provide an excellent reliability and cost savings for designers.
technology solution for cones Higher performance, portability, wireless high frequency, in all types of speakers.
longer life and more stringent environmental concerns are shaping the way electronic parts are designed.
In semiconductor fabrication, migration towards larger wafer sizes and smaller chips with narrow line widths and feature sizes requires higher performance from wafer handling and processing materials.
High purity and chemical resistance help VICTREX PEEK polymer meet these needs.
Industrial applications INDUSTRIAL include cable insulation, wiring and tubing clamps, Engineers are facing increased demands for materials with seals, back up rings and high temperature performance and chemical resistance while sub-sea connectors.
avoiding costly production downtime due to component failure.
VICTREX PEEK polymer is an excellent choice for industrial applications due to its exceptional combination of physical properties and processability.
Components designed with our products can deliver long-term reliability in the harshest of environments that require high strength and wear resistance over a wide range of temperatures.
