Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 14 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 11 Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from anticipated results because Key Performance Indicators of a variety of risk factors, including: changes in interest and exchange rates: Financial Performance changes in global, political, economic, 09 KPI - Five year compound annual business, competitive and market forces: 1.9% growth rate in basic EPS changes in raw material pricing and Target Sustainable earnings growth 08 availability: changes to legislation and tax 20.2% rates: future business combinations or disposals: relations with customers and 07 22.6% customer credit risk: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory New Application Development environment and the outcome of litigation.
09 KPI - Commercialised applications Further information on financial risk 533 applications management is set out in note 15.
314 tonnes MAV Target Delivery of sufficient new commercialised applications to 08 Technological change 723 applications underpin growth 487 tonnes MAV Victrexs business is dependent on manufacturing and selling high quality 07 580 applications 494 tonnes MAV products into advanced applications.
Demand for these applications and, consequently, for our products could be impacted as new Supply Chain technologies and materials are developed.
KPI - Capacity 09 To address this, we employ specialists 4,250 tonnes Target Delivery of sufficient high per annum covering the major market segments for quality capacity to meet demand 08 VICTREX PEEK to maintain and advance our 4,250 tonnes per annum skills and knowledge.
This enables us to 07 develop new applications for VICTREX PEEK, 2,800 tonnes so that we maintain our position as a leading per annum solutions provider to designers and engineers at our customers and end users.
Employees Operational disruption KPI - Voluntary staff turnover 09 The Groups business is dependent on the 3.3% Target Minimise ongoing operation of our various 08 manufacturing facilities.
A significant 4.0% operational disruption could adversely affect 07 our ability to make and supply products.
2.8% As a result, we have implemented policies and procedures to safely manage all our operations and maintain our supply of Health and Safety VICTREX PEEK to customers.
In particular, we KPI - Reportable injuries 09 THREE employ a dedicated and empowered Safety, Target Zero 08 ONE Health and Environment SHE department 07 ONE to assist line management and to provide expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is set out in the Corporate Environment Responsibility section on page 13.
KPI - Notifiable events 09 ZERO We hold significant stocks of raw materials and finished goods which should enable us Target Zero 08 ONE to maintain supplies during any short-term 07 FOUR disruption.
Furthermore, the second VICTREX PEEK manufacturing plant is able to operate Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 15 12 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Business Review continued Business Overview continued independently from the first plant, thereby Currency exposure Suppliers reducing the impact of any operational Currently, the Group exports 96% of sales In 2005 we completed the purchase of the disruption on our ability to continue from the UK.
Primarily, these sales are operations of Degussa AG relating to the manufacturing products.
denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
manufacture of BDF the key raw material Fluctuations in exchange rates between from which VICTREX PEEK is produced.
Insufficient capacity sterling and these other currencies could The provision of other key raw materials and Our customers businesses depend on cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
services remain essential to the operation of maintaining a consistent supply of high our various manufacturing facilities and we quality products.
Any unexpected upsurge in The Group hedging policy to mitigate this seek to maintain appropriate contracts, demand could lead to insufficient capacity to risk is set out in the Corporate Governance where available, with suppliers for the supply fulfil customers needs: additionally any Report on page 22. of key raw materials.
In addition to the steps delays in the implementation of major capital Relationships with customers taken to manage the risk of operational expenditure programmes could create a and suppliers disruption caused by a shortage of key raw capacity shortage, leading to customers We have essential relationships with our materials as described on page seeking alternative products.
customers, suppliers, employees, 11, we devote significant resources to To mitigate this risk, our stocks of finished shareholders and the environment.
All our maintaining our supplier relationships to goods enable us to supply any short-term relationships are managed in accordance ensure they continue to operate satisfactorily, surge in demand from our customers.
with the Group's global ethics policies including regular audits of and performance Additionally, it is our policy to keep capacity described on pages 14 and 15.
Relationships reviews with key suppliers.
well ahead of demand, by investing in our with our customers and suppliers are supply chain, so that our customers can be described in further detail below: confident that we can meet their requirements.
Customers Product specifications Our customers are a combination of polymer The Groups products are used in highly processors and end users located worldwide.
Any failure We have long-term supply assurance to supply products in accordance with their agreements in place with all of the specifications could lead to loss of business implantable medical device manufacturers and, potentially, a product liability claim.
that comprise Invibio's PEEK-OPTIMA To mitigate this risk, VICTREX PEEK is polymer customers.
These agreements guarantee the specification of and manufactured within a quality management system approved to ISO 9001:2000.
Invibio production methods for the biomaterial over the term of the agreements.
We also have PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured within the requirements of ISO supply agreements in place with some major processing customers and supply to other 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical customers on an order by order basis in accordance with the Group's applicable industry and by medical companies.
terms and conditions of sale.
The loss of a Competitor activity major processing customer or a worsening of Victrex operates in competitive markets, both commercial terms could have a material in terms of competitors offering impact on the Group's results, accordingly directly comparable materials other we devote significant resources to supporting polyaryletherketone products and alternative our customer global ethics policies, including materials.
Failure to compete successfully maintaining regular contact with major could negatively impact the business.
customers and undertaking surveys of Accordingly, we are continuing to work customer satisfaction.
closely with our customers to provide high quality products as required and to invest in resources to bring cost effective, high quality application solutions to our customers.
