Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 9 06 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Business Review continued Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Division FOCUS FOCUS FO US S S TEN TEN T YEAR YEAR Y ANNIVERSAR ANNIVER A RSARY Y Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Marks Tenth Anniversary of INNO IN NNO Flagship PEEK-OPTIMA Polymers.
QU Q QUA AL L LIITY TY Y V VA VA A ATIO TION TION ON N This year, Invibio Biomaterial Solutions marks the tenth anniversary Quality, focus and innovation drive success of the launch of the PEEK-OPTIMA family of biomaterials, the The markets continued confidence in PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is worlds first implantable PEEK polymers.
Since their introduction in driven by Invibio's singular commitment to the medical device 1999, versatile PEEK-OPTIMA polymers have rapidly gained market community, evidenced by Invibios pace of innovation and its acceptance.
Today, the market leading biomaterials are extensively establishment of the Invibio Global Technical Centre IGTC which used across the implantable medical device industry in applications is dedicated to advanced R&D, process and product innovation and including spinal fusion and motion preservation, joint replacement, expert applications support.
trauma applications, cranio-maxillo facial implants, dental The adoption of Invibios materials by device manufacturers has components and active implantable medical devices.
enabled a new generation of medical devices better equipped to serve the demands of todays active patient population.
Invibios Transforming the medical device design landscape ongoing commitment to partnering with medical device PEEK-OPTIMA has transformed the medical device design landscape manufacturers to develop innovative and high quality biomaterial and set an industry standard for biomaterial biocompatibility, safety solutions will help the industry meet the growing demands of and quality.
Backed by an extensive history of long-term tomorrows emerging device applications.
implantation success and unmatched quality, PEEK-OPTIMA provides a proven and versatile biomaterial platform for the medical device community.
A decade ago, medical device designers were constrained by the processing capabilities and mechanical properties of the more traditional biomaterials such as bone, metals, ceramics and other polymers.
The introduction of PEEK-OPTIMA polymer helped facilitate important advancement in device design and patient outcomes, enabling significant developments across several treatment areas.
Today, Invibio continues to innovate and expand the toolbox of medical device designers by creating the next generation of biomaterial solutions for the industry.
More than two million devices featuring PEEK-OPTIMA polymer have been implanted in patients over the past decade Victrex 09 front:Layout 1 10 12 09 08:59 Page 10 Victrex plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 07 The industry leading PEEK-OPTIMA product range of implantable polymers and compounds with a decade of implantation history and successful use in regulatory approved devices.
New MOTIS polymer for joint arthroplasty underscores MOTIS polymer provides commitment to innovations.
enhanced properties tailored for orthopaedic joint reconstruction and replacement.
In 2009, Invibio introduced its MOTIS polymer, specifically developed to meet the demanding and specialised requirements of orthopaedic applications such as joint reconstruction and replacement, known as joint arthroplasty.
Nearly 2.7 million joint replacements took place worldwide in 2008, ENDOLIGN composites representing a 9% market growth rate over the previous year.
offer the strength of metal Baby-boomers, determined to maintain active lifestyles despite their and the benefits of a ageing joints, are redefining the concept of retirement and polymer for advanced challenging medical device manufacturers to develop the next structural implants.
generation of joint replacement technology.
Additionally, a rising number of younger patients are undergoing joint replacements as technologies become more compatible with their activity levels and life expectancies.
MOTIS polymer is a tool for innovation that drives joint arthroplasty device performance to the next level.
The processing versatility and PEEK-CLASSIX features USP unique mechanical property range of MOTIS not only enables new Class VI biocompatibility approaches in the replacement of metal, ceramic and polyethylene certification for exceptional components, but also facilitate its use in advanced device designs performance for that can provide improved device longevity, less invasive techniques short-term blood and tissue and better patient outcomes.
The introduction of MOTIS is supported by research and published data that have shown the material to be biocompatible and to provide extremely low wear rates in hip and knee arthroplasty.
MOTIS polymer enables advanced design and performance for joint replacement applications such as this novel hip cup design.
