30 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Peter Lee is one of around 50 apprentices a year British Energy sends to the dedicated engineering academy managed by VT at the Royal Navys HMS Sultan training establishment in Hampshire.
The facilities, including specialist areas for nuclear engineering training, are also used by several other leading engineering companies in their apprentice training.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 3 VT Education & Skills Highlights VT Education & Skills VTE&S is the UKs In Careers Guidance, we have secured largest education and training business.
the South East regional NextSteps adult 2009 was a year of strong Our activities include supporting schools, guidance contract, and several Connexions performance and growth for providing work-based training and supplying youth guidance contracts.
Turnover increased by training solutions and integrated support contracts are valued at 10m.
VT has also been 31% and underlying operating services to the Royal Navy.
named preferred bidder for the Response to profit by 75%.
Integration of VT Flagship, 2009 performance following acquisition of On the military side, we have built on our remaining 50% share from substantial naval training programme through Integration of VT Flagship: We completed our BAE Systems VT Flagship, with new multi-activity contracts acquisition of the remaining 50 per cent share for the Royal Air Force at RAF Cosford and Strong trading performance of Flagship from BAE Systems on 1 July 2008.
These are of training, including contract This made VTE&S the largest education and valued at 13m and 30m respectively.
wins with VW Group, BMW training business in the UK.
Group and British Energy VTE&S has demonstrated its commitment Strong performance in vocational training: Opening of first school to the environment by being awarded the An increased focus on engineering work-based under the Lewisham Grey Fleet Heros Award from the Energy learning led to major contract wins with key Building Schools for the Saving Trust, in recognition of efforts made employers in the automotive and energy Future contract to reduce carbon emissions through offering sectors, including BMW Group, VW Group and fuel-efficient vehicles to staff.
Implementation of Waltham British Energy.
The value of these contracts is Forest school improvement some 70m.
Building Schools for the Future BSF, Lewisham: We opened our first school in The UK Governments commitment to both Lewisham in January 2009 as part of our BSF the education and the skills agendas continue Financial highlights contract, in partnership with Costain.
VTE&S is to make the market attractive for VTE&S.
contracted to provide transformational learning Current economic conditions demonstrate Turnover m consultancy, Information Communications the need for individuals and businesses 2009 267.3 Technology ICT managed services, and to acquire skills as they seek to enhance 2008 203.8 facilities management services for up to their competitiveness.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 25 years in an integrated model that brings Despite difficulties in the credit market which innovation and value for money.
have impacted some private finance initiatives, Underlying operating profit m School improvement and support services: we believe that the BSF programme will continue We have successfully begun our new school to progress.
Having most recently been selected 2009 23.6 improvement contract for the 80 schools in as part of a successful consortium in the 2008 13.5 Waltham Forest.
Our major school support Borough of Luton, VTE&S is well positioned 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 services contract across the 403 schools in to benefit as this programme matures.
Surrey also continues to run well, with our work Margin % contributing to the best GCSE results ever for the county.
2009 8.8 2008 6.6 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Catford High School is the second new school to be opened in the Borough of Lewisham under the Building Schools for the Future programme being carried out by Learning21, the consortium between VT and Costain Group.
VT is now providing managed ICT and facilities management services to the school and its 900 students.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
