26 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Over 600 students pass through the Armour Centre at Bovington, Dorset every year.
VT manages some 169 tracked vehicles in support of this training programme, as well as delivering the training in both the classroom and the field.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 27 VT Support Services Highlights VT Support Services VTSS operates in the Light Aircraft Flying Task: VTSS signed a defence, emergency and commercial sectors, 160m contract to deliver initial military flying 2009 saw significant growth delivering customer-critical services through training to all three armed forces over a in both turnover 40% and the provision and support of assets.
This expands current activities underlying operating profit offer complex engineering solutions in the to enable up to 57,000 flying hours per year 35%, complemented by nuclear and waste-to-energy sectors.
through the provision of aircraft, associated order book growth arising from support and instructors.
extensions to existing contracts 2009 performance and major contract wins.
Training at Bordon and Arborfield garrisons: Up to 3bn UK Military Flying UK Military Flying Training System UKMFTS : We secured further extensions to our Bordon Training System contract June 2008 saw the award of a 25-year contract and Arborfield training and support contracts award and initial delivery for the UKMFTS to Ascent, our joint venture until 2011, at a value of more than 40m.
Delivery of Future Strategic with Lockheed Martin UK.
Ascent, as the Having won the Training, Maintenance and Tanker Aircraft initial Ministry of Defences MoD training system Support Services TMASS contract in 2008, milestones partner, will now train all UK military aircrew we successfully completed implementation, including fast jet, rotary wing and multi-engine 100m New Dimension and commenced delivery of, training and pilots.
VTSS has started work on the initial contract award and initial support activities to the British Army at package for the construction of a training delivery Bovington garrison.
school and maintenance facility at RAF Valley, 160m Light Aircraft Flying Wales, in support of advanced jet training.
The year ended 31 March 2009 also saw the Task award successful beginning of the Sea King Integrated Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA 40m extensions of Bordon Operational Support SKIOS contract, to programme: VTSS has successfully completed and Arborfield contracts maintain the Search and Rescue Sea King early milestones in the construction of facilities fleet across the UK and in the Falklands.
at RAF Brize Norton to support the A330 tanker aircraft.
Financial highlights AirKnight, our joint venture with Lockheed Martin UK, is now one of only two remaining New Dimension long-term capability contract: Turnover m bidders for the UKs multi-billion pound We made further advances in the fire services Search and Rescue Helicopter SAR-H sector with the award and successful 2009 410.1 2008 293.0 programme.
We anticipate a preferred bidder implementation of the UK Governments 16-year 100m contract in support of UK civil resilience.
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 Underlying operating profit m Last year, VT won an additional contract with the 2009 35.9 Metropolitan Police to maintain 250 territorial support 2008 26.6 vehicles.
This complements the existing contract to maintain 0 10 20 30 40 50 the forces 4,000 cars, bikes and other specialist vehicles.
Margin % 2009 8.8 2008 9.1 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 28 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 VT Support Services continued We have further consolidated our position in main facility, and for the transfer loading station VT, as one of the the emergency services sector by securing in Wakefield.
We anticipate the contract will start MoDs highest support contracts for the Metropolitan Police in the first half of the year ending 31 March 2010, ranked suppliers, Services 250 territorial support vehicles.
This supplements our existing support of their remains strongly fleet of cars, motorbikes and other vehicles.
Going forward positioned to VT Nuclear Services has restructured secure additional While the defence sector continues to operations to expand beyond our traditional outsourcing experience operational and budgetary nuclear waste and decommissioning market pressures, VT as one of the MODs highest opportunities.
We have secured two ranked suppliers, remains strongly positioned to key framework contracts with the Nuclear secure the additional outsourcing opportunities Installations Inspectorate to support the we anticipate will now arise.
Similarly, financial licensing of new reactors in the UK, and we pressure in the emergency services and airline have a framework agreement with British sectors is likely to act as a catalyst for further Energy to provide engineering support to outsourcing opportunities, and will drive its operating plants.
consolidation of customer vehicle fleets.
VT Environmental Engineering has substantially We believe that activity in the nuclear services agreed commercial terms on a 750m contract market, particularly related to the UK new build with Wakefield Metropolitan District Council programme, will start to accelerate over the next for the design, build and operation of waste 18 months.
We also remain confident that the facilities in Wakefield over 25 years.
Planning consent has been achieved for the 13-acre site waste-to-energy market will grow substantially at South Kirkby, which will accommodate the as the urgency to reduce landfill increases.
The requirement to reduce the amount of landfill activity means that local authorities are increasingly seeking alternative ways of dealing with their residual waste.
VT has developed technology using a steam autoclave process that transforms residual waste into a fibre that can be treated to produce energy.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 29 Associated British Ports Marine Officer Nigel Haybittle and Marine Pilot Paul Twelftree are part of the team who help to carry out over 10,000 piloted vessel moves a year at the ports of Southampton and Portsmouth.
VT-owned and maintained launches are used to transport pilots to and from ships that range from giant container vessels to some of the worlds biggest passenger ships.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
