6 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Creating the system to provide flying training.
The UKs armed forces have some of the best aircrew in the world.
The training they receive is vital for the ongoing success of missions, from protecting ground operations through transporting humanitarian aid to providing search and rescue services around Britains coastline.
With our partner Lockheed Martin, we are working with the Ministry of Defence to create a world-class training system that delivers the right number of aircrew with the right skills to meet the demands of current and future operational requirements.
Ascent is a joint venture between VT Group and Lockheed Martin, and is the MoDs partner on the 25-year UK Military Flying Training System programme.
Ascents responsibilities include curriculum development, some instruction and the management of the associated facilities and training assets.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 7 The UK Military Flying Training System partnership will provide trained pilots, weapons systems officers and rear crew for all of the UKs front-line military aircraft, ranging from helicopters and multi-engined aircraft through to advanced fighters such as the Typhoon.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 8 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Ensuring the emergency services get the equipment they need.
Todays emergency services need to be equipped for all manner of incidents.
Besides their established role, they are in the front line in times of natural disasters, urban search and rescue calls and extreme threats such as terrorism.
Each incident requires specialist equipment and, through our capability management role for the New Dimension fleet of emergency vehicles and equipment modules, it is VTs job to make sure that equipment is in the right place at the right time ready for use in potentially life-saving operations.
VT started work in October 2008 on a 16-year project to provide support services for over 500 vehicles and modules and more than 30,000 items of specialist equipment used by fire and rescue services to deal with emergencies beyond their normal call of duty.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 9 Throughout England and Wales, fire and rescue services are required to respond to a wide range of emergency scenarios, such as collapsed buildings, floods or even chemical, nuclear and biological attacks.
VT provides nearly 50 authorities with the vehicles and equipment they need to meet these demands effectively.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 20 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Building the infrastructure that keeps the military connected.
In everyday civilian life, we often take for granted the boxes, cubicles and equipment that allow us to communicate with others.
But for the military on deployed operations, these vital components have to be taken with them wherever they go.
VT builds modular systems that provide communications, power distribution and command facilities, robust enough to be rapidly airlifted and used within the harshest of environments.
VT fits out Mobile, Modular Communications Units MMCUs for US forces at its facility in South Carolina.
In addition to providing infrastructure, VT also operates in-theatre, providing technical services such as oil analysis and aircraft logistic support.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 2 A number of VT-designed MMCUs are now being used in Iraq and Afghanistan.
As well as those used for tactical communications, other units are being used for systems such as power distribution, IT networks and satellite communications.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 22 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Providing the technology that helps bring lessons alive.
Students require a stimulating learning environment to ensure that they fulfil their potential.
The London Borough of Lewisham is carrying out one of the most ambitious Building Schools for the Future programmes in the country, including the supply of an innovative and bespoke Information and Communications Technology ICT solution designed to improve the life chances of children and young people.
This is backed by leading suppliers and designed, implemented and supported by VT. VT is providing ICT managed services, including supplying the latest hardware and ongoing support, and transformational training with teachers and staff.
The commitment also involves supporting 15,500 students and hundreds of staff across the life of the project.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 23 The recently opened Catford High School offers students enhanced ICT, such as the art departments video wall, that lets students get up close to art in a way not possible using text books and traditional computers.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year 24 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 Delivering the news they need to know.
For the millions of people who live in less stable parts of the world, getting an impartial view of events can be very difficult.
To address this, Fondation Hirondelle was formed in 1995 and today broadcasts radio programmes in 30 different languages into areas suffering or recovering from conflict, ranging from West Africa to Nepal.
The foundation uses VT infrastructure to help them reach their audiences in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Fondation Hirondelles services for West Africa are controlled from VTs Media Management Centre in London.
This state-ofthe-art facility directs the programmes to the necessary sites in Southern England and South Africa, which then transmits the short-wave radio signals into the region.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 25 Every day throughout the year, VT carries radio programmes into the remotest areas of Africa, providing the population with valuable and trustworthy information.
Statutory information How we run the Group Explaining the Group Overview of the year
