34 VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 VT provides a wide range of logistic support services to the US Armys Aviation and Missile Command.
Our customer focus was demonstrated last year in the attainment of an exceptional rating in our annual performance evaluation.
VT Group Annual report and accounts 2009 35 VT Services Inc Highlights VT Services Inc is the US arm of VT Group Customer recognition: VT Services Inc won the and provides support services for the US US Army Directorate of Public Works DPW Turnover grew by 26% and Government, in particular the Department Support Contractor of the Year award for our underlying operating profit of Defense.
These services include facilities work at the Fort Stewart Hunter Army Airfield, by 64%.
The additional and logistics management, electronic Georgia installation.
The award, covering all nine-month contribution engineering, and communication systems US Army installations, honours excellence in of VT Aepco contributed installation and support.
contractual accomplishment and support of a significant portion of the installations DPW mission.
VT Services Inc the growth and margin 2009 performance provides a range of public works operations improvement.
and maintenance services at the Fort Secured follow-on task Further work with LOGSA: VT Services Inc Stewart Hunter Army Airfield locations.
order to support the oil has won the $40m 28m follow-on task analysis laboratories for order to support the oil analysis laboratories Going forward the US Army for the US Army Materiel Command Logistics Nearly $180m 126m Support Activity LOGSA in various US and The US defence budget is expected to of extension and renewal overseas locations.
increase by 4 per cent per annum.
There will contracts at various be increased focus on the intelligence services Contract extension and renewal: VT Services Inc locations and the upgrade and maintenance of existing has secured extensions to current contracts equipment.
We are well placed to address Achieved Exceptional and additional task orders at existing locations these priorities.
rating from US Army Aviation totalling some $180m 126m over the past Missile Command in annual year.
These include additional work at Kings performance evaluation Bay, Georgia: Camp Lejeune, North Carolina: and Huntsville, Alabama: plus contract extensions at Fort Stewart, Georgia, and Financial highlights Patrick Air Force Base, Florida.
Turnover m 303.2 2009 241.4 In 2008, VT was recognised as the US Army-wide 2008 0 100 200 300 400 Directorate of Public Works DPW Support Contractor of the Year.
This was for our work at Fort Stewart and Underlying operating profit m Hunter Army Airfield, Georgia, where over $52m 36m is now spent annually on public works and special projects.
