08 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way innOvaTivE 1 aCTiOn The Weir Groups reputation is built on the superiority of our materials and products, which deliver longer plant life, extend maintenance cycles, reduce downtime and lower whole-life operating costs.
We are committed to protecting this superiority, by investing in materials research and design, securing our intellectual property portfolio and focusing on bringing breakthrough developments to market ahead of the competition.
Innovation is not restricted to the development of our product portfolio through technological R&D.
It is about taking the initiative in introducing new products to existing customers and existing products to new markets: about being proactive and creative in delivering operational improvement and increasing customer focus.
Our strategy for growth includes an invitation to all our people to challenge received wisdom and established processes and to utilise the talent across Weir to provide innovative solutions for the real world challenges our customers are tackling.
Our people are encouraged to pursue more innovative service solutions for our installed equipment base to develop complementary products to maximise the offering to customers.
An innovative solution from Weirs Australian field service experts created significant savings for a New Zealand paper company after a blade failure on the plants geothermal steam turbine.
A six-month wait for replacement initially seemed the only option.
But design and manufacture of new blades using the latest computerised technologies and materials combined with Weirs project management skills and on-site installation expertise meant the turbine was back in action within a number of weeks.
Waterspider Flow Line Safety Restraint System Subsea innovation The Weir Multiflo waterspider is a Developed by Weir SPM, this bestIn ultra-deep subsea gas projects, floating pump platform for use in mine in-class safety product is mandated water vapour in the hydrocarbon gas fide-watering, enabling the ongoing on Shell offshore and onshore sites can freeze and requires Mono Ethylene cleaning of settling ponds which worldwide.
The Safety Restraint System Glycol MEG injection a type of previously had to be drained and is designed to help provide damage antifreeze to prevent costly hydrate mechanically fide-silted a costly control for line failures during highformation.
Weir Power & Industrials and time-consuming process.
pressure pumping and to prevent the rotary gate valve controls the level costly and potentially life-threatening of MEG injection without blockage effects of this.
Weir Oil & Gas, Fort Worth, USA 09 Our innovative actions are informed by customer focus and we will direct resources into targeted projects and specific challenges where we see both growing demand and the opportunity for leadership.
10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way COLLaBORaTivE 2 MinDSET The Weir Group has much to gain from maximising collaboration with our customers and between our divisions.
By co-operating on securing contracts, product development and territorial expansion, we create a collaborative mindset that is a key driver of growth.
Our aim is to work together as a group to present a more complete offering to customers.
To collaborate effectively requires a culture that is open and flexible, with working links between our businesses and territories.
Weir people are willing and able to work in partnership with each other, as well as with our customers and partners.
In 2010, we will look to further optimise our ability to operate to best effect across divisions and regions.
We are committed to building confidence in our own ever-expanding internal knowledge base.
The Weir Group supports and resources joint projects and cross-divisional initiatives in areas of operational excellence, such as product development, market research, low-cost sourcing and global supply chain.
We are investing in a Carbon Capture Initiative for this new segment of the power sector.
A cross-divisional working group is mapping the requirements and potential of the developing carbon capture and storage industry against our existing product portfolio, linked to our services capability and core competencies to create the best outcome for our customers and the Weir Group.
Canadian Oil Sands Improving process, reducing costs Nuclear opportunities The challenges of the Canadian Oil All our companies work continuously Businesses across the Power & Industrial Sands present opportunities for the with customers to improve process Division are collaborating to focus on combined expertise of our businesses.
One example is opportunities in the rapidly expanding Barge and pump package solutions the collaborative partnership between nuclear market, ensuring that Weir are becoming increasingly important Weir Minerals Australia and Worsley products have the relevant type approvals to our customers who operate in this Alumina, one of the worlds largest and certification to meet customer needs aggressive terrain.
Working closely alumina refineries, to develop a globally.
Specific market-focused teams, with customers, a number of Group purpose-designed cast metal Cavex such as the nuclear technology forum, companies led by Weir Minerals Canada hydrocyclone specifically for harsh comprise representatives from different have developed a range of barges caustic conditions, providing a long businesses with relevant engineering, able to be customised to suit individual term solution to productivity and technological or geographical market specifications and are seeing cost efficiencies.
From this base, we are early success.
working closely with customers including reactor builders such as Westinghouse and AREvA to develop an integrated product and service offering.
Weir Minerals, Sao Paulo, Brasil 11 Chief Executive Chief Executives r s review eview Collaboration within divisions is already driving growth and strengthening customer relationships: further interdivisional co-operation offers still greater opportunities.
12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Driving growth The Weir Way GLOBaL 3 CaPaBiLiTY Over 40% of the Groups revenue already comes from emerging markets in Asia, South America, Middle East and Africa.
There are clear and existing opportunities for us to further internationalise our products and services through our existing geographical network and to expand beyond this established base.
We have always been committed to going where our customers are, from the most challenging offshore oil production environment to the emerging power and energy markets of Asia and Africa.
Today, we have an unrivalled opportunity to leverage our presence in the fastest growing emerging markets, supported by our continuing commitment to operating discipline that will deliver quality products and services on time.
The broad geographical reach of the Group provides a global pipeline through which we can achieve more sales, in more territories, more effectively.
It gives us the local know-how that enables us to service our customers operations in the field and provides a platform for further expansion.
Our Total Care best practice service offering, developed in the South American mining market, is being expanded into new territories including North America and Africa: our Oil & Gas businesses are successfully extending their Middle East operations into the Caspian region while our Power & Industrial companies are putting in place a global supply chain using the Groups manufacturing capabilities.
Service Centre roll-out Minerals extends presence in China Nuclear capability Weir SPM provides industry leading Weir Minerals Netherlands stayed ahead Weir Power & Industrial is one of after-sales support for equipment, with of the competition to secure a contract only a few businesses with the global facilities located in many of the oil and for axial flow pumps for a major new salt capability to provide specialist valves gas industrys fastest growing markets.
plant in Jintan City, north of Shanghai, into the nuclear islands of the new third In 2009, we expanded our global due to open in 2010.
Already successful generation of nuclear power stations.
network of Service Centres into Mexico in China, Weir Minerals Netherlands With our business model closely aligned and the emerging Australian market, is planning to extend its footprint to that of the multi-national reactor meeting strong demand for repair and more permanently by establishing a builders, three of the divisions facilities recertification services where capital manufacturing unit in the country.
hold nuclear certification for a number expenditure has been limited by of safety critical valve products.
Weir Power & Industrial, Suzhou, China 13 Chief Executives review We have created an exceptional opportunity for growth, as we meet the needs of multi-national customers by leveraging our global footprint.
