54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Other statutory information Results and dividend Substantial shareholders A review of the results for the 53 weeks to 1 January 2010 is set At 9 March 2010, the Company had been notified in accordance out on pages 24 to 27. with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 16.2p per or more of the Companys issued share capital: share to be paid on 3 June 2010 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the Companys register of members at close of Date of Percentage of Number of disclosure to issued share business on 7 May 2010.
Together with the interim ordinary Shareholder shares Company capital dividend of 4.8p per share paid on 6 November 2009, this makes the total dividend for the year 21.0p.
Prudential plc 16,938,987 10 11 09 8.05% Business review Baillie Gifford & Co. 12,173,278 17 12 07 5.82% Aberdeen Asset Management plc 11,486,034 11 06 09 5.46% A review of the Groups business, its activities and performance, AXA S. A.
10,812,658 13 10 08 5.14% use of financial instruments, post balance sheet events and likely Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 10,802,934 17 02 09 5.14% future developments is on pages 2 to 56 inclusive.
The information Legal & General Assurance on these pages fulfills the current business review requirements.
Pensions Management Ltd 8,421,246 14 04 09 4.00% Barclays Global Investors 8,014,955 25 03 08 3.83% Principal activities FMR Corp 6,425,000 23 03 07 3.09% The Groups principal activity is the provision of specialised mechanical engineering solutions for a diversified range of industrial and geographic markets.
Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any Directors shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
No Details of the current directors of the Company are set out requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease on pages 28 and 29. would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may Jon Stanton is expected to be appointed a director in April 2010. increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power The directors who retire this year by rotation are Lord Smith, to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new Keith Cochrane and Alan Mitchelson.
Professor Ian Percy has shares under the LTIP.
announced he is to retire from the Board prior to the 2010 annual general meeting.
Material contracts There are no persons with whom the Company has contractual In accordance with article 97 of the existing articles of association or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the of the Company, Jon Stanton will retire at the forthcoming annual Company.
general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Lord Smith, Keith Cochrane and Alan Mitchelson also offer Research and development themselves for re-election.
During the year, the Group spent 9.7m 2008: 9.8m on research and development.
The expenditure reflects the Groups continued Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration and commitment to investment in research and development, applied interests in share awards are set out in the Remuneration report to both the development of new leading edge materials on pages 40 to 46. technologies and existing product innovation.
The Groups Directors indemnities worldwide pump technology centres focus on developing The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors engineering process improvements through the use of a variety in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the of analytical tools to design products with optimal wear life and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors improved safety and efficiency.
This maintains the Groups to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the competitive advantage in the market and controls costs whilst Companys articles of association.
In addition, directors and officers improving quality.
of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension Employment policy and involvement schemes are covered by directors & officers liability insurance.
The average number of employees in the Group during the year is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 73.
2010 annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at 11am on Wednesday Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, 12 May 2010 at the Burrell Collection, Glasgow.
The notice of practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and meeting along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions, country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, including the proposed amendments to the articles of association training and career development promote equality of opportunity and the LTIP, are set out in a separate circular to shareholders regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, which accompanies this annual report or can be downloaded disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
55 The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the During the year, the 2006 LTIP award vested and the trustees opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities of the Companys employees benefit trust EBT, Kleinwort and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, transferred 347,828 the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the LTIP awards using training, promotion and career development.
ordinary shares purchased by the EBT in the market.
A further 2,047 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
In addition, a total of 126,902 ordinary A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees shares, with an aggregate value of 18,204 were allotted during including a Group-wide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local the period in connection with the Companys sharesave scheme briefings.
These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling and the LTIP.
The sharesave scheme is now closed.
the development of a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance.
The EBT has agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by it.
Details of the shares held by Kleinwort Financial instruments Benson are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements The information required in respect of financial instruments on page 95.
The EBT holds, through its designated ESOP as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium Sized account nominee K. B CI Nominees Limited, 0.07% of the issued Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations share capital of the Company, as at 1 January 2010, in trust for 2008 is given in note 2 to the Group financial statements the benefit of certain executive directors and senior executives on page 67. of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The EBT may vote or abstain from Going concern voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue being required to give reasons for its decision.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Repurchase of shares the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have At the 2009 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 20.9m including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the directors ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under risk detailed in the review of the principal risks and uncertainties this authority during the 53 weeks to 1 January 2010 and, on pages 30 to 32 and in note 30 to the Group financial at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the Board will statements on pages 100 to 108.
Each of these items has been again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described for the Company to make market purchases.
on page 26 of the Financial review.
Voting rights Audit and auditors The Companys articles of association provide that on a show So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of information as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant share held.
The notice of the annual general meeting specifies audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy auditors are aware of that information.
or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the annual general meeting.
The Company conducts the vote at the A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys annual general meeting by electronic poll.
All proxy votes are auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p each, The articles of association may only be amended by a Special are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page Resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2009 Directors report Other statutory information continued Transfer of shares Directors statement of responsibilities There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and Company, other than as contained in the articles of association: the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer of any certificated Company law requires the directors to prepare financial share which is not fully paid up but not so as to prevent dealings statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors in listed shares from taking place and on which the Company have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with has a lien as a result of such share not being fully paid up.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company financial statements in The Board may also refuse to register any instrument of transfer accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
of a certificated share unless it is lodged at the registered office, or such other place as the Board may decide, for registration, In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require consistently: to prove title of the intending transferor.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws prudent: and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer of shares.
state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any Appointment and replacement of directors material departures being disclosed and explained: and The provisions about the appointment and re-election of directors of the Company are contained in the articles of association.
state for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Powers of directors subject to any material departures being disclosed The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may and explained.
exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys articles of association, any ordinary resolution The directors confirm that they have complied with the above of the Company and any relevant legislation.
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Change of control significant agreements Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the best of his knowledge that: the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Company.
the Directors report includes a fair review of the development The Company is party to nine bilateral credit agreements for a and performance of the business and the position of the total of 625m with various financial institutions expiring between Group, together with a description of the principal risks and 30 July 2011 and 1 September 2011.
Under the terms of these uncertainties that it faces.
agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 On 11 January 2010, the Company entered into various note and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible purchase agreements to issue an equivalent of US$250m five for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking year and eight year fixed rate notes in a combination of US reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and dollar and sterling at an average US dollar equivalent interest other irregularities.
Under the terms of the agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer Alan Mitchelson of prepayment by the Company.
Secretary Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board There are no agreements between the Company and its directors 9 March 2010 or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
