DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Company continue to be the design and manufacture of bespoke flexible pipeline products and systems for the oil and gas industry.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Company in the year are listed in note 15 to the financial statements.
The Company has operations in Newcastle upon Tyne UK, Panama City Florida USA, Niteri Brazil, Perth Australia, and offices in Rio fide Janeiro Brazil, including a branch in Houston USA, and Panama City USA.
Following the sale of FlexSteel the Company now retains an office in Houston and testing facilities in Panama City Florida.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Companies Act 2006 S 417 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group it heads, its development and performance during the year including an analysis of the position of the Company at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, the Business Review.
The following information detailed in these sections is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Chairmans statement on pages 7 to 8.
Chief Executives Review on pages 11 to 33 which contains key performance indicators, principal risks and uncertainties, business performance, future development, trends and strategy.
Finance Directors report on pages 35 to 37.
Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 23 to 24.
Key performance indicators on page 20.
Environmental, employees and social and community issues on pages 26 to 33.
Information about contractors essential to the business of the Company on page 43.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year and amounts transferred to reserves are detailed on pages 66 to 67.
A dividend of 6p per share is recommended by the directors for consideration of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2010.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 11 June 2010 to those members on the register at close of business on 21 May 2010.
An interim dividend of 4p per share was paid on 13 October 2009.
If the final dividend is approved as recommended, the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount to 10p per share.
DIRECTORS The directors, who served throughout the year and since except as noted, were as follows: John Kennedy appointed 8 March 2003 Neil Gaskell appointed 19 March 2007 Executive Chairman and member of the Nomination Committee Independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Gordon Chapman appointed 13 January 2003 Chief Executive Officer CEO Pat Murray appointed 10 July 2007 Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Christopher Braithwaite appointed 27 August 2004 Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Chief Operating Officer COO Committee Chris Gill appointed 7 January 2008 Francisco Gros appointed 19 March 2007 Finance Director FD Independent non-executive director and member Luis Araujo appointed 10 March 2009 of the Nomination and Renumeration Committees.
Executive Director and head of Wellstream Brazil Alasdair MacDonald appointed 21 September 2009 Executive Director, Acting CEO Sir Graham Hearne CBE appointed 18 July 2003 Senior Independent non-executive Director, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In accordance with Article 76 of the Companys Articles, Sir Graham Hearne, Francisco Gros and Pat Murray retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Alasdair MacDonald appointed 21 September 2009 resigns and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
The Board believes that all of the directors offering themselves for election or re-election should be elected or re-elected to their roles because of the contribution they have made to the success of the Company and because their experience is valuable for the future growth of the Company.
All directors who are due for election or re-election continue to perform effectively in terms of contribution, time commitment and commitment to the relevant Committees of the Board.
The rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles of the Company.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out further details on page 47.
POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, any directions given by special resolution and the Companys Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of shares are also included in the Articles subject to the relevant statutory provisions and the resolutions being proposed at the Annual General Meeting, as set out in the Notice of Meeting, include resolutions to renew such authorities.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out details of matters reserved to the Board on page 48.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The directors who held office at 31 December 2009 had the following interests in the shares and debentures of Wellstream Holdings PLC: 1 January 2009 or Description subsequent of shares or 31 December date of debentures 2009 appointment Name of Director Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial John Kennedy Ord 1p shares 2,140,625 2,140,625 Gordon Chapman Ord 1p shares 1,300,000 1,300,000 Chris Braithwaite Ord 1p shares 500,000 1,000,000 Sir Graham Hearne Ord 1p shares 300,000 300,000 Neil Gaskell Ord 1p shares 28,125 28,125 Pat Murray Ord 1p shares 18,500 18,500 Alasdair MacDonald Ord 1p shares 5,000 5,000 Luis Araujo Ord 1p shares 125,000 125,000 Held by Amko Energy SA.
No changes in the interests of directors took place between 31 December 2009 and the date of this report.
DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS None of the directors currently hold share options in the Company except under the Performance Share Plan and except Alasdair MacDonald who participates in the SAYE scheme.
Details of share option grants and vesting are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
42 43 DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL The following significant commercial agreements contain certain termination and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of the Company.
All Petrobras contracts follow their standard terms and conditions which provide for rights on a change of control.
The following are the current significant contracts: Flowlines and risers for Marlim Sul Module 2 in excess of 40m Water injection and gas lift flowlines for Marlim Leste in excess of 40m Flexible risers and flowlines for the Campos Basin in excess of 50m Barracuda Caratinga risers and flowlines in excess of 47m Petrobras Framework Agreement in excess of 600m over four years All the Companys share schemes have change of control provisions.
The Companys banking arrangements, including the revolving facility and the debenture, have change of control provisions.
There are no agreements between the Company or directors or employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
SIGNIFICANT SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS ESSENTIAL TO THE COMPANY In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we disclose the following which are considered to be essential suppliers or customers to the business.
Suppliers The suppliers are either single source suppliers or supply key materials.
We have long term supply agreements with these suppliers which helps mitigate the risk.
Bekaert Companies Global Carbon Steel Allegheny Ludlum Corporation Global Stainless Steel Solvay Solexis Global PVDF 3M Global High Strength Glass Filament Tapes Evonik Global Nylon PA12 Supply Trelleborg CRP Bend Stiffeners Customers Petrobras is a key customer to the business accounting for over 59% of sales in 2009.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY The Companys policy, which is applied by the Company, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2009 were equivalent to 47 days purchases 2008: 61 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS During the year the Group made charitable donations of 49,700 2008: 35,000 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
No political donations were made or EU political expenditure incurred during the year.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS On 2 March 2010 the Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Number of Number of Direct Indirect Total Name of Holder Shares Shares Shares Percentage Schroder Investment Management Europe Ltd 10,992,926 0 10,992,926 11.01% Janus Capital Management LLC 6,834,201 0 6,834,201 6.85% Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 0 5,329,459 5,329,459 5.34% Aegon Asset Management Plc 3,860,168 157,923 4,018,091 4.02% Legal & General Investment Management UK Ltd 3,882,925 0 3,882,925 3.89% DISABLED EMPLOYEES Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Company continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Company.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company recognises that it is part of the wider community and strives to act responsibly to promote the interests of the community.
Further details of the Companys approach and policies to these issues and their effectiveness are given on pages 26 to 33 of the Chief Executives Review.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS The Company is keen to promote employee involvement in the success and growth of the Company.
A Sharesave plan is in place and has been well received with over 65% of staff in the UK participating.
It is open to all UK employees who can elect to save up to 250 per month for three or five years and may then use the accumulated capital and interest to buy shares at the discounted price fixed at the beginning of the savings period.
An overseas plan equivalent to the UK plan, called the Overseas Sharesave plan was introduced in 2008 and gives overseas employees Share Appreciation Rights called SARs being an interest in the growth of the share price from a discounted price fixed at the beginning of the savings period.
44 45 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN During the year executive directors and senior employees were granted nominal cost share options which vest over a three year period when certain performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee are met.
Further details are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Shares have been issued under the Performance Share Plan and SAYE share scheme following the disposal of our onshore business, FlexSteel and a redundancy programme in Newcastle.
The first award under the Performance Share Plan in 2007 has vested in full as the targets were exceeded.
Further details are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Further details are provided in the Chief Executives Review on page 16 and Note 6 to the financial statements.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Information about the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of financial instruments is given in note 25.
The Company approved a hedging policy for foreign exchange limiting the total amount hedged to a maximum of 50% of the forecast net foreign currency cash flow in any six month period.
The Company utilises no other financial instruments.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE A special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to amend the Companys Articles of Association in order to update them to reflect the implementation of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This will include the deletion of any reference to the authorised share capital of the Company, as under the Companies Act 2006, the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital has been abolished.
The Companys issued share capital as at 29 March 2010 was 99,800,025, ordinary shares of 0.01 each, each credited as fully paid.
The only changes that took place to the share capital of the Company during the year were an issue of ordinary shares to the Chairman under his contract of engagement as more fully described on page 60 and the issue of shares under the employee share plans.
The resolutions being proposed at the Annual General Meeting include resolutions to allow the directors to allot ordinary shares and to disapply pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, in line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on transfer or voting of securities in the Company and there are no agreements known to the Company which might result in such restrictions.
There are no shareholders carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
No shares held by employee share schemes of the Company have rights regarding control of the Company that are not directly exercisable by employees.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 12 May 2009, the Company was authorised, to purchase up to 9,964,225 of its own shares at a price between the nominal value and 105 per cent of the market price.
The resolutions being proposed at the Annual General Meeting include a resolution to renew this authority.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to amend the Companys Articles of Association in order to update them to reflect the implementation of the final provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009.
It is proposed that the new Articles will take effect immediately following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
A resolution will be placed before the Annual General Meeting to preserve the ability of the Company to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice in exceptional circumstances.
An ordinary resolution will be put to shareholders approval concerning the introduction of a share incentive plan, further details of which are given on pages 113 to 114.
An explanation of the resolutions is attached to the Notice of Meeting on pages 109 to 112.
Shareholders are being asked to choose how they wish the Company to communicate with them, either electronically, by paper or through the website.
A letter to shareholders accompanies this report.
AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a director at the date of this annual report confirms that, in respect of the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2009: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Wellstream Holdings PLC Company number 4601199 By order of the Board Rob Lamb Company Secretary 15 March 2010 46 47
