Delivering Production within the Water Column Deepwater Systems Types FPSO Fixed Platform Compliant New Tower Conventional Semi-FPU Generation Truss Classic TLP Spar Spar Min DOC Cell Control Subsea TLP Spar Buoy Tieback Subsea Manifold WELLSTREAM THE COMPANY IS A LEADING Wellstream has been working in partnership forces of a marine specific environment but INDEPENDENT DESIGNER, with the oil and gas industry for well over also the characteristics of the transported MANUFACTURER AND INSTALLER two decades to develop flexible flowline and fluids, which are often highly corrosive OF HIGH QUALITY BESPOKE riser solutions.
In that time the Company and at high temperatures and pressures.
FLEXIBLE PIPELINE PRODUCTS, has responded to rapidly changing industry SYSTEMS AND SOLUTIONS FOR The stresses imposed on a flexible riser trends by constantly expanding its product OIL AND GAS TRANSPORTATION.
vary considerably relative to the distance portfolio and service offering.
from the surface or seabed.
Wellstreams Our pipeline portfolio includes established The offshore marine environment provides design engineers ensure every flexible product lines such as dynamic flexible an exceptionally harsh operating riser is capable of meeting a service life risers and static flowlines, for deep and environment, even in the most benign of sea in excess of 20 years and that it will ultra-deepwater environments, and high conditions.
Although offshore installations additionally withstand extreme wave events temperature high pressure products were first used as far back as 1946 in the that may occur during its operational life.
With over 850 Gulf of Mexico, it was the advent of floating In the 10 years since Wellstream became employees, Wellstream has offices and production systems from the mid-1970s the first flexible pipe supplier to qualify facilities in the UK, Brazil, USA and which enabled the development of remote flexible pipe structures for operation in Australia.
Further information regarding subsea reservoirs that has driven the 2,000m water depth WD, we have Wellstream and its products and subsea industry to where it is today.
continued to push the boundaries of services can be accessed at Flexible riser technology was a key enabler flexible pipe technology to meet the www.
for these floating production systems, challenges of subsea production.
The business, founded in 1983, sets out which now operate in water depths in Current challenges faced include the to pursue its strategic aim of providing excess of 2,000m and have a capacity development of structures that can resist innovative technologies and services to store 2 million barrels of oil in locations the high pressure characteristics of that facilitate cost effective, reliable many hundreds of kilometres from the deepwater developments in the Gulf of hydrocarbon production within the nearest coastline.
Flexible pipe is Mexico and the qualification of polymers Water Column.
manufactured with unbonded concentric and steels to resist the highly corrosive layers of metallic wires, tapes and extruded production fluids present in the giant polymers that form a structure which can Pre-Salt discoveries offshore Brazil.
withstand not only the constantly changing 02 03 Courtesy: Mustang Engineering Computer generated model of an end fitting body with seal ring assembly.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 WHO WE ARE & WHAT WE DO
