Key Design Considerations Gross structural integrity Local analysis tension, pressure - Material behaviour Riser interaction - Flexlok stress analysis clashing, interference - Corrosion fatigue and entanglement - Material compatibility Fatigue curvature and tension ranges Collapse On-Bottom Stability Upheaval Buckling Touch down point - Abrasion - Local armour buckling bird-caging CASE STUDIES Carcass Flexbody GULF OF MEXICO: Duplex steel carcass to prevent ANADARKO CAESAR TONGA collapse under external HIGH PRESSURE hydrostatic pressure equivalent to 1T sq inch@1,500m Awarded to Wellstream in August 2008, Internal Pressure the contract from Anadarko for the Sheath Flexbarrier supply of two 2,300m 15,000psi risers Triple layer pvdf, forming the boundary for conveyed high represented a major technical and temperature fluids manufacturing challenge: more typical Interlocked Pressure risers are designed to operate in 1,500m Armour Flexlok WD with 6,000psi pressures.
The & Flexpress layers To resist internal & external qualification programme for this contract pressure in the hoop direction required new materials and designs to to 30,000psi twice operating pressure meet the operating requirements.
The Inner Layer & Outer Layer resulting structure is one of the most of Tensile Armour complex ever produced by Wellstream Flextensile Provides both hoop and and the industry.
axial strength Since the first samples of the qualification Insulating Layer Flexinsul 8 layers of syntactic foam to pipe were produced in late 2008, protect against heat loss excellent results have been achieved Outer Sheath Flexshield enabling manufacture to commence for To protect against seawater ingress and other mechanical delivery in early 2010.
Two successful damage burst tests have achieved pressures in excess of 33,000psi.
Dynamic bending and tension fatigue tests have been completed, simulating over 125 years service.
These tests will continue to destruction equivalent to over 1,000 years service.
04 05 Fluid Transfer Line Risers Flowlines Wellstream products shown in yellow.
BRAZIL PRESALT: TUPI As a result, Wellstream has been development of technically challenging PROJECT ILLUSTRATION awarded a number of key contracts to fields where production fluids are highly AND NEW WELLSTREAM supply flexible products for further phases corrosive, at extreme temperature or RECORD of the TUPI project the first major pressure or where significant insulation In 2009, first commercial production development in the Pre-Salt.
is required to ensure the temperature began of the giant Pre-Salt discoveries in of the production fluid is maintained Flexible pipelines have many advantages 2,000m to 2,500m water depths and up subsea tie backs where the seabed is over the traditional alternative steel rigid to 300km offshore Brazil in the Santos uneven, space is restricted or the field pipe.
These include the ability to provide: Basin.
Although it is too early accurately layout is complex.
to estimate the potential of this cluster of superior fatigue resistance which means discoveries, industry analysts have As water depths increase and reservoirs they are often the only technical solution provisionally estimated that there could become more technically challenging, for connecting floating production be over 30 billion barrels of recoverable flexible pipe becomes mission critical.
vessels to wells on the seabed in highly reserves in the area requiring more than From 2007 to 2009, Wellstream dynamic marine environments 40 FPSO Floating Production Storage produced approximately 40% of the cost effective installation solutions and Offloading vessels.
through reduced installation times and Wellstream has played a major role in utilisation of a wide range of offshore Customers include major oil & gas the development of the first commercial installation vessels companies such as Petrobras, BP, project, the 6.5bn barrel TUPI field, having Chevron, ExxonMobil and BHP Billiton: staged development, allowing been awarded the entire flexible pipe scope Independent Oil Companies such as customers to utilise early production for the TUPI Extended Well Test EWT.
Apache, Anadarko Petroleum, Devon technologies which generate early cash This comprised technically challenging Energy and Addax Petroleum: as well flows and reduce development risk 4 inch gas lift and 6 inch production as oilfield services companies such as reductions in project execution risk risers and flowlines.
Wellstreams flexible Subsea 7 and Saipem.
through parallel execution of major pipes have now been supplied and elements of the project including drilling, Wellstreams success is based on strong installed and are currently operating at construction of the production facility technology supported by continuous 2,140m water depth, establishing a new and installation of the subsea facilities research and development, industry record for Wellstreams flexible pipes.
leading engineering and manufacturing reduced costs for future developments These high technology flexible pipes processes and a focus on working through re-use of existing flexible have proven to be an effective solution collaboratively with customers and pipelines for the Pre-Salt development.
WELLSTREAM HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 WHO WE ARE & WHAT WE DO Niteri site with adjacent leased land.
