1 Directors Report and Accounts Directors report The directors present their report Subject to approval at the Annual shares present in person or by proxy and accounts for the year ended General Meeting, the fi final dividend and entitled to vote has one vote and on 26 February 2009.
The Directors report will be payable on 10 July 2009 to a poll every member present in person incorporates by reference, to the extent shareholders on the register at the close or by proxy and entitled to vote has indicated below, certain information of business on 8 May 2009. one vote for every ordinary share held.
included in the Annual Review and Voting rights for any ordinary shares held Summary Report and should be read Board of directors in treasury are suspended.
None of the in conjunction with that document.
The directors at the date of this report are ordinary shares carry any special rights listed on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual with regard to control of the Company.
Principal activities and review Review.
All except for Patrick Dempsey Electronic and paper proxy appointments of business and Stephen Williams served throughout and voting instructions must be received The principal activity of the Group is the year.
Patrick Dempsey joined the by the Companys Registrars not later the operation of hotels, restaurants and Board on 1 January 2009.
Stephen than i 48 hours before a meeting or coffee shops.
These operations are Williams joined the Board on 27 April 2008 adjourned meeting, or ii 24 hours largely carrried out in the UK, although and became Senior Independent Director before a poll is taken, if the poll is not Premier Inn operates one hotel in on 1 October 2008.
Rod Kent resigned taken on the same day as the meeting or Ireland and another in Dubai via a joint from the Board on 31 March 2008. adjourned meeting.
Costa operates coffee shops in 24 international markets through joint Patrick Dempsey will stand for election Unless the directors decide otherwise, a ventures or on a franchise basis.
Details and Alan Parker will stand for re-election at shareholder cannot attend or vote shares of the Groups activities, developments the forthcoming AGM in accordance with at any general meeting of the Company and performance for the year, the main the Companys Articles of Association.
or at any separate general meeting of trends and factors likely to affect its the holders of any class of shares in the future development and performance and Details of the directors service contracts Company or upon a poll or exercise any information required by the Companies are given in the remuneration report on other right conferred by membership in Act 2006 relating to the business review page 11.
None of the non-executive relation to general meetings or polls if he are set out in the Chairmans statement, directors has a service contract.
has not paid all amounts relating to those the Chief Executives review, the Finance shares which are due at the time of the Directors review and the corporate Share capital meeting.
responsibility report on pages 1 to 17 Throughout the year, the authorised of the Annual Review and Summary share capital has been 319.89 million Restrictions on transfer of shares Report and in the section entitled risks divided into 410,170,050 ordinary shares There are the following restrictions on the 122 and uncertainties on pages 4 and 5 of of 76 p each representing 98.47% transfer of shares in the Company: 153 this document.
Details of the Companys of the total share capital, 265 million WINcard, containing the key performance B non-cumulative preference shares of certain restrictions which may from indicators can be found on page 18 of 1 penny each representing 0.83% of time to time be imposed by laws and the Annual Review.
the total share capital and 224 million regulations for example, insider trading C non-cumulative preference shares of laws : Results and dividends 1 penny each representing 0.70% of the total share capital.
pursuant to the Companys share dealing Group profi t before tax and code, the directors and senior executives exceptional items from Details of the issued share capital can of the Company require approval to deal 1 continuing operations 229.9m be found in note 31 to the accounts.
in the Companys shares: Group profi t before tax Holders of ordinary shares are entitled where a person with at least a 0.25% and after exceptional items to attend and speak at general meetings interest in a class of shares has been from continuing operations 198.6m of the Company, to appoint one or more served with a disclosure notice and proxies and, if they are corporations, has failed to provide the Company with Interim dividend paid corporate representatives to attend information concerning interests in on 6 January 2009 9.65p general meetings and to exercise voting those shares: per share rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation the subscriber ordinary shares may not Recommended fi final dividend 26.90p may share in the assets of the Company.
be transferred without the prior written per share Holders of ordinary shares are entitled consent of the directors: to receive the Companys annual report Total dividend for the year 36.55p and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain the directors can, without giving any per share thresholds, holders of ordinary shares reason, refuse to register the transfer of may requisition a general meeting of the any shares which are not fully paid: and 1 Continuing operations Company or the proposal of resolutions Continuing operations comprises Whitbread at annual general meetings.
transfers cannot be in favour of more Hotels and Restaurants and Costa plus the than four joint holders.
supply chain sales to third parties but excludes Voting rights any discontinued businesses David Lloyd On a show of hands at a general meeting The Company is not aware of any Leisure disposed of during 2007 08. of the Company every holder of ordinary agreements between shareholders that www.
co. uk annualreport0809 2 Directors Report and Accounts Directors report continued Contractual arrangements may result in restrictions on the transfer The Company may by special resolution The Group has contractual arrangements of shares or on voting rights.
remove any director before the expiration with numerous third parties in support of of his term of offi ce.
its business activities, none of which are B shares and C shares considered individually to be essential Holders of B shares and C shares Any director automatically stops being to its business and, accordingly, it has are entitled to receive an annual nona director if i he gives the Company a not been considered necessary for an cumulative preferential dividend calculated written notice of resignation, ii he gives understanding of the development, at a rate of 75% of 6 month LIBOR on the Company a written notice in which he performance or position of the Groups a value of 155 pence per B share and offers to resign and the directors decide business to disclose information about 159 pence per C share respectively, but to accept this offer, iii all of the other any of those third parties.
are not entitled to any further right of directors who must comprise at least participation in the profi ts of the Company.
three people pass a resolution or sign Compensation for loss of offi ce They are also entitled to payment of 155 a written notice requiring the director to There are no agreements between the pence per B share and 159 pence per C resign, iv he is or has been suffering Company and its directors or employees share respectively on a return of capital from mental ill health and the directors providing for compensation for loss of on winding-up excluding any intra-group pass a resolution removing the director offi ce or employment that occurs as a reorganisation on a solvent basis.
from offi ce, v he has missed directors result of a takeover bid.
meetings whether or not an alternate Except in limited circumstances, the holders director appointed by him attends those Supplier payment policy of the B shares and C shares are not meetings for a continuous period of The Company has no trade creditors entitled, in their capacity as holders of six months without permission from 28 February 2008: nil.
The Group keeps such shares, to receive notice of any the directors and the directors pass a to the payment terms which have been general meeting of the Company nor to resolution removing the director from agreed with suppliers.
Where payment attend, speak or vote at any such general offi ce, vi a bankruptcy order is made terms have not been specifi cally agreed, meeting.
against him or he makes any arrangement it is the Groups policy to settle invoices or composition with his creditors close to the end of the month following Employee share schemes generally, vii he is prohibited from the month of invoicing.
The Groups ability Whitbread does not have any employee being a director under any applicable to keep to these terms is dependent share scheme with shares which have legislation, or viii he ceases to be a upon suppliers sending accurate and rights with regard to the control of the director under any applicable legislation adequately detailed invoices to the correct Company that are not exercisable directly or he is removed from offi ce under the address on a timely basis.
The Group by the employees.
had 46 days purchases outstanding at 26 February 2009 28 February 2008: 49 Appointment and replacement Amendment of the Companys Articles days, based on the trade creditors at that of directors of Association date and purchases made during the year.
Directors shall be no less than two and Any amendments to the Articles of no more than twenty in number.
Directors Association of the Company may be Major interests may be appointed by the Company by made in accordance with the provisions As at 24 April 2009, the Company had ordinary resolution or by the Board of of the Companies Acts by way of special been notifi ed of the following interests directors.
A director appointed by the resolution.
of 3% or more of the voting rights of Board holds offi ce until the next Annual the Company pursuant of Rule 5 of the General Meeting and is then eligible for Powers of the directors Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The business of the Company is managed by the directors who may exercise all the At every Annual General Meeting the powers of the Company, subject to the No.
of % of following directors shall retire from offi ce: Companys Memorandum and Articles of shares issued Association, any relevant legislation and share any directions given by the Company by Any director who has been appointed capital passing a special resolution at a general by the directors since the last Annual meeting.
In particular, the directors may General Meeting: Legal & General 11,985,398 6.75% exercise all the powers of the Company Any director who held offi ce at the time to borrow money, issue shares, appoint of the two preceding Annual General Schroders Plc 10,531,421 5.35% and remove directors and recommend Meetings and who did not retire at and declare dividends.
either of them: and Black Rock 8,727,235 5.00% Any director who has been in offi ce, Signifi cant agreements other than as a director holding an AXA SA 8,675,788 4.97% The Companys facility agreements, executive position, for a continuous details of which can be found in note period of nine years or more at the Standard Life 7,894,946 4.53% 24 to the accounts, contain provisions date of the meeting.
Investments entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event Any director who retires at an annual of a change of control of the Company.
general meeting may offer himself for reappointment by the shareholders.
co. uk annualreport0809 3 Charitable and political donations shareholders.
Five million of the shares In total, 2.7 million C shares of 1 penny No direct charitable donations have been held in treasury representing 2.58% of each, representing 0.02% of the total made by the Company.
The Whitbread the total called up share capital at the called up share capital at the beginning Charitable Trust made donations totalling beginning of the year were cancelled of the year, were acquired during the year 249,762 during the year.
Costa Limited, during the year.
14.8 million shares at a cost of 4.4 million, as part of the a subsidiary of the Company, made a representing 7.61% of the total called strategy to return value to shareholders.
All direct donation of 150,000 to the Costa up share capital at the beginning of the of these shares have now been cancelled.
Further details about the year are held as treasury shares.
The Costa Foundation can be found on maximum number of ordinary shares Auditor page 16 of the Annual Review.
held in treasury during the year ended Ernst & Young LLP have expressed 26 February 2009 was 19,188,806 on 27 their willingness to continue in office as The Company has not made any political June 2008 representing 9.89% of the auditor of the Company and a resolution donations during the year and intends to total called up share capital at that time.
proposing their reappointment will be put continue its policy of not doing so for the to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
At the 2008 AGM the Company was proper consideration, the Audit authorised to purchase its C shares Committee is satisfied that the Employment policies pursuant to a proposed contract between Companys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, Whitbread has a range of employment Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and continues to be objective and policies covering such issues as the Company.
In coming diversity, employee well-being and equal opportunities.
Directors share interests The interests of directors and their connected persons at the end of the year in the 122 The Company takes its responsibilities to ordinary shares of 76 p each in the Company are shown below: 153 the disabled seriously and seeks not to Held at Held at discriminate against current or prospective 26 02 2009 28 02 2008 employees because of any disability.
Employees who become disabled during Anthony Habgood 50,797 30,797 their career at Whitbread will be retained in employment wherever possible and given Alan Parker 65,263 65,263 help with rehabilitation and training.
1 Patrick Dempsey 1,984 1,984 Employee involvement The importance of good relations and Christopher Rogers 14,319 14,319 communications with employees is fundamental to the continued success W endy Becker 2,500 2,500 of our business.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee Philip Clarke 3,797 3,797 relations and consults employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
Charles Gurassa 1,821 1,821 Regular internal communications are made to all employees to ensure that they Simon Melliss 1,500 1,500 are kept well informed of the performance of the Group.
1 Stephen Williams 4,000 Directors indemnity 2 Rod Kent 1,952 1,952 A qualifying indemnity provision as defined in Section 236 1 of the The share interests shown above include the non-beneficial interests of Anthony Companies Act 2006 is in force for 122 Habgood in 522 ordinary shares of 76 p each.
Patrick Dempsey holds awards 153 the benefit of the directors.
under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Leadership Group Incentive Scheme which are due to vest on 28 April 2009.
Patrick has indicated that he intends to Purchase of own shares retain a significant proportion of these shares.
The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares in the market.
Approval 1 at date of appointment to renew this authority for a further year 2 at date he stepped down from the Board will be sought from shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Further details regarding the interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including with respect to options to acquire ordinary shares, are set out In total 1.6 million ordinary shares of in the remuneration report.
122 76 p each representing 0.85% of 153 the total called up share capital at the There have been no changes in the interests of directors between the balance sheet beginning of the year were acquired date and the date of approval of the accounts.
during the year at a cost of 20.0 million as part of the strategy to return value to www.
