26 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Our values in action Our people are our most valuable asset and our success relies on our people delivering great service to our customers each and every day.
124,000 Our aim is to attract, motivate and develop skilled people to employees across the business ensure that Morrisons becomes the food specialist for everyone.
At the end of 2006, Morrisons conducted its first colleague attitude survey Climate Survey which showed that whilst we had strengths in a number of areas, we could still Our values improve.
In 2007, we set out a programme of activity designed to support the business Can do optimisation and growth agenda, focused on four areas: Values, Leadership, Talent and Getting things done Performance.
We have implemented a structured set of policies in each area.
Values Fresh thinking Always looking for new and better Our values define what we expect of our employees and what our customers can ways of doing things expect from us.
This year has seen a large scale education programme to fully integrate these values into every day behaviours at Morrisons.
In total, over 120,000 One team employees have taken part in the interactive Vision and Values workshops.
Working well together Additionally, every new employee experiences our Vision and Values programme as part of their induction.
Focusing forward, we want to ensure that our values sit at the Great selling and service heart of everything we do by integrating them into our recognition programmes and We love to sell and serve education frameworks.
Bringing the best out of Leadership our eople p Great leadership is critical to us bringing the best out of our people.
We involved a Were constantly learning and looking to improve on where we are cross section of senior managers in a number of steering groups, who helped shape how our values could be mapped onto our leadership agenda.
A set of leadership Great shopkeeping profiles, outlining leadership styles and what leadership actually looks like in action, Setting high standards in all areas was one of the primary outputs of this exercise.
of the business Our leadership development initiatives, such as the Leading the Morrisons Way programme, aim to further develop and enhance the future of our business and Ratio of internal versus external appointments % senior leadership careers.
100 Talent Internal External We strongly believe that everyone has talent and we actively look to develop people 80 from within to meet the growing demands of the business.
The Fresh Food Academy, launched in 2009, will strengthen Morrisons position as 60 the UKs leading proponent of retail craft food skills: skills which help people build a career, and help Morrisons further increase the quality, value and service we provide 40 to our customers.
Over the coming year, as part of its store expansion, Morrisons will create 5,000 new jobs.
The jobs will be created across the business in a variety of 20 Target positions including butchery, fishmonger and bakery.
The Academy will play a key Internal role in developing people in these roles.
0 External 2008 2009 2010 target The Fresh is Best programme focuses on engaging and training managers around By engaging and training our consistently delivering market leading availability, product presentation and quality, employees, we aim to retain our talent preparing the freshest product, maintaining standards, reducing wastage and giving and increase the ratio of internal great selling and service.
By demonstrating what good and fresh is we are helping appointments within management.
managers to maintain and improve standards.
The I Want a Fresh Start campaign, launched in 2008, completely redefined our approach to attracting and recruiting fresh talent into the business.
Our new dedicated recruitment website, www.
com, allows candidates to apply online for careers at Morrisons.
National advertising has raised the profile of Morrisons as an Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 27 employer, evidenced by the high interest and number of applications for our Key Performance Indicators management positions.
Our revised attraction strategy has, so far, resulted in over 4,500 applications and the appointment of 50 key retail managers.
Employee stability % Performance 78 Setting clear expectations sets the benchmark for a high performing culture.
In this 76 71 r espect we have started a general role evaluation programme across the business to enhance career advancement.
The output of workshops held across all sectors of the business is being used to create live documents that give greater clarity around role requirements, and how we expect people to focus not only on what they deliver but also on how they deliver it.
Communication is also playing a key role in the delivery of our high performance culture.
In November 2008, we launched Gimme 5 briefings to strengthen our communication across the business and create a more committed and productive workplace.
These are five minute, face-to-face monthly departmental briefings and 2007 2008 2009 are based on messages cascaded down through the business, starting with Marc Bolland.
Colleagues are encouraged to ask questions and provide feedback on the In 2008, we conducted an employee topics covered.
satisfaction survey to assess our progress against our four KPIs.
We are Employee relations pleased with our overall improvement Morrisons is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are offered to all, in performance and we recognise there r egardless of race, colour, nationality, religion, sex, marital status, disability or age.
is even more we can achieve.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled Climate survey results candidates and employees who have a disability, or who become disabled during Four KPIs the course of their employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is Pride undertaken and, where practical, modifications are made to the work environment Loyalty or business practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
Satisfaction Commitment All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and practices.
All decisions are based on merit.
Employee engagement Net improvement Engaged and involved employees are important to the success of our business and values.
Employees are encouraged to give their opinions through the Climate Surveys.
The Climate Survey conducted at the end of 2008 covered all colleagues 12% across all areas of the business, seeking opinion on a range of areas such as job satisfaction, team environment and management.
From the survey we have Four of the KPIs in our colleague attitude survey identified four key indicators of engagement centring on employee pride, loyalty, focus on engagement.
These show a net satisfaction and commitment.
These key indicators have provided us with a summary improvement of 12%.
of the progress and shows a net improvement of 12% from our last survey.
We will continue to track these four areas in our next Climate Survey.
Employee stability is measured as the percentage of employees who have been with us for over one year.
Other ways in which we involve our employees are through the development and communication of the Values principles, and through the Gimme 5 briefings where employees are encouraged to give feedback.
All employees participate in either the Profit Share Scheme or Management Bonus Plan, ensuring that everyone feels a part of the challenges and successes of the organisation.
Our employee turnover rate has improved and our employee stability has risen 2% to 78%.
Moreover, some 33% of our employees have been with us for at least five years, with 164 celebrating 25 years service in 2009.
This is a clear sign that we create an environment where colleagues feel proud to work for us.
