28 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Board of Directors Sir Ian Gibson Chairman Sir Ian Gibson aged 62 joined the Group as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in September 2007.
He was appointed Chairman, following the retirement of Sir Ken Morrison, in March 2008.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Trinity Mirror PLC.
Previous Board appointments include Chairman of BPB PLC, Deputy Chairman of Asda Group PLC, and a Director of Chelys Limited, GKN PLC, Greggs Plc and Northern Rock Plc.
He is also a former member of the Court of the Bank of England.
Sir Ian enjoyed a distinguished 30-year career in the motor industry, most recently as President of Nissan Europe.
Marc Bolland Chief Executive Marc Bolland aged 49 joined the Group in September 2006 as Chief Executive.
Previously, he was Chief Operating Officer and executive board member at Heineken NV, based in the Netherlands.
He held a number of senior roles at Heineken over the last 20 years, including having responsibility for the brand and marketing strategies.
He is also currently a NonExecutive Director of Manpower Inc in the USA.
Mark Gunter Group Retail Director Mark Gunter aged 50 joined the Group in 1986 as a Store General Manager.
In 1993 he was appointed Regional Director and subsequently Stores Director in 1999.
He was appointed to the Board of the Group in 2000 as Group Store Operations Director with additional responsibility for retail operations, retail fuel, retail projects and Company-wide security.
Prior to joining Morrisons, he gained wide experience in UK food retailing, which included working at Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco, Argyll Foods and Asda.
Martyn Jones Group Trading Director Martyn Jones aged 50 joined the Group in 1990 as Trading Manager for frozen foods before being promoted to Trading Operations Director in 1993.
He was appointed Grocery Director in 1997 and then Senior Trading Director in 2002.
He was appointed to the Board as Group Trading Director in March 2007.
Richard Pennycook Group Finance Director Richard Pennycook aged 45 joined the Board as Group Finance Director in October 2005.
Prior to that, he was the Group Finance Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist motoring and vehicle management company.
Previous senior roles include Group Finance Director of H P Bulmer Holdings PLC, Laura Ashley Plc and J D Wetherspoon plc and Chief Executive of Welcome Break Holdings plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Persimmon Plc.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 29 Paul Manduca Senior Independent Director Paul Manduca aged 57 was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and became the Chair of the Audit Committee from October 2005.
He is also Chairman of Aon UK Limited and Henderson Diversified Income plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Development Securities PLC, JPMF European Fledgling Investment Trust Plc, JSC KazMunaiGas Exploration Production Plc, as well as other companies.
He was the Chairman of Bridgewell Group plc until August 2007, when it was sold to Landsbanki Securities UK Ltd.
Prior to that, he was the Global CEO of Rothschild Asset Management Limited and CEO of Deutsche Asset Management Europe.
Brian Flanagan Brian Flanagan aged 56 was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of The Financial Services Authority and is an advisor to Jet Environmental Systems.
Previously he worked for the Mars Corporation for 26 years and possesses broad international business experience.
He has held senior management positions in finance, information systems, manufacturing, purchasing and was, most recently, the global Vice President of Business Transformation for Mars Inc. Susan Murray Susan Murray aged 52 was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and became the Chair of the Remuneration Committee from October 2005.
Currently, she is a Non-Executive Director of Compass Group plc, Enterprise Inns plc and Imperial Tobacco Group Plc.
She is a council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
Nigel Robertson Nigel Robertson aged 49 joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2005.
Working in the private equity sector, he is the Group Chief Executive of Covenant Healthcare Ltd. Until the business was sold in 2007 he was the Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea Stores Holdings Ltd and he was previously the Managing Director of Ocado, the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Waitrose.
Prior to this he held senior positions in Marks and Spencer Group PLC both in the UK and USA.
