18 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Our strategy In this section we describe our three year strategy, which started in 2007 08 and builds on our historical strengths of value and fresh food offer.
Vision Our vision is to be the Food Specialist for Everyone.
We have three distinct brand values: Fresh, Value and Service.
Having these three brand values gives us the flexibility to react to market changes and consumer trends.
Brand values Fresh Value Service Demonstrated Vertical integration in the Keeping costs low to ensure Ensuring the right product through supply chain.
Great value across our ranges.
Great selling and service for our customers.
Commentary We aim to offer more freshly Value is key to our vision and is By having our own distribution prepared food than any other especially important in the current network, we can ensure the retailer.
Thats because we have market conditions.
We offer quality right products are always available more staff preparing food than and freshness at a price people like.
Our staff are any other supermarket.
We are Our famous promotional offers skilled and know their trade and vertically integrated by having our always save our customers money.
they give our customers what own factories, production facilities We dont just offer value on a few they want fresh food served and distribution network.
With items our prices are great value by helpful, friendly, well-trained these facilities we can get food across the ranges.
With our commitment to to our stores faster so that its great selling and service we aim always fresher.
to get it right for our customers every time.
Positioning We measure customer perceptions against the other top four grocery retailers based on exit interviews and on-line surveys, the latest of which was taken in January 2009.
This survey indicated that our customers viewed our position against each of our brand values as: Fresh Value Service improving, now strong held our strong position held our strong position Progress We believe customer perceptions of our fresh offer have improved due to our efforts to demonstrate this message over the last two years.
We are pleased that Value and Service have retained their strong position whilst we tried hard to show our Fresh credentials.
For more information on Our Our Success at Morrisons relies on our 124,000 people delivering great employees values in action, see pages 26 to 27. service to our customers each and every day by living our values.
While being In a survey of 400 shoppers conducted in October 2008, in answer For more information on our a responsible to the question What makes a responsible and ethical retailer?
Corporate Social Responsibility and ethical approximately 90% answered They charge fair prices.
strategy, see pages 24 to 25. retailer Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 19 Delivering We believe our strategy has delivered, and will continue to deliver, strongly improved results profit margins for our shareholders, whilst positioning the Group for long term growth.
Financial Sales growth that exceeds Earnings that meet the objectives that of the market expectations of shareholders Commentary Sales growth, particularly organic growth, is key Sales growth needs to be converted into profitable to retail success and long term expansion.
We aim to strongly improve profit margins to grow grocery like-for-like sales faster than whilst positioning for long term growth.
Measures of Like-for-like sales growth in excess success of the market % Underlying basic earnings per share pence 2007 2008 2009 2009 16.7 Like-for-like 2008 14.4 sales growth ex-fuel 5.2 4.6 7.9 2007 8.3 Market growth rate 4.0 3.5 5.6 Like-for-like sales growth in excess of the market 1.2 1.1 2.3 Like-for-like sales growth in excess of the market % Total dividend pence per share 2009 2.3 2009 5.8 2008 1.1 2008 4.8 2007 1.2 2007 4.0 Source: Nielsen like-for-like sales growth for 52 weeks to our year end Balance sheet The Group is securely financed and has a strong balance sheet.
Our balance sheet strategy is based on strategy the following principles: Principle Commentary Maintain operational control of 95% of our estate is freehold.
Planned investments funded We are confident that our planned Optimisation through existing facilities.
Plan investments for the next two years can be met from existing financing facilities.
Maintain strong investment grade Our credit rating improved to Baa1 in March 2008 balance sheet.
and we received a further upgrade in March 2009 to A3.
We are one of only three European retailers to have this rating, which is the highest in this sector.
Sustain funded pension schemes on We continue to take actions to ensure that the IAS 19 basis.
schemes are adequately funded for the long term.
