20 Morrisons Annual report and financial statements 2009 Our business model What makes Morrisons different from other supermarkets is that we control our supply chain we are closer to source by cutting out the middleman.
The advantages of this business model are: our customers get great value for money and fresh food at great prices: and we can react earlier to consumer trends and bring seasonal food in-store quicker than other supermarkets.
Being closer to source means we can better control the provenance and quality of our food.
Ethical and From sustainable sourcing is important to us and we work with the producers to develop a relationship that is selection... reasonable and fair to all parties.
We own all our manufacturing facilities, which means we reduce our supply chain lead times allowing us to to the maximise the freshness in-store and reduce waste and costs.
Many of these facilities are situated close to our packhouse... distribution centres, enabling us to also reduce our food miles.
The vast majority of our fresh food is prepared by our production plants providing us with security of supply.
We own and operate a very modern transport fleet, ensuring freshness and cost control.
We believe we delivered have the quickest turnaround time between order and delivery compared to any other supermarket.
to... Because we prepare food in-store, we can react to customer trends throughout the day, only producing all our what the customer wants.
This reduces waste, makes us cost efficient and keeps our prices low to the stores.
customer, as well as ensuring our products are always freshly made.
Group Company Performance review Strategic review Governance financial statements financial statements Investor information www.
co. uk annualreport09 21 UK arable and Overseas % livestock farmers 100 British We source entire containers of Our buyers deal directly with the produce from overseas which is We sell only 100% British producer to either select the livestock individually packed and graded to our pork, beef and lamb.
we believe is good enough or to own standards.
This effective method purchase whole crops of produce of buying also passes on great value which is fairer to the farmer.
Manufacturing sites We also own: We have 13 manufacturing 3 Abattoirs Top 5 sites in total comprising: 3 Bakeries UK food producer 6 Fruit & vegetable packhouses 12 in the UK: and Source: The OC&C Grocer Index, Top 150 suppliers 1 Food preparation factory 1 in the Netherlands 90% of all meat and the majority of our fresh food is selected and packed through our manufacturing facilities.
Our transport fleet External suppliers distribution We have 680 tractor units and 2,000 Some of our suppliers deliver directly 12 centres trailers moving over 16 million cases to our stores.
We have 12 distribution of products to stores each week.
centres operated by ourselves and specialist providers.
Rest of store Our craft skilled staff prepare more We take pride in great 18,000 fresh food in-store than any other shopkeeping and having the right product lines in a typical supermarket.
produce available for the customer.
store, 32% of which are our We have product ranges to suit 2,000 Bakers own-brand labels.
