Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key performance indicators KPIs The Group has used the following indicators of performance to assess its development against its strategy and financial objectives during the year ended 31 July 2009.
Growth in like-for-like revenue and cash-to-cash days are KPIs which have been given prominence in the last two years because of the more dif cult markets within which the Group was operating, therefore the Group does not have the historical information to give a five-year record for these measures.
Trading margin and return on gross capital employed are both based on trading pro t, which excludes exceptional items.
Previous years have been restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Key performance indicator and fide nition Review of performance Performance table Change in like-for-like revenue % Group like-for-like revenue reduced by 13.9 per Change in like-for-like cent during the year, compared to a reduction of revenue 2.3 per cent in the previous year.
The sharpest reductions were in the Nordic region, by 17.9 per The total increase or decrease in revenue for cent, and in the United States by 16.4 per cent.
the year, excluding the effect of currency The contraction in Canada was 3.4 per cent and exchange, sales days, new acquisitions, branch in Central and Eastern Europe 5.4 per cent.
openings or branch closures in the year, and 5.1 the incremental effect of acquisitions, branch openings and branch closures in the prior year.
The Group expects changes in like-for-like 13.9 2.3 revenue in each of its markets to exceed changes in the overall level of economic activity in those markets.
2007 2008 2009 Change in organic revenue % Group organic revenue reduced by 16.4 per Change in organic revenue cent during the year with the net branch closures The increase or decrease in like-for-like revenue reducing revenue by a further 2.1 per cent in and in revenue derived from branch openings or addition to the reduction in like-for-like revenue.
closure in the year and the incremental effect of 12.8 branch openings and closures in the prior year.
11.8 In the past, the Group has sought to achieve, on average, double-digit growth in revenue both 6.8 through organic growth and through acquisitions.
Over the economic cycle the Group has seen 16.4 growth come broadly evenly from both sources.
1.2 The impact of the current severe downturn on the Groups markets is currently being assessed and it may be appropriate to revise the growth target.
It is likely that acquisitions will constitute a smaller percentage of the Groups revenue in the future.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Trading margin % Group trading margin overall fell from 5.3 per Trading margin cent to 3.1 per cent.
The sharpest falls were in the UK and Ireland, from 5.5 per cent to The ratio of trading pro t to revenue expressed 2.0 per cent, and France from 4.9 per cent to as a percentage.
Over the cycle, the Group 1.5 per cent.
Central and Eastern Europe broke seeks to achieve a growth in trading pro t higher 6.4 even again.
The US plumbing and heating than the growth in revenue through year-on-year 6.1 6.0 business segment contributed 5.4 per cent improvements in trading margin as a result of 5.3 compared to 7.1 per cent the previous year continuous improvement in operations and the and the Nordic cluster delivered 4.6 per cent bene ts of its international scale and leverage.
compared to 6.9 per cent the previous year.
3.1 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Wolseley plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our business continued Key performance indicator and fide nition Review of performance Performance table Cash-to-cash days Cash-to-cash days, measured with spot Cash ow performance exchange rates, was 28 at 31 July 2009, compared to 44 at 31 July 2008.
The reduction The Group monitors cash-to-cash days, which re ected improved working capital management.
are fide ned as the average number of days from payment for items of inventory to receipt of cash Cash conversion was 364 per cent, compared to 66 from customers.
The Group also monitors the 185 per cent in the prior year.
cash conversion ratio, which is operating cash ow divided by trading pro t. 52 44 28 2006 2007 2008 2009 Free cash flow m Free cash ow increased by 280 million from Free cash ow 571 million in 2008 to 851 million in 2009, Free cash ow represents cash ow from despite a reduction of 340 million in trading operating activities less maintenance capital pro t, as a result of a reduction of 846 million expenditure, tax, dividends and interest.
851 The Group seeks to generate suf cient free cash ow over the business cycle to fund normal bolt-on acquisitions and expansion 626 capital expenditure.
571 321 285 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Return on gross capital employed % Return on gross capital employed decreased Return on gross capital from 12.7 per cent to 6.9 per cent re ecting the employed reduced trading margins in all the Groups businesses and the increased level of capital The ratio of trading pro t to the aggregate of the employed after the rights issue.
This return was monthly average of shareholders funds, minority 19.2 below the Groups estimated pre-tax weighted 18.3 interests, net debt and cumulative goodwill and average cost of capital of 9.7 per cent.
The Group has 15.2 previously targeted to deliver an incremental return on gross capital employed at least 4 per 12.7 cent in excess of the pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
A major driver of decisions relating to acquisitions and capital expenditure has been 6.9 the incremental return on capital generated by those investments.
The Group is currently assessing whether this return on capital target continues to be appropriate.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 14 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Cost-bene t analyses of each Private label Other performance restructuring action are prepared locally Most of the Groups businesses aim indicators and submitted to the Group head of ce to increase the proportion of sales for review and challenge.
If actions The Group also uses a variety of other of private label products, as these are approved, each business reports financial and nonfinancial measures to generally command higher margins.
monthly on the costs incurred and the monitor performance against the targets Overall the percentage of the Groups bene ts realised to date and forecast and objectives set by the Board.
revenue attributable to private label to be realised in the current and products has increased from 6.0 per Human resources subsequent financial year.
cent in 2007 to 7.7 per cent in 2009, The safety of Wolseleys people is Supply chain and initiatives to increase this further regarded as paramount and lost time are tailored to the opportunities and There are diverse supply chain incident rates are monitored closely in circumstances of each business.
initiatives around the Group: their each of the major businesses.
performance is monitored by both Business Change Programme Wolseleys staff provide key competitive financial measures, such as annualised The Groups Business Change advantages, as customer relationships savings in transportation costs, and also Programme has a range of objectives, are maintained by branch personnel by nonfinancial measures, such as including increasing productivity, or members of the sales force.
inventory turns and, for the Groups enhancing margins and driving like-forStaff turnover rates are considered an network of distribution centres DCs, like sales growth.
Another objective important indicator and are reviewed the ll rate achieved, which is the is to improve the resilience and security regularly.
The overall turnover rate for proportion of orders that can be ful lled of the Groups information technology 2009 of 26 per cent 2008: 31 per cent from inventory on hand at the time of infrastructure while reducing its and the 2009 turnover rate of 16 per the order.
In advance of the cent at management level 2008: 17 per Sourcing large-scale deployment of new cent, re ect the extensive restructuring applications, the Groups Global Service carried out during the year, which has The Group has financial measures for Delivery IT organisation has begun resulted in business disposals, branch the progress of its global sourcing operating, and has taken responsibility closures and reductions in staf ng levels programmes.
These are primarily for supporting and maintaining networks both at remaining branches and in annual targets for the margin bene t and legacy business applications in a management.
Further staff reduction from new supplier rebate agreements number of regions.
The organisation measures may be required in 2009 10. and improvements to existing rebate has service level agreements with each schemes.
The Group also measures Restructuring costs and bene ts operating company it supports and the impact on cash ow, such as reports its performance against these Since the downturn spread from the US through improved payment terms.
agreements monthly to the IT Executive.
residential market in the second half of Environmental The key measures are the percentage 2008 and began affecting the remainder of time for which systems are available, of the Groups markets, management The Groups approach to environmental the number of service calls created, has implemented an aggressive measures is set out in the Corporate closed and outstanding for each service restructuring programme across the responsibility report on pages 39 to 49. desk, and the number and percentage Groups businesses to preserve cash In accordance with the reporting of identi ed vulnerabilities that have and reduce costs.
Between 31 July guidelines suggested by the UK been cleared.
2007 and 31 July 2009 the Group Governments Department for closed or disposed of 902 branches, Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, disposed of six non-core businesses, the Group has tracked performance reduced headcount by 28,000 and applying a range of environmental took measures to preserve cash, measures, including those relating such as suspending the payment to carbon dioxide emissions, waste of dividends and reducing planned management and water use which capital expenditure.
In relation to the are disclosed in the Corporate restructuring of continuing operations, responsibility report on page 45. the Group has recorded exceptional charges of 70 million in the year ended 31 July 2008 and 346 million in the year ended 31 July 2009.
Wolseley plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 North American operations North America plumbing and heating Market opportunities Performance Key brands The North American market for plumbing, heating and air conditioning % of Group products is substantial.
Management has estimated the combined Revenue 6,520m 45% addressable US and Canadian Ferguson is a distributor of plumbing Trading pro t 349m 69% markets to be worth over $200 billion supplies, valves and ttings, heating in calendar year 2008. and cooling equipment, waterworks, $m tools, safety equipment and re In the US, Wolseley is exposed to protection products.
Ferguson three components of the market 12,594 12,285 operates across 50 US States, the which manifest different cycles: new 10,806 District of Columbia, and in Puerto residential, repair, maintenance and 10,242 Rico, the Caribbean and Mexico.
improvement RMI, and commercial 8,091 and industrial.
The new residential market has contracted sharply as housing starts have declined from an annualised 924,000 in July 2008 to an Wolseley Canada is a wholesale 882 873 annualised 560,000 in July 2009, a 755 547 530 distributor of plumbing, heating and reduction of 39 per cent year-on-year: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 ventilation equipment and is located although the July 2009 gure re ects in all ten provinces of Canada.
Revenue a recovery from a low point of 498,000 Trading profit in April 2009.
The RMI market is, in general, less cyclical as consumers who are unable or unwilling to relocate at current market prices are likely to Business pro le Business strengths compensate by increasing expenditure The Groups North American plumbing on home improvements.
The estimates and heating businesses are Ferguson in Strong brand and market position and forecasts from Harvard Joint Centre the United States and Wolseley Canada.
show annualised home improvements 3 Leading distributor of plumbing expenditure reducing from $126 billion Ferguson is the largest wholesale and heating in North America in Q2 of calendar 2008 to $112 billion distributor of plumbing supplies, pipes, 3 Continuing strong performance in Q2 of calendar 2009, a reduction valves and ttings in the USA and a of 11 per cent.
The commercial and major distributor of heating, ventilation Signi cant market opportunities industrial sector has longer lead times and air conditioning systems.
Ferguson 3 US economy expected to be the than the consumer-driven sectors, as is managed through five business first to recover there can be an interval of two or more groups: Residential Plumbing, Heating years from the commitment of funding Ventilation and Air Conditioning 3 Increasing signs of competitor to completion of a project.
Levels of HVAC, Waterworks, Commercial distress activity started to decline from those of Plumbing and Industrial.
A number of 3 Wolseley Canada managed the previous year in the second quarter brands other than Ferguson have been by Ferguson of the financial year and this decline retained for servicing speci c markets.
has accelerated in the second half Ferguson has eight distribution centres, Strong business model of the year.
three pipeyards and 1,228 branches 3 Large scale distribution centre 2008: 1,382 branches.
The US government has taken model and branch network measures to support the availability Wolseley Canada is the domestic 3 Highly trained employees with of credit and stimulate demand in the market leader in the wholesale extensive local knowledge overall economy, including making funds distribution of plumbing, heating and available to subsidise first-time buyers, ventilation products with 225 branches 3 Operating cash ow of $1.4 billion to make houses more energy-ef cient 2008: 254 branches.
over the last 12 months and to modernise and repair schools, which should support demand for the Groups product range.
Scale 1,453 Number of branches 19,889 Number of employees 16 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Dir Directors r ectors report Corporate gover eport Corporate governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Other information Other information The Canadian economy has been less The current economic conditions favour As the cycle turns, funds will be made affected by the financial crisis than that the stronger and better capitalised available both for organic growth of most developed countries, primarily distributors and management consider through new branches in the markets due to the underpinning provided by that the North America business has with the best opportunities and for commodity prices and the relative gained market share over the last year.
bolt-on acquisitions, which have strength of its banking system.
historically been successful for the Strengths and strategy The downturn has, however, been business.
The Group will keep the concentrated in the residential new possibility of strategic acquisitions Fergusons business is the strongest in construction market, which provides under constant review, but will only the Groups portfolio, as a result of its about a third of Wolseley Canadas enter into negotiations if the business t market leadership, its unique distribution revenue and where housing starts is compelling and prices are attractive.
network based around the DCs, the are forecast to fall by 33 per cent to buying power it derives from scale, the Performance 140,000 in calendar year 2009 from wide range of business cycles to which 210,000 in calendar year 2008. it is exposed through its range of Local currency revenue in the US customers and markets, and its proven plumbing and heating operations was In the longer term, demographic trends ability to react quickly to the market.
down by 18.6 per cent to $9,143 million in North America suggest high rates The Canadian business is the domestic 2008: $11,226 million with organic of home ownership and residential market leader, with an extensive branch revenue down 18.7 per cent.
construction in the future, as the network and a broad product range.
Underlying trading pro t, excluding so-called echo boomers, children property pro ts, was down by 40 per of the baby boom generation, are In the short term, Ferguson will continue cent to $479 million 2008: $794 million.
now entering the peak home buying to take action to protect its margins Despite the challenging conditions and and renting ages, and as rates of and maintain discipline on costs and commodity price fide ation of $34 million immigration continue to be high and working capital, while continuing 22 million, the gross margin was only foreign-born populations increasingly to take market share from distressed 30 basis points down on the prior year, move to home ownership.
Speci c areas of re ecting the continued focus on focus will be the development and Despite some consolidation in recent changes in the business mix towards marketing of private label products, years, as some of the major retailers higher margin business generated from the remerchandising of counters have diversi ed into plumbing and showrooms, counter sales and private and build-up of showroom visitors, heating equipment, the market is highly label products.
The underlying trading expanding e-commerce and further fragmented, with an estimated 95 per margin was lower at 5.2 per cent exploiting business intelligence systems cent of distribution operations 2008: 7.1 per cent.
to manage the gross margin matrix.
Strong business model Wolseleys Industrial Products Group WIPG, Meridian and Ferguson Integrated Services FIS are working together to supply an international power generation company.
FIS, a maintenance repairs and operations integrator, now provides the procurement umbrella under which both Meridian and WIPG supply product to the end user.
The result is a signi cant three year agreement to supply pipes, valves, ttings, maintenance, repair and overhaul supplies across North America.
The contract gives Wolseley the opportunity to leverage existing infrastructure and core capabilities of individual businesses and at the same time provide substantial value to the end user that is not available elsewhere in the marketplace.
Wolseley plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 North American operations North America plumbing and heating continued is one of the largest-ever healthcare a big part as material prices were Scale advantages projects in the US.
Ferguson is escalating at the time the contract was Fergusons Baltimore branch recently supplying all of the plumbing xtures, awarded and the customer needed to won a contract to provide materials pipes, valves and ttings to the projects control costs on behalf of their client.
for the Johns Hopkins Hospital in mechanical contractors, Poole & Kent This contract win demonstrates Baltimore which has embarked on a Corporation of Baltimore.
Poole & Kent Fergusons buying strength and $1.2 billion, 10-year redevelopment Corporation selected Ferguson for the excellent logistical ability through its plan that calls for two new clinical job because of their financial strength distribution network.
The Johns Hopkins project and service capability.
Logistics played 18 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information In response to the slowing markets, In response to the slowing markets, Strengths and strategy Ferguson reduced its headcount by Wolseley Canada reduced its The Group intends to effect a phased 3,840.
These reductions equate to headcount by 387 during the year reduction in the construction loans around 18 per cent of its total employees to 2,487.
Restructuring actions taken portfolio over the next two to three and along with other cost saving during the year will give rise to estimated years.
It expects to continue to initiatives will give rise to estimated annualised savings of C$5 million.
undertake selective lending only, to annualised savings of $258 million.
Branch numbers in Canada were allow for an orderly reduction in the This brings the cumulative headcount reduced by 29 to 225 2008: 254. scope of the business.
The portfolio reduction in Ferguson to around 25 per will also be reduced through a phased cent of its employees over the two years Construction loans withdrawal from selected markets to ended 31 July 2009. position the business for a possible Business pro le Cash ow performance was strong future sale.
The Group has retained, through North with a continued improvement in Following its separation from Stock, American Loan Services NALS, the cash-to-cash days with further NALS has ceased operations in five portfolio of construction loan receivables progress in inventory, demonstrating States, and now has 90 per cent of its formerly owned and managed by Stock the bene ts of the DC network, and portfolio in North Carolina, South Building Supply Stock.
These are collections of receivables.
loans made to builders to finance the Fergusons overall branch numbers construction of properties.
At origination Performance reduced by 154 to 1,228 locations the term of the loan is a maximum 2008: 1,382.
Both new loan originations and the of 12 months, with an option at NALSs outstanding loans have been reduced discretion to extend by six month In Canada, market activity remained over the past 12 months re ecting a increments, and with a registered strong in the early part of the year before more cautious approach to lending charge over the property.
The charge falling away sharply in December 2008. following the continuing decline in the usually has priority over other charges In July 2009, housing starts had fallen US housing market.
At 31 July 2009, over the asset and is often reinforced to an annualised rate of 132,000, with construction lending receivables on by liens under State law and personal declines evident across all regions.
Wolseleys balance sheet, nanced by guarantees.
In general, the funding is Global economic uncertainty and, in an equivalent amount of construction made available as the expenditure is particular, expected reduced demand loan borrowings, was $272 million incurred, rather than in advance, for natural resources and commodities 163 million compared to $470 million which restricts the exposure, and the continue to inhibit levels of activity.
The trading completed property cannot be sold by Against this background, Wolseley loss for the year of $37 million has the builder unless the loan has been Canada continued to outperform decreased slightly from $38 million in the repaid and the charge released.
Local currency revenue prior year and re ects bad debt charges Charges for impairment of receivables decreased by 6 per cent to C$1,293 and losses on property disposals of and gains or losses on the disposal of million 2008: C$1,376 million including $29 million.
The run rate of losses foreclosed property, as well as the cost a 6 per cent organic revenue decline.
is expected to decline over the next of labour and facilities, are included in Gross margins were lower, although 12 months.
the Groups trading pro t. Income from the trend improved in the second half of Following the separation from Stock, interest and fees is included in the the financial year, and trading pro t was NALS recorded an exceptional charge Groups finance revenue, and interest 25.6 per cent lower at C$59 million of $48 million to re ect an impairment of expense in the Groups finance cost.
On 1 April 2009, receivables that arose as a result of the responsibility for the management of the separation and the withdrawal from Industrial Products Group IPG was certain markets at that time rather than transferred to Ferguson.
Excluding the from any further deterioration in its IPG business, the revenue decline in the underlying markets.
Wolseley plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 European operations UK and Ireland Business pro le Performance Key brands Wolseley UK trades through a number of brands, each of which targets a % of Group particular sector and many of which have leading positions in their sectors: Revenue 2,699m 19% Plumb Center is a market leading Number One Trading pro t 55m 11% specialist supplier of domestic lightside Plumb Center products including central heating m equipment, plumbing, drainage, Parts Center bathrooms and showers.
Drain Center above ground 3,171 3,203 2,690 Climate Center in refrigeration 2,699 2,351 William Wilson Scottish independents Build Center is a national builders merchant supplying building Number Two materials and services to the trade.
The extensive product range includes Pipe Center 211 201 183 176 55 bricks and blocks, aggregates and Encon Insulation 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 cement, insulation and plasterboard, timber, tools, landscaping and Revenue drainage, as well as ironmongery Number Three Trading profit and personal protective equipment.
Brandon Hire Build Center also provides additional products through specialist branches, including timber, Number Four Business strengths landscaping materials, general Build Center ironmongery and hardwood, Dryad Strong brand and market position architectural ironmongery and glass.
3 Wolseley Centres are strong, In Ireland, Heat Merchants and Tubs well-known brands targeted to and Tiles are both number one in their speci c customer groups sectors, while Brooks is the leading timber merchant and the second largest 3 Performing at or above the market Pipe Center is a supplier to mechanical builders merchant.
in plumbing and heating services and plant engineers, offering expertise in tube valves and ttings in Wolseley UK operates a national Established business model steel, plastic, copper, stainless steel as distribution centre, servicing Plumb, 3 Extensive branch network well as commercial and industrial Parts and Climate Centers from heating and air conditioning equipment.
Wolseley operates 3 Advanced supply chain providing three regional distribution centres, in next day delivery Melmerby, Worcester and Marston 3 Operating cash ow of 390 million Gate, and DHL operates a distribution over the last 12 months centre in Crick.
The business has a fleet Bathstore is a leading bathroom of 2,200 commercial vehicles and trades specialist.
The retailers product range from 1,544 branches in the UK and 99 includes baths, basins, showers in Ireland.
and shower cubicles, whirlpools, bathroom furniture, toilets and taps.
Encon and Nevill Long are specialist distributors of insulation, drywall, ceilings, partitioning, re protection and related products to all sectors of the construction industry.
Scale 1,643 Number of branches 11,673 Number of employees 20 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The product range is diverse more As a result, the trading margin fell from Market opportunities than 400,000 product lines, including a 5.5 per cent to 2.0 per cent.
Cash ow The total construction market in signi cant percentage of own brand performance was strong, with another the UK and Ireland was estimated private label products supported by signi cant reduction in cash-to-cash by Euroconstruct to be worth strong supplier relationships.
The supply days achieved in the period.
about 215 billion in calendar year chain, based on the distribution centres Signi cant action has been taken 2008.
Both markets have contracted and fleet of delivery trucks, provides throughout the year to reduce the cost in calendar year 2009, re ecting the same day or next day delivery base in the UK and Ireland, resulting overall contraction of credit and throughout the UK.
in annualised savings of 160 million.
reduction in consumer demand, and The business will continue to focus on In addition to a headcount reduction more speci cally the collapse in property the fundamentals of customer service in the year of 3,083 and net branch prices, with the Irish market suffering and on building on its stronger market closures of 284 branches, action to much more severely than that of the positions.
The complexity of its portfolio rationalise the supply chain was also UK.
Some support for demand will be of brands and the branch network taken through the closure of the Didcot, provided by government projects to has been rationalised in light of market Chorley, Hen eld and Ripon distribution invest in affordable homes and in large opportunities.
In the ef ciencies to be extracted from the medium term customers will continue to As at 31 July 2009 the total number of DC network and, as the market renovate their homes, and in the longer branches for Wolseley UK and Ireland recovers, there will be opportunities term there is likely to be fundamental was 1,643 31 July 2008: 1,927. to invest in both organic growth and demand for additional housing as family industry consolidation.
units fragment and single-person occupancy grows.
Performance Strengths and strategy Wolseley UK recorded a 15.8 per cent decrease in revenue to 2,699 million Wolseley companies, which have been during the year 2008: 3,203 million.
distributing building materials in the UK The overall gross margin was lower due and Ireland for more than 30 years, to competitive pressure partially offset have an established business model, a by price management and sourcing number of strong brands with specialist bene ts.
Trading pro t declined by sales teams and leading positions in 69 per cent compared to the prior their markets and an experienced year, from 176 million to 55 million, management team.
due to lower organic trading volumes and a loss of 30 million in Ireland.
Scale advantages Wolseley UK uses its distribution network to create value for customers by improving the service provided to them through quicker, more reliable delivery of products.
For example, the company supplies the spare parts and building materials required for response, repair and maintenance work for Tescos 2,000-plus UK retailing stores.
The supplies are predominantly distributed via a dedicated Parts Center branch set up inside Wolseleys National Distribution Centre at Leamington Spa and supported through the companys nationwide branch network.
Using Wolseley UKs distribution network in this way is cost-effective for the company, ef cient for the customer and demonstrates the companys ability to deliver bespoke services tailored for its biggest customers.
Wolseley plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 European operations Nordic Business pro le Performance Key brands DT Group operates in Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway.
Since 1 August % of Group 2008 the Woodcote business, which operates in the Czech Republic, Poland, Revenue 2,113m 14% Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, has Silvan is a Danish chain of DIY stores, Trading pro t 96m 19% reported through DT Group, as the represented broadly in Denmark, with product lines and customer pro les a wide and well assorted product are similar.
DKKm range targeting primarily DIY consumers.
The cluster trades through seven 22,986 principal brands: 18,451 Stark is the number one building 18,256 materials distributor in Denmark, Stark is a nationwide Danish chain with 2009 revenue of DKK7.4 billion of builders merchants with sale of through 93 branches.
timber, building materials and tools, Starkki is the second largest building providing professional advice on 1,596 materials distributor in Finland, with 1,125 832 building and logistics solutions to 2009 revenue of DKK3.5 billion 2007 2008 2009 professional and DIY builders.
10 months Revenue Beijer is the number one distributor Trading profit of buildling materials in Sweden, with 2009 revenue of DKK3.3 billion Starkki is a Finnish chain of builders through 64 stores.
merchants with a wide and well Business strengths assorted product range targeting Silvan is a DIY and retail chain in professional builders, consumers, Denmark, with 2009 revenue of Strong brand and market position home builders, industry and DKK1.6 billion from 40 stores.
3 A leading retailer and distributor Neumann Bygg is a Norwegian of building materials in the Nordic builders merchant, with 2009 revenue markets of DKK1 billion through 14 stores.
3 Stark and Beijer are market leaders in Woodcote is an Eastern European Beijer Byggmaterial is a Swedish Denmark and Sweden respectively builders merchant, with 2009 revenue chain of builders merchants, which equivalent to DKK0.7 billion revenue, 3 Starkki is No.
2 in Finland operate through combi-stores with a with 42 branches.
wide and well assorted product Attractive market dynamics range targeting both professional Cheapy is a Swedish DIY and 3 Fragmented building materials customers and consumers.
retail chain of 20 stores, with 2009 market revenue of DKK0.3 billion.
Established business model 3 Industry leading working capital Neumann Bygg is a Norwegian chain management of builders merchants trading with 3 Strong and experienced consumers, professional customers management team as well as industry and retailers.
3 Well placed branch network 3 Signi cant operational leverage on the upside Woodcote is a chain of builders 3 Operating cash ow of DKK1.7 merchants and specialist stores in billion over the last 12 months Central Europe trading from outlets across Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania, providing heavyside building Scale materials and internal systems to professional contractors throughout the region.
296 Number of branches 6,749 Number of employees 22 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Fundamentally attractive business sector DT Group is a leading retailer and distributor of building materials in the Nordic markets.
Its Stark and Beijer brands are market leaders in Denmark and Sweden respectively, with Silvan the number one DIY retailer in Denmark and Starkki, the second largest builders merchant in Finland.
DT Group has a well-placed branch network and a strong and experienced management team who have been responsible for driving cost and capital ef ciency and establishing strong working capital management.
During the downturn, DT has continued to perform at least in line with the markets in which it operates.
These are highly fragmented and the medium and long-term outlook for the construction market in this region is expected to be positive.
There are future opportunities to further consolidate DTs leading market positions and bene t from its operational leverage once the market recovers.
Trading pro t of DKK832 million Market opportunities Strengths and strategy 96 million was 47.1 per cent lower The total construction market for The cluster has an established business than the prior year of DKK1,596 million the Nordic region was estimated model, strong brands and well-located 159 million.
Overall the gross margin by Euroconstruct at 107 million branches in a large market which, was at and the trading margin was in calendar year 2008.
While because of its fragmentation, has 4.6 per cent 2008: 6.9 per cent as Euroconstruct has forecast an overall attractive dynamics.
In the current management demonstrated its ability contraction of 8 per cent for calendar weak markets the focus has been to reduce costs as business growth year 2009, with growth in civils and on preserving cash and closing slowed.
During the year there has infrastructure partly compensating for a loss-making stores or divisions, while been some bene t from government 30 per cent reduction in new residential capturing market share from smaller intervention to stimulate activity, building, Wolseleys experience has operators.
There are opportunities particularly in Sweden, but with a been that the market decline has been to build further on strong customer negligible impact on the Nordic market.
In Denmark, relationships, for example by providing In response to market conditions, the government policies are aimed at services as well as products to private Nordic region reduced its headcount supporting consumer con dence: customers with larger projects and by 1,205 during financial year 2009. tax rates have reduced as well as providing premium delivery services Restructuring actions taken will give interest rates and mandatory savings to professional customers and also rise to estimated annualised savings of schemes have been relaxed.
to increase the share of own-brand DKK376 million.
During the year action The Swedish government has also products.
As markets recover there will was taken to exit the DT Groups DIY provided support to consumers, be opportunities to expand the branch business in Sweden trading under the increasing borrowing by the equivalent network and to make acquisitions.
Silvan brand, which was loss making.
The recession Performance This resulted in the closure of eight in Finland is expected to last longer branches with the conversion of than in the other Nordic territories.
Given the challenging market backdrop three branches to Beijer Builders In the longer term, population growth, the Nordic region, which includes the stores.
particularly in Denmark and Sweden, Eastern European heavyside businesses which have recently had high levels of Woodcote, achieved a resilient Cash ow performance was strong, of immigration, is expected to support performance in 2009, with all Nordic with a further reduction in cash-to-cash the market.
countries at least tracking in line with days achieved in the year ended the market.
For the year ended 31 July 31 July 2009.
2009 revenue for the Nordic cluster fell The Nordic cluster had 296 branches as from DKK22,986 million 2,290 million at 31 July 2009 including 42 Woodcote to DKK18,256 2,113 million re ecting branches 2008: 324. an organic revenue decline of 18.4 per Wolseley plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 European operations France The main brand, Brossette, is the Performance Key brands number two integrated distributor of plumbing, heating, pipes valves and % of ttings in France.
The division also Group trades as Brossette TC specialist in drains and industrial pipes, CDL Revenue 2,144m 15% electricals, Ple Confortique air Rseau Pro is a distributor of wood Trading pro t 32m 6% conditioning, Brossette TP specialist and building materials.
in public works and Ditac parts.
m The timber import and solutions division recorded revenue of 0.3 billion in 2009 2,850 2,774 2008: 0.3 billion.
It has 24 branches Brossette is a major distributor of 2,515 2,399 2,486 and it trades through seven brands: plumbing supplies and pipes, valves Silverwood interior and exterior and ttings in France.
panelling, Sinbpla specialist carpentry and joinery, Savare specialist sawing and planing, Nailweb joists and girders, Charpentes Franaises Silverwood is a specialist in timber, 150 143 132 139 industrial, Bois des Trois Ports exotic 37 ooring, indoor and outdoor covering woods and Cerland garden furniture.
Revenue Market opportunities Trading profit The French construction market is the second largest in Europe, with volumes estimated by Euroconstruct Business pro le at 214 billion in calendar year 2008, Business strengths though forecast to contract by 6 per The Groups French business is cent in calendar year 2009. organised into three divisions.
Strong brand and market position Although there is a government recovery The building materials division, based 3 Brossette is the No.
2 distributor of programme, only 2 billion of additional in Paris and Rennes, recorded revenue plumbing and heating in France expenditure has been pledged to of 1.4 billion in 2009 2008: 1.6 billion.
3 Rseau Pro is a leading distributor the construction sector, mostly in It has one national and five regional of heavyside building materials in initiatives to construct social housing distribution centres, and 349 branches.
France an additional 25,000 units per year and The main brand, Rseau Pro, is the renovate un t housing.
The RMI market, number two integrated distributor of Attractive market dynamics which provided 62 per cent of Wolseley heavyside building materials in France.
3 France is the second largest Frances revenue in 2009, will continue The division also trades through the construction market in Europe to be key, and is strongly linked to brands Panofrance timber, panels and consumer con dence.
The renewable interior design, Cardor tiles and 3 Market downturn likely to be less energy segment is growing rapidly and Coverpro roo ng.
severe than in UK represents a signi cant opportunity.
The plumbing, heating and pipes Established business model In the longer term, population growth division, based in Lyon, recorded 3 Recent investment in distribution and the ageing of the housing stock are revenue of 0.8 billion in 2009 2008: model expected to underpin demand.
It has one national and seven regional distribution centres, 3 Operating cash ow of 297 million and 403 branches.
over the last 12 months Scale 776 Number of branches 9,053 Number of employees 24 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information No further investment for growth will Management attention continues Strengths and strategy be made in France as a whole until the to focus on lowering the cost base Wolseley France has an established restructuring currently planned has been and maintaining gross margins with business model and leading brands in completed and results are satisfactory.
additional social plans launched in June one of the largest European markets Non-core operations will be disposed of and July.
During the year restructuring and has invested in distribution centres when appropriate.
actions gave rise to 28 million of in recent years.
exceptional costs, headcount was Performance reduced by 1,152 and 56 branches The plumbing and heating business were closed.
The restructuring actions is being repositioned away from its Local currency revenue was down are expected to give rise to annualised traditional reliance on oilred boilers 12.8 per cent to 2,486 million 2008: savings of 39 million 34 million.
and towards the growing demand 2,850 million with organic revenue Particular focus has been on the for renewable energy solutions.
Despite this, the Brossette lightside businesses which The number of small sales points will gross margin was broadly at although made a trading loss of 4 million be reduced as there is better coverage trading pro t was 73 per cent lower at in the year ended 31 July 2009. from distribution centres and larger 37 million 2008: 139 million, as The repositioning of Brossette continues locations will be reinforced in service management continued to phase cost with the aim of providing a broad range levels and by the renovation of reduction actions in accordance with of solutions for professionals in the showrooms.
Spare parts and electricals French social laws.
The 2007 8 trading heating segment, to expand the will be integrated into the core business pro t bene ted from 11 million more showroom capability and to improve and higher-margin own brand sales will non-exceptional property and other customer service and the product be developed.
asset disposal pro ts than 2008 9. offering.
Trading margin for the year ended The building materials business will be 31 July 2009 was 1.5 per cent In addition, action has been initiated developed through Rseau Pro as a 2008: 4.9 per cent.
Spot cash-to-cash to exit the loss making branches relating nationwide supplier of a wide range days were lower than the prior year to the public works business, subject to of products, while specialist brands with improvements in inventory days employee consultation.
are used to develop new markets.
and receivable days, despite changes The branch network is being France reduced the number of branches to legislation regarding payment rationalised.
There are opportunities to 776 in the year ended 31 July 2009 of suppliers.
from the expected growth of demand 2008: 848. for environmentally sound and more energy-ef cient construction materials and methods, and to develop ownbrand product lines.
Local brands knowledge Being part of Wolseley plc allows the different Wolseley businesses to leverage the knowledge and capabilities of the Group and create natural synergies.
Examples include taking advantage from experiences in similar businesses such as Rseau Pro Wolseley Frances main heavyside brand which has recently been sharing best practices with DT Group in the Nordic region and has introduced its Craftsmen corner concept into Rseau Pro Express the self-service area.
This is a dedicated area in the front of a branch with specialist advice as well as high end tools and accessories for highly skilled tradesmen.
To date, the concept has been extremely well received by customers.
Wolseley plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 European operations Central and Eastern Europe Business pro le Performance Key brands The principal operations in Central and Eastern Europe, and their revenue in % of Group 2009, are in Austria 268 million, Switzerland 212 million, the Revenue 965m 7% Netherlands 211 million and Italy Tobler is a Swiss distributor of Trading pro t 129 million.
There are also smaller heating and plumbing products.
operations in Luxembourg and Denmark.
m There are 66 branches and 858 965 employees in Austria.
The principal 908 846 AG is an Austrian distributor of brand is AG, the number one 735 plumbing and heating supplies and distributor of plumbing and heating 642 of pipes, valves and ttings.
products and there are also specialist divisions Kontinentale industrial pipe, FAP bathroom ttings, Parts Center and Miet Center tool hire.
Wasco is a Dutch distributor of 30 31 32 There are 41 branches and 697 heating and plumbing products 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 employees in Switzerland.
brand is Tobler, the number one Revenue distributor of plumbing, heating and air Trading profit conditioning products in the country.
In the Netherlands, the main brand is Manzardo is an Italian distributor of Wasco-Kopex, which is the number two plumbing, heating, sanitary and air Business strengths distributor of heating, plumbing and conditioning products to installers.
There are also Future focus on countries where specialist divisions supplying spare parts Wolseley has: for boilers and installation tools, and providing energy-saving technologies.
3 Built suf cient scale There are 29 branches and 357 3 Established leading market employees.
CFM is a distributor of sanitary, positions heating and appliances and pipes Manzardo in Italy has 46 branches and 3 Ability to deliver an appropriate based in Luxembourg.
It is the number three financial return distributor of plumbing and sanitary products in Italy, although the market is so fragmented that management estimates that it has only a 2 per cent Electro-Oil is a Danish distributor of market share.
gas and oil heating systems and their associated parts.
The businesses in Luxembourg CFM and Denmark Electro-Oil are the market leaders in their respective specialist segments.
The Group disposed of its plumbing and heating business in Hungary and one of its Belgian businesses during the year, for a loss of 16 million.
On 27 July 2009 it announced that, after its strategic review of the Central European cluster, it had decided to dispose of its remaining business in Belgium, and the plumbing and heating businesses in the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
These businesses have been classi ed Scale as held for sale at 31 July 2009, resulting in a further loss of 28 million.
266 Number of branches 2,936 Number of employees 26 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information metal distributor which were loss Market opportunities Strengths and strategy making.
The cluster broke even at The total size of the construction The Group has recently completed a trading pro t level, as it did in the market in Austria, Italy, Switzerland strategic review of the cluster, which previous year.
As a direct result of the and the Netherlands was estimated focused on identifying those countries focus on working capital, cash-to-cash by Euroconstruct at 340 billion in where it can utilise its scale and days improved signi cantly compared calendar year 2008, with an overall established leading market position to to the prior year.
6 per cent contraction forecast for deliver an appropriate financial return.
The Swiss real estate sector The Group has decided to retain a conditions, action taken in the year has held up well for most of the year, lightside presence in Switzerland, has resulted in a headcount reduction as the high level of activity in residential Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Holland of 850 and annualised savings of housing construction has resulted in and Italy.
Following the review, action 20 million.
Following the strategic unusually low vacancy rates but not an has been initiated to strengthen the review announced in July 2009, action excess of supply.
The other markets leadership in Austria and Italy and these has recently been taken to strengthen have all contracted by comparison businesses will be further restructured.
the leadership teams in Italy and to 2008, prompting government Until this restructuring is completed, no Austria and restructuring measures are responses.
The Austrian government further capital will be allocated for the underway focusing on gross margin has announced an economic stimulus expansion of these businesses, other management, simplifying the product package amounting to 2.5 per cent than maintenance capital expenditure.
range and driving improvements in of GDP and the levels of growth in customer service.
Performance neighbouring Eastern European countries will provide continuing On a pro forma basis, for the year The businesses in Central and Eastern support.
The Italian government is ended 31 July 2009, the continuing Europe achieved revenue growth, in liberalising regulations over new constituent businesses in Central and sterling, of 6.3 per cent to 965 million residential building and it is expected Eastern Europe Austria, Italy, 2008: 908 million, re ecting the that demographics will continue to Luxembourg, the Netherlands and bene ts of exchange rates, partly offset support demand.
Switzerland had revenue of 868 million by an organic revenue decline of 8.9 per 2008: 801 million and a trading pro t cent.
The gross margin was at for the of 5 million 2008: 4 million.
year as a whole, although it improved during the second half following the At 31 July 2009 the cluster had 226 disposals of MART in Hungary and branches 2008: 290.
Wasco-Anbuma in Belgium and the closure of KSM an Austrian steel and Scale advantages Wasco is a Dutch distributor of heating and plumbing products and spares.
It has been able to add value to customers by leveraging its extensive distribution network.
For example, the business has been able to create a unique solution for Feenstra, a Dutch heating company, which has a speci c Feenstra logistics area in key distribution locations where Wasco picks and packs all small installation material in specially developed Feenstra Buckets for distribution to the customer.
IT teams from both companies worked together to develop an electronic ordering process directly into Wascos Enterprise Resource Planning system.
Wasco now receives orders two to three days before delivery so both parties have a better and more ef cient planning process.
This has improved Wascos logistics performance and delivery times for the customer.
Wolseley plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
