Our business The Wolseley Group is the worlds largest specialist trade distributor of heating and plumbing products to professional contractors and a leading supplier of building materials to the professional market.
The Group is an international business, operating 4,394 branches in 27 countries and employing approximately 51,000 people.
Stephen P Webster Chief Financial Officer 10 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Activities Wolseleys products Wolseley plc is the parent company of the Group and its business falls into The Group supplies materials used in the construction industry.
The range of two geographic divisions Europe products used in construction is broad and the Group continually seeks and North America.
Throughout the year opportunities to widen that choice for its customers.
The main product ended 31 July 2009, Europe has been categories supplied to customers are set out in the following list: managed through four business segments: the UK and Ireland, France, the Nordic region and Central and Eastern Europe.
North America has Plumbing, heating and Civils waterworks, industrial and been managed as a single business.
air conditioning commercial The business model is essentially 3 Baths, showers and accessories 3 Drainage pipes, associated supplies simple.
Products are sourced directly and covers from suppliers or through agents and 3 Sanitaryware delivered to distribution centres and 3 Underground pressure pipes 3 Brassware branches.
Sales to customers can be 3 Small bore pressure pipes and made over the counter at our branches, 3 Bathroom furniture ttings through orders dealt with by branches, 3 Boilers and burners through call centres or over the internet, 3 Carbon and stainless steel pipes, or through supply contracts which are 3 Radiators and valves valves and ttings managed centrally.
Products are either 3 Hot water cylinders and ues 3 Other pipes, valves and ttings delivered direct to our customers or collected from our branches.
3 Control equipment Electrical 3 Ventilation and air conditioning Suppliers equipment 3 Cables and cabling accessories The Group has over 100,000 trade 3 Heat pumps and solar equipment 3 Controls and switchgear suppliers in total and its larger key suppliers are manufacturers with 3 Plastic pipes and ttings 3 Wiring accessories market-leading brands, usually 3 Copper tubing and ttings 3 Lighting international in operations but focused on the needs of local markets, and 3 Data networking supplies delivering quality products, which Building materials 3 Cable management we strive to ensure are ethically and 3 Insulation environmentally sound.
The Group continues to work with low-cost, 3 Plaster and plasterboard Services high-quality manufacturers to supply 3 Roo ng materials 3 Management of customer inventory our private label own brand product ranges.
3 Bricks, blocks and aggregates 3 Hire of equipment and tools 3 Tiles and ooring 3 Installation of cabinets and replaces 3 Timber products 3 Pipe fabrication and valve actuation 3 Doors and frames 3 Bathroom layout and design 3 Glass 3 Secured lending in the US to house builders 3 Beams, trusses and frames 3 Maintenance contracts 3 Hardware and tools 3 Cement Wolseley plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our business continued Following the global financial crisis Customers Competitive environment which commenced in September 2008, The Group has a wide range of The Group aims to be a leading commercial credit as well as consumer customers operating in different industry distributor in each of the markets credit was restricted.
Most countries in sectors that range from the individual in which it operates, the majority which the Group has a presence fell plumber or builder through to national of which are fragmented.
into recession and rising unemployment contractor chains and house builders eroded consumer con dence.
The Group competes on the basis of and include large industrial and The governments of most advanced availability of materials and supplies, commercial organisations, including economies have responded to the breadth of product range, pricing of prominent Fortune 500 companies.
liquidity shortage and economic products, customer service, provision Wolseleys primary customer focus recession with a variety of programmes of credit, technical product and local is on professional contractors.
These to support commercial lending, reduce market knowledge with respect to contractors work with households, interest rates and stimulate demand, application and usage, and also offers governments, property developers in some cases with investments in advisory and other service capabilities.
and industrial companies in the infrastructure and low-cost or social construction of new homes, of ces The Groups competition varies by housing that increase demand for the and industrial buildings or in the repair product line, type of customer and Groups products.
Some statistics and maintenance of existing premises.
geographic market: competing with indicate that GDP may now have many local, regional, and, in some stopped shrinking in a number of those markets and product categories, other Customer mix % countries that have experienced a national distributors including specialist macro-economic recession, but there A Building contractors 27% subsidiaries of large home centre chains are few indications that the construction B Plumbing and heating engineers 23% and product manufacturers.
To a much markets are yet returning to growth.
C Industrial 13% more limited extent, it also competes D End users 12% In the longer term, the changing with the large home centre chains, such E Mechanical contractors 9% demographics of the European and as The Home Depot and Lowes in the F Utilities 8% North American markets, with a G Heating, ventilation and air conditioning 6% US and B&Q in the UK, for business generally ageing population and H Electrical contractors 2% from professional contractors as well as increasing immigration, should support with product manufacturers.
H demand for new housing at relatively G high levels.
As the housing stock ages, Performance monitoring F A it will increase demand in the repair The Group plans, monitors and reviews E and remodelling sector.
Activity in the activities of its businesses principally the commercial and industrial sector through the financial reporting process.
D varies according to the level of business A strategic plan is produced annually by B investment, government spending, C all businesses which sets out business commercial property yields and finance plans and resource requirements for available to fund large projects.
On this basis a While the Group does not operate in detailed budget is prepared for the a regulated industry, the performance following financial year, which is central Market drivers of the Group can be affected by to the target setting process.
The form During the 2007 8 financial year, the government legislation.
The key and components of the budget are, in North American markets experienced a regulatory in uences centre on general, cascaded down to branch level reduction in demand, due to restrictions environmental legislation and within the businesses.
Each month, the on credit availability, falling house prices stipulations imposed when building businesses submit their results, which and low consumer con dence, in or remodelling buildings.
Such changes also include a forecast for the remainder combination with a relatively high supply in legislation present an opportunity of the financial year.
Performance of newly built or repossessed housing for growth, in response to increasing against both budget and prior month stock.
During 2008 9, these markets demand as customers or end-users forecast is reviewed with the businesses have continued to decline and European respond by changing their buying by continental and Group management.
markets also started to contract rapidly.
For example, the UK business With the bene t of such information, has a Sustainable Building Center to corrective actions or additional resource demonstrate energy ef cient products deployments are discussed.
increasingly required by regulation and in response to increased environmental awareness of customers.
12 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
