Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Other statutory information Auditors and audit information Employee Bene t Trusts  LLP are willing to continue as The Wolseley plc 2004 Overseas Employee Bene t Trust, auditors of the Company and Resolution 10 in the Notice of the Wolseley plc 2004 Employee Bene t Trust and the Meeting concerning their reappointment, and Resolution 11 Wolseley plc 2004 Directors Bene t Trust were established on concerning the determination of their remuneration, are to be 5 October 2004 in connection with the Wolseley Share Option proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Plan 2003 and the Wolseley plc 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme, details of which are set out in the Remuneration The Directors in of ce at the date of this report con rm report on pages 69 to 71.
The trustees of each of the trusts that, so far as they are each aware, in respect of the have waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares consolidated financial statements for the financial year held by them.
As part of the corporate transaction in April ended 31 July 2009, there is no relevant audit information of 2009, as detailed on pages 5 and 146, the Wolseley plc which  LLP are unaware and each Employee Bene t Trust, which held over six million ordinary Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken shares of 25 pence each, accepted in full the rights available.
as a Director to be aware, in respect of the consolidated Consequently, at the date of this report, the Trust now holds financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 1,975,046 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
2009, of any relevant audit information and to establish that  LLP are aware of that information.
Authority to issue shares Share capital and voting rights At the Annual General Meeting held in 2008, authority was given to the Directors to allot new 25 pence ordinary Following the completion of the corporate transaction in shares up to a nominal value of 34,503,353, equivalent April 2009, as detailed on pages 5 and 146, there were to the authorised but unissued ordinary share capital at 283,839,366 fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in 22 September 2008.
At the General Meeting held in April issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange as at 31 July 2009 to approve the corporate transaction, further authority 2009.
In addition, there were 886,988,540 deferred 24 pence was given to the Directors to allot new 10 pence ordinary shares outstanding at the year-end: such shares have no shares up to a nominal value of 20,604,321, in connection voting or dividend rights and are not able to be traded.
with one or more issues of relevant securities under the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys rights issue and, in addition, 8,700,000, equivalent to 87 ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys million 10 pence ordinary shares.
The Directors will propose Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, Resolution 13 in the Notice of Meeting to seek authority copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to converting the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
securities into shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 18,922,625, representing approximately two-thirds of the The Company also has a Level I American Depositary Receipt Companys issued share capital as at 28 September 2009, ADR programme in the USA for which the Bank of New of which 94,613,125 shares representing approximately York Mellon acts as Depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital may US over-the-counter market, where each ADR now represents only be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
one-tenth of a Wolseley plc ordinary share.
Further details are If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the given on page 146. authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010.
Restrictions on transfer of shares The limited power granted to the Directors at the Annual There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the General Meeting in 2008 to allot equity shares for cash other Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in than pro rata to existing shareholders will expire at the 2009 the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company Annual General Meeting.
Subject to the terms of the authority carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
noted above, the Directors recommend Resolution 14 in the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Notice of Meeting that they be empowered to allot equity holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the securities, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in transfer of securities or on voting rights.
This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity Articles of Association may be amended by a special securities for cash, in connection with an open offer to existing resolution of the Companys shareholders.
shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,419,196, being 5 per cent CREST of the ordinary share capital issued at the date of this report.
The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement The Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary system for stocks and shares.
shares, other than pursuant to the Companys employee Share options share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
The Directors recommend that you vote in favour of During the financial year ended 31 July 2009, options were Resolutions 13 and 14 to maintain the Companys exibility exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes in relation to future share issues, including any issues resulting in the allotment of 5,649 ordinary 25 pence shares to finance business opportunities should appropriate prior to the capital reorganisation and 3,034 ordinary circumstances arise.
A further five ordinary 10 pence shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 33 to the financial statements.
Wolseley plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Other statutory information continued Authority to purchase shares Donations In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the The Groups charitable donations in 2009 totalled 1,555,000 Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special 2008: 1,591,000. resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, Resolution 15 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the shareholders have passed a resolution, on a precautionary Directors limited authority, last granted in 2008, to repurchase basis, to approve donations to political organisations and the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority to incur political expenditure as such terms are fide ned will be limited to a maximum of 28,300,000 ordinary shares in sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The being approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued Board has repeatedly con rmed that it operates a policy of share capital at the date of this report and sets the minimum not giving any cash contribution to any political party in the and maximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no intention will use this authority to purchase shares only after careful of changing that policy.
The Directors propose to seek, once consideration, taking into account market conditions, other more, authority for the Group to make political donations and investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and or incur political expenditure in respect of each of the heads the overall financial position of the Company.
The authority identi ed in Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting in amounts will enable the Directors to continue to be able to respond not exceeding 125,000 in a total aggregate, which they promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per the terms of the Companies Act 2006 and which would not share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares authority sought by Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting will Regulations 2003 allow shares purchased by the Company last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
to be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for Creditor payment policy cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The Company holds no shares in treasury but the Directors All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms currently intend that any shares which are purchased will and conditions of trading with their suppliers.
It is the Groups be held in treasury.
The authorities to be sought by each of policy that payments to suppliers are made within agreed Resolutions 14 and 15 are intended to apply equally to shares terms and are, where applicable, consistent with the UK to be held by the Company as treasury shares and to the Government backed Better Payment Practice Code.
Copies sale of treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for of this Code can be obtained from the Company Secretary these general authorities to be available to provide exibility in at the Companys registered of ce.
At 31 July 2009, the the management of the Companys capital resources.
Company had no trade creditors 2008: nil.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 31 July 2009 was Change of control equivalent to 65 days 2008: 58 days of trade purchases.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or Of cer that would provide compensation for loss of of ce or employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control following a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up of the Company not being an internal organisation, subject at that time to rules concerning the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
60 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information The Wolseley Group fide ned Contribution Plan is a Employee communication and involvement trust-based fide ned contribution pension scheme with The Group places particular importance on involving its three Company nominated trustees, one of whom is an employees: keeping them regularly informed through informal independent trustee and two who are UK-based employees bulletins, such as its management magazine Directions and of the Group.
In addition, there are three member nominated other in-house publications, meetings and the Companys trustees, which are in the process of being selected.
intranet, on matters affecting them as employees and The chairman of the trustees is Wayne Phelan of PS on the issues affecting their performance.
Works Council EWC has been operating since 1996 to The principal UK fide ned bene t scheme, which is now provide a forum for informing and consulting Europe-based closed to new entrants, has one corporate and two individual employees on such matters as signi cant developments in the trustees.
The chairman of the trustees is David Tucker and, Groups operations, managements plans and expectations, save for an independent trustee, all of the other trustees organisational changes within the Group and also for and trustee directors are UK-based employees or former employee representatives to consult Group management employees of the Group.
The other main UK fide ned bene t about concerns over any aspect of the Groups operations.
scheme provides bene ts for employees of the William Wilson At the date of this report, there were 27 EWC representatives Group, which has, with effect from July 2008, three member of which 21 were employee representatives and six were nominated trustees and three Company-nominated trustees.
Employee representatives are The chairman of the trustees is Ian Percy CBE and all of the appointed from each European country in which Wolseley other trustees are UK-based employees of the William Wilson operates, with more than one employee representative Group or of the Company.
Permanent employees outside the appointed from the UK, France and Denmark.
All employees UK are offered membership of their employing companies are offered a range of bene ts depending on their local pension arrangements.
environment and are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company, where possible, through participation in the Employment policies Companys share schemes.
The Group remains committed to equality of opportunity UK pension schemes in all of its employment practices.
It is Group policy that the selection of employees for training, development and During the year the Company consulted employees on promotion should be determined solely on their skills, changes to its pension arrangements.
The following attributes and other requirements which are relevant to the changes have been made to the Wolseley Group pension job and which are in accordance with the laws of the country arrangements for future pension built up from 1 June 2009: concerned.
Priority is given to the training of employees with effect from 31 May 2009, the fide ned bene t schemes and the development of their skills is of prime importance.
of the Wolseley Group Retirement Bene ts Plan and the Employment of disabled people is considered on merit with William Wilson Group Pension Scheme were closed to new regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the members: function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry out the function required will be made if it is reasonable Final Pensionable Salary for the Wolseley Group Retirement to do so.
An employee becoming disabled would, where Bene ts Plan and the William Wilson Group Pension Scheme for service from 1 June 2009 will be based on the appropriate, be offered retraining.
The Group continues average of the last five years pensionable salary prior to to operate on a largely decentralised basis: this provides retirement.
Pension entitlement built up to 31 May 2009 encouragement for the development of entrepreneurial air, will remain based on pensionable salary in the final year of balanced by a rigorous control framework exercised by a employment.
The same changes to final pensionable salary small head of ce team.
Local management is responsible will be made to the Brooks Belfast Retirement Bene ts for maintaining high standards of health and safety and for Scheme, however, the effective date will be 1 July 2009. ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in The bene ts accrued prior to the effective date are decision-making.
not affected: On behalf of the Board the pension payable to a members spouse for the Wolseley Group Retirement Bene ts Plan will be 50 per cent of the members pension.
Pension accrued to 31 May 2009 is not affected by this change: and the Wolseley Group fide ned Contribution Plan has been created for Wolseley employees based in the UK.
All employees recruited from 1 June 2009 will be offered Richard Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel participation in this plan.
In addition, employees who were 28 September 2009 in existing fide ned contribution arrangements within the Wolseley Group, transferred to the Wolseley Group fide ned Contribution Plan from this date.
Wolseley plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
