How were doing Branding & Identity Fitch Our ability to translate brands into experiences enabled us to win fresh assignments for many new clients.
We welcomed Report by Lois Jacobs below Barclaycard, McLaren, Hyundai, Arcelik Beko, VM Ware, Chief executive officer Sberbank and Morrisons to Fitch in 2009.
Much of this work was secured through our ability to design both 2D graphics In common with many of our retail clients, 2009 was a and 3D environments.
This rare combination of skills challenging year for Fitch.
While we experienced growth in provides a seamless expression of the brand at all the Asia, other parts of our network were more affected by the different touch points.
The quality and diversity of our creative work, led by When I joined Fitch in April 2009, I took the opportunity Tim Greenhalgh, a frequent speaker at industry events, to confirm our brand positioning both internally and remains very strong.
We continue to win awards in all our externally.
As a global design consultancy we believe we markets and our commitment to our creative work remains influence the world around you by translating brand into uppermost in our hearts with appointments of three new consumer experience.
This focus on the consumer journey creative directors in Columbus, Doha and Mumbai.
is what drives all of us at Fitch and is strengthened both by our branding and our retail expertise.
This articulation of our brand offer is expressed on our new website, Our ability to translate brands into www.
experiences enabled us to win fresh assignments for many new clients Our creative product is fuelled by our insight and our foresight and 2009 saw three significant thought pieces developed by our Global Studio.
We continue to examine the dynamics of Generous Brands: we are exploring how people are increasingly leading Live-styles: and, finally, one that is capturing the imagination of many of our clients: The Serious Business of Play looks into how freedom of interaction and an intuitive environment can lead to loyalty and a greater share of hearts, minds and wallets.
We remain committed to finding and retaining the best talent throughout the company.
To that end appointed three new managing directors Victoria Leavitt in Columbus, James Sundstad in Seattle and Olivier Auroy in Dubai and recruited Carol Ann White as our global HR director.
