What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity to six months.
Many CEOs despaired that by the time the UK with Friends Reunited since revoked.
Others such as solution had been identified, the problem had changed.
The New York Times have made similar moves, but none Using the internet, however, the research process can be seem to have been able to replace the lost revenues by new transformed and responses obtained almost instantly.
For several years in our Annual Report we have WPPs Lightspeed panel interrogates more than 17 million questioned whether NBC would still be a part of GE in a few consumers globally and can deliver answers inside 24 hours.
Would it be sold or spun-off?
Would it merge with You may also be disintermediated by lower-cost business Yahoo!
The gambling industry, for instance, has been shaken the answer a sale to Comcast.
Will even The New York by the emergence of peer-to-peer sport betting sites, cutting Times survive or face the fate of some US newspapers?
The Chicago Tribune filed for bankruptcy protection in Despite the relatively recent vicious compression in 2008.
The San Francisco Chronicle, whose owners have valuations and consequent losses, the financiers of new media warned of a sale or closure, claims to have improved its and technology companies still focus on sales, sales growth finances with a new business model and the Seattle P-I and market share, rather than on operating profits, margins, has gone wholly online.
earnings per share and return on capital employed.
The hour It is no longer enough just to be in the newspaper or of reckoning, however, could be coming for some Web 2.0 network television business: you have to be in the companies.
All, or virtually all, depend on advertising communications business.
This idea is not dissimilar to revenues for their growth and survival.
There will be losers Professor Theodore Levitts analysis of the horse and buggy in the battle to capture those revenues and we may have in the context of the transportation industry.
Rupert Murdoch reached a point in the investment cycle where revenues, is one of the few who seems to understand this.
Perhaps the operating profits and cash flow become paramount.
mistake was not to charge for newspaper content on the web Financing institutions and strategic investors may no longer in the first place.
It is easier to take the consumer down in continue to support excessive valuations by re-financing cash price, rather than up.
If you cant charge for content as strong burn, particularly after a financial crisis.
Even venture capital as Cond Nasts Vogue or The Wall Street Journal, for companies will be more picky about matching or raising example, when can you?
Now media owners seem to have pricing in the next round of financings and may cut off shifted gears, deciding finally to charge for online content funding altogether and admit their mistake.
AOL recently Rupert Murdoch leading the way, Arthur Sulzberger and announced that it will no longer finance Bebo, the social others have finally realised the need.
Paying for content, networking site it bought for $850 million two years further media consolidation and the possible subsidy of previously.
It will either sell it or close it.
traditional content by government are all current trends that These conundrums, however, are nothing compared to will probably continue to develop.
The internet has resulted those faced by traditional media owners, few of whom have in a permanent reduction in the revenues and profitability managed to deal with new technologies.
Take Craigslist, of traditional media owners, but if consumers value content for example.
Established in 1995 by Craig Newmark, the they will pay for it.
site provides largely free classified advertising to millions As a result, clients are re-examining the relative levels of users across the globe.
The result a massive reduction of their advertising and marketing services investment.
in classified advertising revenues for the traditional players.
The econometric analysis of media investment is becoming It is estimated that Craigslist costs newspapers in the San increasingly important.
How much should we spend and Francisco Bay area up to $65 million a year in lost through which media, have become ever more critical employment advertising.
questions the Holy Grail of advertising, the answer to The response from traditional classified advertisers is to which half of advertising is wasted.
produce their own free classified sites.
The effect: a permanent The application of technology and the data it provides reduction in classified advertising revenues, as established are important components to succeed in the new technologyclassified media owners justify their activities as necessary based media.
We had already invested through WPP Digital, cannibalisation.
If they dont eat their own children, someone GroupM, Kantar and our direct and interactive businesses, else will.
The internet is probably the most democratic such as Wunderman, OgilvyOne and G2, before purchasing phenomenon we have seen: free information or nearly free 24 7 Real Media.
This was more than the acquisition of information breaking the tyranny or monopoly of distance.
a digital agency such as the acquisition of jewels like Few newspaper or periodical publishers have mastered the AGENDA, Aqua, Blast Radius, Bridge, BLUE or Schematic.
connection with the new internet platforms.
Rupert Murdochs This was about the development of search technology, rapid and successful purchase of internet assets such as advertiser and publisher websites, the application of MySpace is one example, although the growth rates are technology in general and media sales, and followed, on in decline.
Similar initiatives have come from network a much smaller and less lavish scale, Googles acquisition television: NBC owned by GE with iVillage, and ITV in the of DoubleClick and Microsofts purchase of aQuantive, 90 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
