What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity Announced global M&A activity $tn satisfying than real revenue.
We have seen two of our competitors desperately write cheques or subsidise account Deal value 1.9 1.2 1.4 2.1 2.8 4.0 4.9 3.0 2.0 pitches to the tune of $20 to $30 million to retain accounts 50 Deal volume globally or in the UK one of which decisions has been 40 reversed in 18 months in our favour.
Competitors seem to 30 ignore the exponential risks of going short in markets that 20 may be becoming increasing long, by giving undeliverable 10 media pricing guarantees and failing to book consequent 0 balance sheet liabilities.
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Source: thomson Financial as of March 2010 Outsourcing a way forward?
not alone: retail consolidates, too.
Morrison takes Safeway: Boots and Alliance merge and go private shortly thereafter.
Growing consolidation in our industry is reducing the In Latin America, Walmart enters the north east of Brazil available resources for clients.
It is ever more difficult to find by acquiring part of Aholds interests, Lider consumes co-ordinated resources that can deliver what clients require, Carrefours Chilean interests, and Jumbo buys Disco in particularly if they are an international, multinational or Argentina.
Rumours surround Walmart and Carrefour global company.
Smaller, countryor city-based operations and Home Depot and Kingfisher.
cannot offer the depth of coverage or breadth of resources.
In line with the laws of big numbers, the challenge to One interesting recent development is the growing interest Wal-Mart, Tesco and Home Depot will be how they can in outsourcing parts or all of the marketing function.
Clearly successfully manage expansion outside their home markets.
this is an opportunity for us and is being driven by CEOs Tesco already has over half its square footage outside Britain focus on costs and their analysis of their investment in but much less of its profits and has sent its UK managing marketing services.
Instead of concentrating solely on director to the West Coast to manage its US expansion as amounts spent outside the organisation, closer examination Fresh n Easy.
It will not be simple: the demands are different is being made of amounts spent inside the company.
WPP and the model will be significantly based on rehabilitating has become involved recently in outsourcing projects in the blighted areas on the West Coast.
automotive and internet services industries.
In a number It is no surprise that agencies are also consolidating.
of other areas, including advertising, direct marketing and Havas and Aegis, IPG and Publicis, Dentsu selling its 15% research, there is interest in what can be done in outsourcing stake in Publicis in 2012 to buy a global network of its own costs.
Clearly this tends to make internal marketing effectively a rolling $1.2 billion equity put on Publicis by departments more defensive about their functions.
We have Dentsu, Ipsos, gfk and Nielsen being involved in significant seen much of this, for example, in the media buying area.
consolidation activity in market research are all current rumours.
Certainly in the one area where there are big economies of scale media buying consolidation is Super-agencies: coordinating the best idea at significant.
To negotiate with a Rupert Murdoch, Sumner the best price Redstone, Mel Karmazin, Bob Iger or Jeff Zucker, larger scale is essential.
Media buying, or what we call Media Investment Formed initially in response to the pressures of consolidation Management, is one of WPPs fastest-growing businesses, and to house conflicting accounts, the super-agencies or driven by clients looking for media-buying efficiencies what we at WPP prefer to call the parent companies really rather than reductions in agencys commissions.
Like-for-like represent the full-service agencies of the 21st century.
Long revenue growth in the last four years has consistently been before the phrase integrated communications came into well above WPPs overall like-for-like growth.
Often savings common use, integrated communications were exactly on gross media budgets of 5-10% are achievable.
what such full service agencies provided.
Over time and Media savings are driving client centralisations and are as a result of two pressures these departments became a quick kill in showing efficiencies, as Nestl and Unilever unbundled.
Clients sought to reduce costs and the media and have shown.
The traditional media owners are not only craft specialists within agencies, feeling under-recognised as having to fend off disintermediation by new technologies, but members of a mother agencys department, looked for greater the pricing pressure from significant consolidation of media recognition and reward in free-standing, specialist companies budgets.
But even on the creative side, voracious procurement of their own.
Importantly, this involved a split between the departments and ill-judged price competition by agencies creative agency and the media agency, reducing costs from themselves are driving consolidation the $100 million approximately 15% of gross media costs to about 12%.
pitch win headline in Advertising Age or Campaign is more Good media people left and started independents such 98 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
