How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar The things that the project directors yearned for was a mixture of the big e. g. more drugs, more doctors and Report by Eric Salama below the small e. g. fix the broken solar panels, have a washing Chairman and chief executive officer machine in the malnutrition ward to speed up the process of getting clean sheets back onto the beds.
And so it is in our business.
Our clients and our people Lessons from Malawi need to see progress in big and small ways and our ability to deliver depends on the performance of talented individuals.
Given the enormity of the challenges presented by the The economic climate and scale of the challenge involved economic climate and by the integration of TNS, Malawi in integrating TNS could have paralysed us but it didnt.
may seem like a strange place to start this report.
But that We emerge from 2009 stronger with much of the is where six of us found ourselves early in 2010, travelling restructuring behind us and with significant progress in the country and seeing for ourselves the way in which improving the output and value which our clients receive.
UNICEF had used the $500,000 of donations Kantar people had raised.
You can imagine some of my reactions to that week a Our ambition renewed promise never to take things for granted and a huge pride in the way that Kantar employees have continued to Our ambition is simple: to inspire our clients and people, help the communities in which they work and live and by the and to contribute to WPPs success: way not just through UNICEF but through numerous local Developing profound insights and high-quality data: programs in which we are involved such as Added Value and delivering them to clients at the right time and in such an township.
co. za, Millward Brown North America and Habitat engaging and creative way that they propel clients to make for Humanity, TNS Poland and Precious Gift Program.
But the week also highlighted two things: Having a work environment in which talented passionate All the projects we saw had adequate funding but there people can develop and succeed and be rewarded appropriately.
was a huge difference in the effectiveness and value delivered Growing our revenues ahead of the market while between them, stemming from one factor: the motivation, improving our margins.
determination and vision of the individuals driving them.
As Stan Sthanunathan, VP marketing strategy and insights at Coca-Cola put it recently: It is not about following the change as quickly as possible.
It is about helping companies to shape that change.
Focus on creating the future, not predicting it.
With that ambition in mind, how did we do in 2009?
Inspiring clients Data quality The quality of our data is a core foundation of both our survey research and syndicated outputs and a prerequisite to adding value to clients.
Kantar Media launched the new BARB panel in the UK with incredible skill and professionalism.
Never before have we seen such a smooth transition to a new TV measurement system which has benefited media owners, clients and agencies.
The unit also won the Turkish TV measurement contract and the Norwegian internet contract and retained the business in markets as diverse as Israel, Slovakia and Poland.
In all of these markets, accuracy of ratings and innovation designed to deal with fragmentation of viewing and listening habits are critical and it is gratifying to be recognised through commercial success.
Formerly known as Information, Insight & Consultancy.
