How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg relationship with several clients, partnering with them to pioneer solutions that meet todays demands, to replace old Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below models of physician and patient interaction with new media President and chief executive and digital solutions.
ghgs specialty companies all had an outstanding year, experiencing considerable double-digit growth.
We expanded our oncology business in medical education and advertising with Vogel-Farina and Darwin Grey: WG Consulting has sustained tremendous growth in the area of access and reimbursement consulting: and OnCall launched new, enhanced sales models.
Osprey continued to build innovative, interactive solutions selling and training tools for the sales force and education programs for health care providers.
This business expansion reflects the high level interest in companies for access and reimbursement strategies, as well as a rethinking of the traditional sales and marketing model.
One of the most significant wins was Boehringer Ingelheims Dulcolax global consumer business.
We successfully launched Dulcolax Balance in the US, Germany and Korea, and are working on the launch of a new franchise extension.
We also secured a new global product assignment from Novo Nordisk.
ghg is committed to public health initiatives.
We, along with Voxiva and National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition HMHB, recently launched text4baby, one of the first national mobile health programs in the US, with an unprecedented public and private partnership.
Mobile health promises to be a significant growth area given the movement toward health education and the fact that only 50% of the US population with chronic health problems has internet access but almost 90% have cell phones.
Finally, ghg garnered industry recognition receiving numerous accolades and awards for work created on behalf of clients including Astellas, Boehringer Ingelheim, Essilor, 2009 was an impressive year of solid growth for grey Helen Keller National Center for Deaf-Blind Youth and healthcare group ghg.
Despite global economic upheaval Adults, Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation and Novartis.
and significant challenges in the healthcare industry, ghg At ghg, to build on our own success in 2010, were ready strengthened its position, diversified the client mix, and won to move our clients forward by helping them speak health significant new business from both new and existing clients.
fluently to every audience that matters.
ghg is well placed to lead the industry with its fully integrated multimedia approach to healthcare marketing.
Our new positioning, health spoken here reflects the GCI Health most significant trend today the mass consumerization of health.
Consumers are seeking healthcare information online Report by Wendy Lund at a rapid pace, sharing, engaging and ultimately driving Chief executive officer their own health decisions.
Our mission is to capitalize on this trend by creating high impact campaigns that inform 2009 was a transformational year for GCI Health, a Cohn & doctors and motivate patients to make better decisions to Wolfe company.
In our first full year as a premier healthcare improve health.
We are equally dedicated to speaking about specialty public relations firm, following Cohn & Wolfes health brands to medical professionals in new ways, to merger with GCI, we set out to anticipate and meet the needs deliver meaningful engagement and brand differentiation.
of our clients in a  environment.
With this vision in mind, ghg saw dramatic double-digit Building on our reputation as GCIs powerhouse growth in the US, adding new clients and talent all fueled by healthcare practice since 1986, we leveraged and further organic growth and new business wins from Colgate, Forest, strengthened our solid foundation of expertise in strategic Johnson & Johnson and Novartis.
We expanded our health communications.
