How we behave Directors report The Board of Directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the The fees payable to non-executive directors represent success of the Company by directing and supervising compensation in connection with Board and Board the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to committee meetings and where appropriate for devoting share owners for the Groups financial and operational additional time and expertise for the benefit of the Group performance.
Responsibility for the development and in a wider capacity.
implementation of Group policy and strategy and for Details of directors remuneration and service contracts day-to-day management issues is delegated by the Board form part of the report of the Compensation Committee to the Group chief executive and other executive directors.
For the year under review, Philip Lader continued as chairman of the Board, responsible for the leadership of the Board.
Sir Martin Sorrell, as the Group chief executive, Election of directors continued to be responsible for the development and implementation of policy and strategy and for the day-to-day As a matter of policy the Company requires all directors to operations of the Group.
The biographies of the current submit themselves for re-election by an ordinary resolution Board members appear on pages 104 to 106. of share owners at least every three years or every year in All directors are fully briefed on important developments the case of those non-executive directors who have held office in the various business activities which the Group carries for more than nine years.
Directors may be appointed by out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information share owners by ordinary resolution or by the Board on the concerning the Groups operations, finances, risk factors and recommendation of the Nomination Committee and must its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and obligations then stand for re-election at the next Annual General as directors.
The directors are also frequently advised on Meeting where they may be re-elected by ordinary resolution regulatory and best practice requirements which affect the of the share owners.
Groups businesses on a global basis, but particularly in the The Board recommends that share owners vote in US and the UK.
favour of the resolutions to re-elect the relevant directors, During 2009, the Board met six times formally and namely Philip Lader, Esther Dyson, Stanley Bud Morten, held 22 committee meetings throughout the year.
With the John Quelch, and Paul Richardson, and sets out their reasons exception of John Quelch, Colin Day, Esther Dyson and for this recommendation in the Appendix to the Notice of Orit Gadiesh each absent for one meeting, Tim Shriver the Annual General Meeting.
absent for two meetings, Lubna Olayan absent for three meetings and Koichiro Naganuma who was only able to attend one meeting, there was full attendance at all formal Conflicts of interest meetings of the Board during 2009.
The Board was composed of 14 directors in 2009 The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board following the retirement of David Komansky on 6 February to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where 2009.
Three members are executive directors and 10, plus a director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly the chairman, are non-executive directors.
The Board conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational considers that eight of the 10 non-executive directors, in Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for addition to the chairman, are independent.
John Quelch directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered and Koichiro Naganuma are the only non-executive directors for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the Board considers are not independent.
In deciding whether to authorise The shareholdings of non-executive directors are set out a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act on page 143.
Non-executive directors do not participate in honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests the Companys pension, share option or other incentive plans, of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions but may receive a part of their fees in ordinary shares of the when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think Company and may participate in the Companys deferred this is appropriate.
Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any The Board considers that the non-executive directors authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
remuneration conforms with the requirements of the The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding Combined Code.
whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.
114 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Directors report Committee meetings update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the Annual General Meeting.
The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of the The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue committees of the Board during 2009 was as follows: with share owners and their representative bodies through executive and non-executive directors in relation to Nomination Audit Compensation remuneration and corporate governance matters as and Committee Committee Committee when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to 1 Philip lader 3 8 11 the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
2 Bud Morten 3 7 11 WPPs website, www.
com, provides current and Jeffrey rosen n a 8 11 historical financial information, including trading statements, Paul Spencer n a 8 n a news releases and presentations and the Companys esther Dyson 2 n a 11 statement of its corporate governance practices.
orit Gadiesh 3 n a n a Colin Day n a 8 n a lubna olayan 3 n a n a Internal control tim Shriver n a 7 n a 1 By invitation, the chairman attended all of the Audit Committee meetings.
WPP operates a system of internal control, which is 2 By invitation, Bud Morten attended all but one of the Audit Committee Meetings and all maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined of the Compensation and nomination Committee meetings.
Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as During 2009, the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities Exchange Act chaired by Paul Richardson, met once on a formal basis and 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has had many informal discussions.
Their report for 2009 starts complied throughout the year and up to the date of the on page 122. approval of this Annual Report and Accounts with the The Disclosure Committee, which met four times during Turnbull Report and has also complied with the relevant 2009, is comprised of senior executives from Group financial provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human resource The Board which receives advice from the Audit and investor relations departments.
The purpose of the Committee has overall responsibility for the system of Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the internal control and risk management in the Group and has Board and its committees in relation to the content of major reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year and financial public statements and advises the Audit Committee up to the date of this report.
In the context of the scope and and the Board on their disclosure obligations generally and complexity of this system, the Board can only give reasonable, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so as to enable the not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Board to comply with all relevant provisions.
The system of controls is designed to manage, but may not eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates Share owner relations controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within The relationship with share owners, potential share owners our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners and investment analysts is given the highest priority by boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
The principal elements of internal control are The Company has a well-developed and continuous described below.
program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information Control environment about the Company, its strategy, performance and competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, of the Companys current and potential share owners, this ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Groups system of internal control.
the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly deputy Group finance director and the head of investor reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and was relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major updated in 2009, sets out the principal obligations of all financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific employees.
Directors and senior executives throughout the and Latin America.
The Company provides a preliminary Group are required each year to sign this Code.
The WPP announcement, an interim management statement at the Policy Book which also is regularly updated includes the end of the first and third quarters which includes a trading Code of Business Conduct and human resource practices, WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 115 How we behave Directors report as well as guidance on practices in many operational areas.
Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level investigated by the director of internal audit and the Group within the Group.
The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right Control activities and monitoring to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel unable to raise locally.
A number of issues have been raised Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set during 2009 through 43 calls to this helpline, all of which out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal have been followed through and investigated where control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
of these policies and procedures is monitored within the individual businesses and by the Companys director of Risk assessment internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
Operating companies are required to maintain and Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout update documentation of their internal controls and the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis executive, the Group finance director, the chairman of of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, the Audit Committee and the Board, as it is essential to together with controls over security of data and the provision the creation and protection of share owner value and the of timely and reliable information to management.
IT and development of the careers of our people.
The Board realises financial controls are also included.
that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity The internal audit department was responsible for reviews depends on being able to continue to provide a quality service and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls to its existing and potential clients in a creative, efficient and for a majority of the Group during 2009, the results of which economic way.
were reported to the Audit Committee.
At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive presents a Brand Check review of each of the business Financial reporting operations, including an assessment of the risk in each business, providing feedback on the business risks and details Each operating company annually updates a three-year of any change in the risk profile since the last Board meeting.
strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
The Brand Check covers such issues as: These are reviewed by the parent companys management the possibility of the loss or win of major business e. g. as and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant a result of a change of senior management at a major client : operating company.
loss of a key executive of the Group: The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the introduction of new legislation in an important market: development of operating company budgets which build corporate responsibility: up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each political instability in an important market: and financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
for the following year for review by the parent company.
Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being procedures and day-to-day management activities to review adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported their operations and business risks.
These are formally monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally communicated to the Group chief executive, other executive by the business groups and by Group management on a directors and senior executives in quarterly review meetings consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results and, in turn, to the Board.
are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year The Board is firmly of the opinion that the monitoring of forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout risk is strongly embedded in the culture of the Company and the year.
The Company reports to share owners four times of the operating companies, in a manner which the Board a year.
considers goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and At each year-end, all operating companies supply their the requirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities full-year financial results with such additional information as Exchange Act 1934. is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to allow the Group to present the necessary disclosures for International Principal risks and uncertainties Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Accounting Standards IAS.
The Board has considered the principal risks and The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2009 publicly-released information is free from material omission and up to the date of this report.
These are described on or misstatement.
As set out above, the 116 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Directors report Principal risks and uncertainties Issue Potential impact How it is managed Economic the Groups businesses are subject to reduction in client spending or postponing spending on reduction in headcount and overhead.
Many the services offered by the Group or switching of client ensuring that variable staff costs are a significant of the economies in which the Group expenditure to non-traditional media and renegotiation proportion of total staff costs and revenue.
operates have been under significant of contract terms leading to reduced profitability Increased controls over capital expenditure stress or in recession.
Strategic focus on BrICs, the next 11, new media and consumer insight.
Brand Check at every Board meeting.
Financial Currency exchange rate fluctuations the Companys reporting currency is pounds sterling.
Given the balance sheet and cash flows of the could adversely impact the Groups the Groups significant international operations, changes in Company are hedged by borrowing in consolidated results.
exchange rates cause fluctuations in the Companys results the currency of those cash flows.
when measured in pounds sterling.
the Company publishes and explains its results in constant currency terms, as well as in sterling and on an actual dollar basis.
Changes to the Groups debt issue ratings the Companys long-term debt is currently rated Baa3 Active dialogue with the rating agencies to by the rating agencies Moodys Investor and BBB by the rating agencies respectively and the ensure they are fully apprised of any actions Services and Standard and Poors rating Companys short-term debt obligations P3 and A3 that may affect the Companys debt ratings.
Service may affect the Groups access to respectively.
Standard and Poors rating Service has placed the Company also seeks to manage its financial debt capital.
the Companys debt ratings on negative outlook.
If the ratios and to pursue policies so as to maintain Companys financial performance and outlook materially its investment grade ratings.
deteriorate, a ratings downgrade could occur and the the Company has published half yearly its interest rates and fees payable on certain of the Companys banking covenant compliance ratios and revolving credit facilities could be increased.
quantified the financial impact should there be a fall in ratings to non-investment grade.
the Group may be unable to collect the Group is generally paid in arrears for its services.
evaluating and monitoring clients ongoing balances due from any client that files Invoices are typically payable within 30 to 60 days.
creditworthiness and in some cases requiring for bankruptcy or becomes insolvent.
credit insurance or payments in advance.
the Group commits to media and production purchases on behalf of some of its clients as principal or agent depending on the client and market circumstances.
If a client is unable to pay sums due, media and production companies may look to the Group to pay such amounts to which it committed as an agent on behalf of those clients.
Mergers & Acquisitions the Group may be unsuccessful in the Group regularly reviews potential acquisitions of Business, legal, tax and financial due diligence evaluating material risks involved in businesses that are complementary to its operations and carried out prior to acquisition to seek to identify completed and future acquisitions clients needs.
If material risks are not identified prior to and evaluate material risks and plan the and may be unsuccessful in integrating acquisition or the Group experiences difficulties in integration process.
Warranties and indemnities any acquired operations with its integrating an acquired business, it may not realise the included in purchase agreements.
expected benefits from such acquisition and the Groups Audit Committee oversight of acquisition and financial condition could be adversely affected.
Board oversight of material acquisitions and review of the integration and performance of recent and prior acquisitions.
Goodwill and other acquired intangible the Group has a significant amount of goodwill and other regular impairment testing which is a recurring assets recorded on the Groups balance acquired intangible assets recorded on its balance sheet agenda item for the Audit Committee.
sheet with respect to acquired with respect to acquired companies.
the Group annually companies may become impaired.
tests the carrying value of goodwill for impairment.
the estimates and assumptions about results of operations and cash flows made in connection with impairment testing could differ from future results of operations and cash flows.
Future events could cause the Group to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation have become impaired which could have a material impact on the Groups financial condition.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 117 How we behave Directors report Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients the Group competes for clients in a Competitors include large multinational advertising and operating companies seek to establish reputations highly competitive industry and client marketing communication companies and regional and in the industry that attract and retain clients, loss may reduce market share and national marketing services companies.
including by improving the quality of their decrease profits.
new market participants include database marketing and modelling companies, telemarketers the Groups different agency networks limit and internet companies.
potential conflicts of interest and the Groups crossdiscipline team approach seeks to retain clients.
Service agreements with clients are generally terminated by the client on 90 days notice and many clients put Brand Check at every Board meeting.
their advertising and communications business up for competitive review from time to time.
the ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also in some cases be limited by clients policies about conflicts of interest.
the Group receives a significant portion A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant Global client account managers seek of its revenues from a limited number percentage of the Groups consolidated revenues.
the to ensure the Group maintains partnership of large clients and the loss of these Groups 10 largest clients accounted for almost 18% of relationship with major clients.
operating clients could adversely impact the revenues in the year ended 31 December 2009.
Clients companies seek to establish reputations Groups prospects, business, financial generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing in the industry that attract and retain clients condition and results of operations.
spend or cancel projects on short notice.
the loss of one or and key talent.
more of the Groups largest clients, if not replaced by new Brand Check at every Board meeting client accounts or an increase in business from existing and regular dialogue between directors clients, would adversely affect the Groups of the Company and directors of the Groups financial condition.
Operational the Group operates in 107 countries and the Groups international operations are subject Affiliate, associate and joint venture structures is exposed to the risks of doing business to exchange rate fluctuations, restrictions and or taxation with local partners used in developing markets.
on repatriations of earnings, social, political and economic Brand Check at every Board meeting.
instability, conflicts of laws and interpretation of contracts.
uniform approach to internal controls ensuring best practice employed in all jurisdictions.
People the Groups performance could be the Group is highly dependent on the talent, creative the Groups incentive plans are structured to adversely affected if it were unable abilities and technical skills of our personnel as well as their provide retention value for example by paying to attract and retain key talent or relationships with clients.
the Group is vulnerable to the loss part of annual incentives in shares that vest had inadequate talent management of personnel to competitors and clients leading to disruption two years after grant and having a five-year and succession planning for key to the business.
operating companies seek to establish reputations in the industry that attract and retain key personnel, including by improving the quality of their creative output.
Succession planning of key executives is a recurring agenda item of the Board and nomination Committee.
Regulatory Legal the Group may be subject to regulations Governments, government agencies and industry the Group actively monitors any proposed affecting its activities.
self-regulatory bodies from time to time adopt statutes regulatory or statutory changes and consults and regulations that directly or indirectly affect the form, with government agencies and regulatory content and scheduling of advertising, public relations and bodies where possible on such proposed changes.
public affairs and market research or otherwise limit the regular briefings to the Audit Committee of scope of the activities of the Group and its clients which significant regulatory or statutory changes.
could have a material adverse impact on our financial position.
Changes in tax laws or their application may Group representation on a number of industry also adversely affect the Groups reported results.
the Group may be exposed to liabilities the Group may be, or may be joined as a defendant, in the Group seeks to comply with all laws and from allegations that certain of its clients litigation brought against its clients in respect of services industry codes governing marketing material.
advertising claims may be false or provided by the Group.
upward referral procedure within operating misleading or that its clients products companies and to WPP ethical review meetings.
118 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Directors report Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors The provisions of section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley are also required to: Act require the Companys management to report on the properly select and apply accounting policies: effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting present information, including accounting policies, in its Annual Report on Form 20-F which is filed with in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The 2008 and understandable information: assessment and related report from the external auditors provide additional disclosures, when compliance with the confirmed that the Companys internal control over specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users financial reporting was effective and included in the to understand the impact of particular transactions, other Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year events and conditions on the entitys financial position and ended 31 December 2008.
The 2009 assessment and related financial performance: and report will be included in the Companys Annual Report make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue on Form 20-F that will be published in May 2010. as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy Going concern at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the The directors are required to consider whether it is prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the basis and for the preparation of a directors report and directors that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares The directors are responsible for the maintenance annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this and integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation information and in particular the 2010 three-year plan and UK regulation governing the preparation and and budget the directors believe that the Company and the dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, there the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Further details of the Groups financial position auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps and borrowing facilities are described in note 24 of the that he or she ought to have taken, as a director, in order financial statements.
to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibilities in respect of the preparation The following information, together with the letters of financial statements from the chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Compensation Committees, the statements regarding The directors are responsible for preparing the financial directors responsibilities and statement of going concern statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
set out above and the directors remuneration and interests The directors have elected to prepare financial statements for in the share capital of the Company set out on pages 139 to the Group in accordance with International Financial 143, are included in the Directors report, which also includes Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRSs and have the sections Letter to share owners, Who runs WPP and also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company What we think.
in accordance with UK accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Substantial share ownership International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year As at 16 April 2010, the Company is aware of the following the Companys financial position, financial performance interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation Blackrock Inc. 5.10% of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions AXA S. A.
4.95% in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Massachusetts Financial Services Company 4.84% for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the legal & General 3.99% International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 119 How we behave Directors report September 2014, contain provisions which are triggered on The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests bonds other than the 450 million 5.75% bonds have the associated with them.
right to repayment at par except for holders of the $600 The Company has not been notified of any other holdings million 8% bonds where the holders have the right to redeem of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
the bonds at 101% of par if the Company is non-investment grade at the time of the change of control or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the announcement Profits and dividends of the change of control.
In addition the Group has a $1.6 billion Revolving Credit The profit before tax for the year was 662.6 million Facility due August 2012 and a 400 million Revolving 2008: 746.8 million.
The directors declared a second Credit Facility agreement expiring July 2011, the terms of interim dividend of 10.28p 2008: 10.28p per share paid on which require the consent of the majority of the lenders if 1 April 2010 to share owners on the register at 19 March a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company would 2010 which, together with the first interim ordinary dividend alter its legal personality or identity.
of 5.19p 2008: 5.19p per share paid on 9 November 2009, The impact of a change of control on WPPs incentive makes a total of 15.47p for the year 2008: 15.47p.
plans is dealt with on page 138.
Charitable donations Articles of Association Our head office made charitable donations of 191,000 There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of 2008: 201,000.
Collectively, WPP companies together Association of the Company other than the need to pass with the parent company made an estimated 4.1 million a special resolution of the share owners.
More detailed information regarding the Groups support of charities is set out in the section dealing with corporate responsibility on pages 122 Group activities to 133.
It is the Companys policy not to make payments The principal activity of the Group continues to be the for political purposes.
provision of communications and marketing services worldwide.
The Company acts only as a parent company and does not trade.
Significant agreements and change of control In addition to the financing agreements to which the Share capital Company is a party, details of which are given in note 24 on page 169, the Company is a party to an agreement with The Companys authorised share capital consists solely Asatsu-DK Inc dated 3 August 1998 pursuant to which of 175,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company WPP subscribed for 20% at that time of the share capital operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The of Asatsu and Asatsu subscribed for approximately 4% rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital at that time of the issued share capital of WPP.
The are outlined in the Articles of Association: there are no respective shareholdings may only be transferred following a restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting rights procedure set out in the agreement.
WPP and Asatsu are each and no securities carry special voting rights with regard entitled to nominate a non-executive director to the board to control of the Company.
of the other subject to retaining its shareholding in the other.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2009, share Each of the 600 million 4.375% bonds due in December owners passed resolutions authorising the Company, in 2013, 400 million 6% bonds due in April 2017, 500 accordance with its Articles of Association, to allot shares million 5.25% bonds due in January 2015, 750 million up to a maximum nominal amount of 45,985,690 of 6.625% bonds due 2016, the 200 million 6.375% bonds which 6,276,908 could be allotted for cash free of statutory due November 2020, 450 million 5.75% convertible pre-emption rights.
In the year under review no shares were bonds due May 2014 and the $600 million 8% bonds due issued for cash free from pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital movements are given in note 26 on pages 171 to 175.
120 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Directors report Authority for purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2009 share owners passed a special resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 125,294,634 of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, 2,435,288 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were purchased to be held as treasury shares at an average price of 3.92 per share.
Supplier payment policy The Company has no trade creditors because it is a parent company and does not generate trading revenues.
Accordingly, no disclosure can be made of year-end trade creditor days.
However, the Groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction and to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.
The average trade creditors for the Group, expressed as a number of days, were 45 2008: 46.
Auditors Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditors of the Company on incorporation and the directors will propose a resolution at the AGM to re-appoint them.
By Order of the Board: Marie Capes Company Secretary 16 April 2010 the sections headed letter to share owners, Who we are and What we think should be read in conjunction with and as part of the section headed Directors report.
