How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM product and service categories.
Many of these categories were severely impacted by the global economic downturn Report by Irwin Gotlieb below that began in 2008 and extended throughout last year, and Chief executive officer no category was unaffected.
This put us in the position of dealing with the dual challenge of helping our clients through The year 2009 was an eventful one for GroupM, the parent the recession while simultaneously managing our own company to WPPs media agencies Maxus, MediaCom, business to mitigate adverse effects.
We had to provide the MEC and Mindshare.
RECMA, the independent highest possible level of service and support to our clients, organization that measures media agency sector operations, extract greater value for their media investments and do reported that GroupM held a 32.4% share of the total so with improved operational efficiency on our side.
It was, measured volume among all global media agency networks.
to be sure, a delicate balance.
The figure indicates that we grew our share of global media Despite these formidable challenges, each of our agencies by a full share point over the previous year.
As such, once scored impressive new business gains in what was the most again GroupM established itself as the worlds leading difficult competitive environment we have ever encountered.
global media investment management company with more These wins, along with a record number of industry awards, than $84 billion in worldwide billings RECMA reported, are outlined in the individual agency accounts that follow more than 44% ahead of our closest competitor in billings.
Beyond those accomplishments, GroupM GroupMs primary goal is to support each of our also developed new initiatives designed to keep our company operating companies as both a parent company and a at the forefront of the media services business and maintain collaborator in activities that benefit our clients, including our global reputation as a pioneering influence throughout trading, content creation, digital communications, new our industry.
business, finance, proprietary tool development and other In difficult economic times, clients place greater emphasis critical capabilities.
and priority on improved media pricing and the exploitation 2009 was definitely a difficult year.
It was a difficult year of opportunities associated with media deflation.
GroupM, for us because it was a difficult year for our clients.
GroupM with our focus on the intelligent application of scale, made agencies represent clients that run the gamut of all significant further advances in organizing our trading structures to maximize the value that we can deliver to clients.
Our advanced marketplace analytics, benchmarking and market simulation modeling informed our trading strategies and provided best-in-class results for our clients.
In the area of online investment, GroupM took a breakthrough, pioneering stance when we became the only major media agency company to change the terms and conditions of online advertising buys to address the issue of data usage rights.
This will serve to protect the confidentiality of our agencies and clients data and ensure that we have influence over the use of such data.
GroupM also led a team of WPP companies to develop an industry approach to online self-regulation by creating a standard icon to appear on all  advertising that will allow consumers to control what information is shared with advertisers.
The initiative has been endorsed by the US Federal Trade Commission as a positive move toward self-regulation.
We were also active in the area of digital research projects.
In October 2009, GroupM Search and comScore, Inc. a leader in measuring the digital world, announced the results of the first study ever conducted by comScore looking at the relationship between social media exposure and search behaviors.
Conducted in tandem with our social media agency M80, the study, The Influenced: Social Media, Search and the Interplay of Consideration and Consumption, revealed the dramatic correlation that influenced discovery of brands through social media has with search behavior, including more lower-funnel searches and increased paid search click-through-rates CTR.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 51 How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM also continued to be a leader in forecasting and financed Battle of the Blades for the Canadian worldwide advertising spending in both traditional and Broadcasting Corporation, which became the No.
1 rated digital media, issuing several This Year, Next Year forecast primetime series to originate in Canada, as well as a new reports and periodic updates throughout 2009.
Last year daytime and primetime series with Channel 5 in the UK.
we published forecasts on the UK and Russian markets, GroupM also aggressively continues to pursue and as well as a worldwide report that received widespread press advance our investments in new technologies and systems to coverage and was presented at the annual Global Media maintain our history of driving innovation and influencing and Communications Conference, hosted by investment our industry.
The worldwide report, traditionally We firmly believe it is our responsibility not only to issued early in the year, is then updated and released about explore but also to lead the market in new directions and six to eight months later.
catalyze the development of innovative opportunities for our clients.
These investments include our 2007 equity stake in Invidi Technologies Corporation, which advanced our role GroupM also aggressively in addressable television advertising, which will set new standards in targeting precision and accountability.
We have continues to pursue and advance our formed key partnerships to speed deployment and adoption investments in new technologies and of these technologies.
All of these moves reflect our belief systems to maintain our history of that within the next few years all media will be addressable, capable of requests for information RFIs and message driving innovation and influencing telescoping in which viewers can request a longer version of our industry the commercial message, census-level measurable and even transaction-capable.
We are taking steps today to ensure that GroupM and its agencies proactively shape the future and The year was also eventful in the field of branded maintain leadership in this space.
In October 2009, In 2009, we learned to operate at new levels of efficiency, GroupM Entertainment and Yahoo!
announced a partnership to deliver greater value to our clients and to exploit to help marketers creatively incorporate their brands into technologies to improve the targeting and accountability of original online programming.
GroupM also expanded its our business.
Our actions are designed to further GroupMs international content operations and we now manage content position in the media services marketplace for the benefit of in North America, Europe and Asia.
In the US, Mindshare our stakeholders, while at the same time expanding on the and GroupM Entertainment partnered with Disney ABC to competitive advantage that we bring to our clients.
We will produce In the Motherhood, the first ever network television continue to be aggressive in our efforts to realize both of series to have originated as a branded content internet project those goals throughout the coming year.
produced by a media services agency.
GME also co-produced 52 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
