How were doing Branding & Identity Fitch full report on page 68 The Partners In common with many of its retail clients, 2009 was a The Partners grew from strength to strength, delivering challenging year for Fitch.
While the company experienced excellent growth in revenue.
The agencys focus on big growth in Asia, other parts of its network were more affected ideas and creative excellence helped it to grow key client by the economic downturn.
relationships with Aviva, Deloitte, Imperial Tobacco, Fitchs ability to translate brands into experiences enabled Network Rail and Novo Nordisk.
it to win fresh assignments for many new clients.
The Led by CEO Jim Prior, The Partners continues to be company welcomed Barclaycard, McLaren, Hyundai, Arcelik one of the most creatively recognized agencies in the world.
Beko, VM Ware, Sberbank and Morrisons to Fitch in 2009.
Under the creative stewardship of Greg Quinton, they were awarded first position in Design Weeks Creative Survey: it won two Design Lions at Cannes and several other awards Lambie-Nairn from Graphis, Clio, New York Art Directors Club and Mobius, among others.
Pursuing the strategy of One agency, Lambie-Nairn delivered a strong operating profit margin.
two doors, The Partners exported its superior creative The company continued to build key client relationships with reputation to successfully build its office in New York.
2009 was a year of exciting 2 geographic expansion based on client needs.
Lambie-Nairns office in Munich continued to grow, adding EADs, Airtours VBAT and Scleich: it maintained its dominance of the Middle Eastern media market with MBC, Abu Dhabi Media Under the leadership of chairman Eugene Bay and new CEO, Company and Baynounah among their clients.
Robert fide Groot, VBAT continued to drive a strong and The companys most significant win was the appointment steady business built upon its long-term relationships with to develop and undertake the global brand guardianship for Campina, Heineken, Intergamma, NS Dutch railway, and the Telefnica Group.
This high-profile program will involve SNS REAAL.
VBAT focused on building its retail expertise, the creation of new hubs in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, leading to new opportunities with Jumbo supermarkets.
This project lays the foundation for a Business innovations included the development of a strategic footprint for Lambie-Nairn and the B to D Group new low-cost production offer, GroundFloor.
VBAT was in South America.
Led by CEO Christian Schroeder, Lambierecognized with a silver Penta award for Jillz, a HeinekenNairn is poised to deliver ongoing growth, propelling it to owned cider brand.
The company continued to build its become more of an international player.
international profile, with successful launches for Banco fide Chile, Cristal Beer Chile, and Maes Beer Belgium.
Landor Associates full report on page 43 Landors performance in 2009 differed dramatically, depending from where you viewed it.
In the US, Landors all-important financial engine, margins were quite exceptional.
But it was patchy in Europe where the recession bit.
Landor was Marketing magazines Branding Agency of the Year in Greater China, but the company suffered in the Middle East where the market for its services was undermined by events in Dubai.
Business with most of its long-term clients performed very well indeed but the number of new business opportunities around most of the world dropped dramatically.
The net result of all this is that, while revenue and operating profit were down on the previous year, the company nevertheless weathered this recession better than most.
