How were doing Agency networks brand association and actions taken among 30,000 ads.
communications, we have expanded our comprehensive Our ads for P&Gs Pantene and Allergans Latisse took leadership development and training programs and launched the top rank in their categories.
innovative internet learning and knowledge sharing Among the hundreds of pro bono campaigns Grey programs.
contributes to its communities around the world, one In 2009, we turned challenge to opportunity and deserves special mention.
Grey New York has created several prospered in the face of tough economic conditions.
We led national public service efforts for the US Department of the way and exceeded the expectations of our clients.
As the Health and Human Services HHS, in collaboration with world recovers, we expect Grey to set the pace and excel the Ad Council, to raise awareness and action to address in 2010. mental health problems among young adults in the AfricanAmerican community.
We were pleased to receive the HHS Voice Award in 2009.
G2 Activation Marketing Wing, our multicultural communications agency, was named Best Hispanic New York Marketing Firm Using Report by Joe Celia below Social Media by Latinos in Social Media LATISM, the Chairman and chief executive officer, G2 Worldwide largest organization of social media professionals of Vice chairman, Grey Group Hispanic origin.
Once again, Greys Eye on Asia proprietary trends study In 2009 we experienced the toughest global economic opened a window into the regions psyche and provided our environment that the world has seen since the Great clients with actionable information on coping with the Depression.
With marketers under considerable pressure to recession.
This project, spearheaded by Nirvik Singh, reduce costs, we, in turn, felt that pressure as clients reduced chairman and CEO of Grey Group Asia Pacific, continues budgets and asked agencies to do more for less.
to showcase Greys thought leadership via millions of readers Yet during this challenging period we experienced a of the worlds media and has become a model for future positive side with many of our key clients reaffirming the global efforts.
The drive and commitment Suresh Nair, director of global strategic planning, of the people who comprise the G2 organisations around Grey Group, launched our Worldwide Planning Council.
the world was more apparent than ever.
We made positive The council, building on Greys long tradition of prestrides both in winning business and in raising our standing eminence in consumer insight, is refining our common in the industry.
strategic platform, tools and language to create G2s top 20 clients account for the lions share of our total communications that resonate across every channel.
Im happy to say that these critical client Grey continues to rank among the top tier of global relationships remained strong even in the face of the recession.
advertising agencies because of the reach and resources We were given incremental assignments from P&G and BAT of our network in 96 countries.
Our blue-chip client roster around the world for a range of brands and expanded our counts one-fifth of all Fortune 500 companies and our legacy of launching and sustaining leading brands continues to progress in todays media landscape.
Today, we are producing some of the most leading-edge creative work across platforms, breaking new ground in brand experience and building relationships.
com to see our successful case histories across countries, cultures and the media spectrum.
We added to our digital marketing offering by recruiting renowned digital creative leaders and expanding our digital centers of excellence in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Importantly, we have strengthened our synergy with G2.
We are delivering a seamless, integrated offering that unites the creative expertise of Grey with the activation marketing expertise of G2.
This powerful competitive advantage resulted in dozens of joint new business wins across the globe.
During the past three years, we have welcomed a tremendous infusion of world-class talent to our ranks in creative, planning, digital and management worldwide.
To keep pace with the warp-speed change in WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 47 How were doing Agency networks relationship with Heineken both in LatAm and the US.
Also Hiring, retaining and utilizing the best talent continues in the US, we won new assignments from Adobe, Liberty to be a priority for our organization.
After five years as CEO, Mutual, Boehringer Ingelheim, Time Warner, Allergan, Kraft Grey Group Central & Eastern Europe, Pietro Leone joined and MARS.
Additional work was awarded by Nokia to G2 our G2 global management team as chief operating officer, Interactive in Spain: by Volkswagen in Germany, China and G2 EMEA.
Pietro also joined G2s Global Management Spain: and by Coca-Cola to argonauten G2 in Germany.
Board alongside myself, Matthew Schetlick, Jonathan Dodd, We take great pride in the fact that our clients value what Ken Levy, Nirvik Singh and John Paulson.
we do and even in a tough economic environment are willing Jim Taylor, formerly of MEC, where he was the agencys to invest their money in our expertise.
communications retail director and planning partner, joined Despite the overall decline in pitches being held in 2009, G2 in the newly created role of global communications we were fortunate to be able to add several new major brands planning director.
In Jim, we now have one of the worlds to our portfolio.
In the US, our promotional marketing group leading authorities on communications planning, an won a significant assignment from Waste Management and increasingly vital element of G2s offer.
In North America, our digital team brought new client Electronic Arts EA Marty Laiks was promoted to director, strategy, in our Gaming on board.
In EMEA, G2 UK won a major integrated Relationship Marketing group, driving the growth of this marketing project for Nectar loyalty cards and G2 important area of the business.
Amsterdam won an assignment from Unilever.
In LatAm, In LatAm, G2s Steve Stroud, who has led G2 Mexico Natura Brazilian cosmetics company tapped MDSBrazil very successfully since 2007 and was instrumental in our for a database and loyalty program.
In APAC, G2 Japan growth and success in that market, was promoted to won work from Glacau vitaminwater and Cadbury: G2 president and CEO of Grey Group Mexico, overseeing both China from Hallmark and G2 Vietnam added Bayer to its G2 and Grey in this market.
At G2, we believe that companies should bring more to In 2009, Advertising Age magazine published its the world than just their commercial offering.
G2 made a good showing, partnered with Save The Children to build a school in Mali, and moved up in all key rankings: Africa.
By the end of the year, the school was up and running Marketing Services Agency Networks G2 retained its and filled with young students.
We are now working to build ranking among the Top 5 worldwide.
a well to provide fresh water for an entire village.
Promotion and Event Marketing Agencies G2 ranked Looking ahead for 2010, I think we can be cautiously No.
The consensus seems to be that the worst of the Digital Agencies G2 moved into the Top 25 worldwide.
recession is behind us in most parts of the world.
While that Direct Marketing Agencies G2 moved into the Top would certainly be welcome news, there are still tough 15 worldwide.
In The Hub magazine, a US publication dedicated to In 2010 we will be focusing on driving home to clients and retail and shopper marketing, G2 made a good showing in prospective clients the value that we bring to their business.
their Best of the Best Agencies report as one of the Top 10 We as marketers have developed great expertise in convincing shopper marketing agencies.
In B to B magazines Direct consumers that our clients brands provide greater value than Agency of the Year competition, G2 was first runner-up their competitors.
That is how we make our living.
against the best direct agencies in the business.
These The agencies that succeed in the long run will be the rankings were the result of a combination of great work, ones that clients perceive offer greater value, not necessarily new business wins and recognized talent.
the ones with the lowest cost.
They will equate value with For the third year, G2 partnered with The Economist to positive impact on their business.
Therefore, we will put sponsor the Media Convergence Forum, an event dedicated increased focus on making G2 invaluable in the marketplace.
to discussion and debate surrounding the rapidly changing We will do that via creativity, superior skill in our core media and marketing landscape.
We gathered a unique disciplines, of Retail & Promotional Marketing, Relationship group of thought leaders, including CMOs, media executives, Marketing, Data & Analytics, and all things digital.
That, marketing psychologists, technology experts, futurists and coupled with our superior ability to bring multifaceted other communications professionals to peer into the future to programs together will be our winning formula.
consider the ideas, technologies and tactics that are changing This year we will also be rolling out a new and exciting our industry.
As part of the event, G2 hosted a panel process and set of tools, proprietary to G2 and unique in the discussion on the challenges facing marketers bombarded marketplace, which will become the underpinning for our with a plethora of new media alternatives, a subject wellpositioning in the marketplace.
This has been a tough time, suited to G2s expertise.
The panel included senior executives but the future is looking bright, or at least brighter.
We are from Google, MySpace and Twitter.
getting stronger every year, and will continue to do so.
