How were doing Agency networks Young & Rubicam We created, produced and sold original sports entertainment properties for TV for Cellular South, and will leverage the Report by Hamish McLennan below resulting TV sponsorship opportunity with other clients.
Chairman and chief executive officer In Singapore, we used guerilla theater to raise awareness for Colgate-Palmolives Oral Health Month.
A digital campaign 2009 was tough for so many industry sectors and for so many from SAA Y&R Tel Aviv helped launch a new entertainment of our clients customers.
We took the year as a challenge to and movies portal for Orange.
Using advanced technology that help our clients navigate the economic uncertainties in a way detected light intensity, a banner redirected users to the new that found opportunities for their brands, connected them portal, but only if they followed the instruction to turn off the with their consumers in new ways and positioned them well lights just like at the movies.
Inventive film and digital work for the future.
Tough times inspired us to be innovative, from RKCR Young & Rubicam London continued to help the inventive, creative and true to our credo to Resist the Usual.
agencys strength in its market.
After several years of quietly getting our house in order, All around the network, strong ideas, fueled by our Young & Rubicam was primed for the challenge.
We have proprietary knowledge and our ability to interpret data into strong global creative leadership in Tony Granger and are leveragable insights, gave our clients differentiating artillery building a broad and diverse base of creative talent around to do battle in the hyper-competitive marketplace and the the world.
We have solid regional management.
We are incentive to award us with new assignments.
Young & Rubicam North America, despite being at the epicenter of the worlds economic turmoil, made progress.
We built on existing relationships with Mattel, adding their Just Like You brand of American Girl and consolidating the Boys, Girls and Games divisions at Young & Rubicam.
Our agencies attracted a string of new clients, including Hotels.
com, Bonefish Grill and Round Table Pizza.
Our EMEA region added new assignments from Danone and Barilla, regained Erste Bank and, as cited earlier, attracted Pirelli back to the agency.
Local wins helped balance budget cuts.
We made great progress in integrating our digital capabilities with the launch of 11 VML agencies in the region.
In Latin America, Young & Rubicam sustained its creative prowess in the region and, for the seventh consecutive year, As an agency uniquely organized to drive strong results Young & Rubicam Brazil was ranked No.
through our regional hub structure and through brilliant New wins came from Hotels.
com, Schering Plough, HSBC work across borders and platforms, we found opportunities BTL business, Banco fide Galicia and Direct TV, among others.
with new global clients like Dell, where Young & Rubicam In Asia, Neil Cotton joined as the regional chief strategy has now taken a lead role on this massive assignment.
Young & Rubicam Asia made a major leap into the We had strong new business from existing clients like LG, red-hot retail shopper marketing area: the successful start-up Bacardi and Danone, as well as regional clients like Sears, in Hong Kong will now be replicated in other markets.
TAM, Cellular South, Office Depot, Western Union, Citrix Young & Rubicam Singapore, our regional HQ, integrated and Hotels.
Virgin Atlantic, a long-term client of our digital completely into our offering in Asia.
Young & London agency, expanded its brief to Africa, Asia, India, Rubicam India innovated its agency model with a unified the Middle East, Australia and the Caribbean: Young & offering and new strategic tools.
Rubicam North America completed the global coverage by In Australia New Zealand, a major infusion of talent is winning the account for its region.
We also saw the return revitalizing the group.
Russel Howcroft was named national of Pirelli globally through our Milan agency.
CEO of George Patterson Young & Rubicam Australia.
In the two years since Tony Granger joined as global chief Globally-acclaimed planner Jon Steel was named chief creative officer, our ranking as a creative global network has strategy officer and vice chairman of George Patterson gone up by five places in the Gunn Report.
Our Melbourne Young & Rubicam Australia.
George Patterson Young & agency was cited by Gunn for having the No.
2 Most Awarded Rubicam Melbourne was the only Australian agency to spot in the world.
Our Tel Aviv agency was the No.
2 media make the Top 50 in the Gunn Report, coming in at No.
Work everywhere reflects our improved One of the most profound changes with implications global creative network and our expanded creative palette.
For across the agency has been the partnership with VML.
LG, we created a cause-related integrated campaign from TV to VMLs extraordinary offering and unparalleled digital apps, Give It A Ponder, that encourages youth to think before intelligence has been a major force in our aggressive they text and it was an overnight, cultural phenomenon.
