How were doing Agency networks Bates 141 Report by Jeffrey Yu right Chairman For the last three years at Bates 141, we have marshalled our philosophy and operations around understanding, harnessing and creating Change for our clients across Asia.
While 2009 was a challenging year, it was this singular focus that kept us strong commercially and attitudinally and saw us grow across nearly all dimensions.
2009 was our greatest year yet of delivering change for our clients.
We helped Chengdu City rebuild its image as Chinas most liveable city after the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan province in 2008.
The campaign won Gold at the China Effies.
We partnered with Shanghai General Motors for the 12th consecutive year, helping grow Buick to be the top-selling brand for GM.
We launched 141 Design, a specialist unit based in We helped Virgin Mobile establish the first true youth Kolkata working on a range of clients including Coca-Cola, brand in India and, in the process, won many awards Dabur and Fortune.
We also expanded our digital network, including Silver at the Asian Marketing Effectiveness 141 Digital, to five hubs across Asia.
Awards and the India Effies, as well as Bronze at the We expanded our footprint, opening an office in Dhaka, prestigious global Jay Chiat awards.
This is a very exciting and untapped market In Singapore, we created a social marketing campaign for of 160 million consumers and, together with 141 Sercon, the National Council against Problem Gambling, Know the we extended our services to some of our clients who have Line, targeting social gamblers who cross the line into habit.
entered the market including Marico, Coca-Cola, Nokia In Taiwan, we were ranked No.
1 by Campaign Brief and and Sun Microsystems.
seven people in our creative department made the top talent We continued our momentum on corporate and social list, led by our Taiwan ECD Richard Yu.
We were also the responsibility.
Our ChangeRally initiative helped our people most-awarded agency in Greater China, according to the to deliver change for special causes in Asia and can help 16th Chinese Times Advertising Awards.
clients see the bigger picture of giving back to society.
To complement our work and growth, we kept thought With funds donated by employees of Bates 141 and leadership on the top of the agenda.
Our A-Z Dictionary of Ogilvy China, we rebuilt the Hong Qi Cun Red Flag Change picked up the Grand Prix at WPPs Atticus Awards.
Elementary School, which had been devastated by the Our ChangeBites fueled many new client solutions with Sichuan earthquake.
When The Philippines was struck by specific discovery work for key markets and categories.
a series of typhoons and storms that killed more than 250 Our blog, Changing Asias, has also been ranked in the top people and displaced thousands more, all our offices stepped 25 by Advertising Age China.
up to help the charities we are aligned with.
In Cambodia, 2009 was a terrific year for new business.
Much of this we worked with a group of children at the Sunrise came from our existing clients, including Sony, HSBC and Orphanage to create a film to explain the plight of Rmy Martin.
New clients included Heineken in Hong Kong, Cambodian families.
Pizza Hut, Singapore Expo, Sina, F&N, Nissan, LiNing, It is good to see that this energy and action throughout Vitalon, TVS Motors and Dabur.
2009 is being noticed across the marketplace.
We recently We added new creative talent including Kenny Choo, scored a seven out of 10 in the industryand clienta multi-award winner and China expert.
We appointed recognized Media Asia Agency Rankings Report for 2009. technology experts Soonkeat Loo and Kyle Ho and, on the We took joint second place out of the WPP advertising business side, we appointed Barry Leung as regional director agencies and were sixth overall for all agencies in the Asia to build a strong, customized integrated agency offering and region.
All this great work by our people helps position us grow the activation business across China.
In Indonesia, we for an even stronger 2010. welcomed CEO Shubo Sarkar.
To generate value for our clients in times of recession and change, we enhanced our proprietary ChangeDay workshops and conducted ChangeDays for HSBC, Avon, Darbur, Max Bupa, Bank of Communications, Sina, F&N, Dell, PCCC and SGM.
