How were doing Agency networks during a recessionary environment, but ended well due to strengthening our culture and talent, while maintaining Bravos superior performance.
Whereas revenue was down a solid client base during the tough economic climate.
By slightly, operating profits and margins enjoyed double-digit keeping clients and staff motivated in 2009, Cohn & Wolfe improvements versus 2008.
3 in entered 2010 with a dedicated team and committed clients, Advertising Ages Hispanic Agency rankings for 2009. both existing and new.
We knew 2009 would be challenging, but Bravos enhanced capabilities and its ability to clearly drive incremental growth for our clients during these tough Robinson Lerer & Montgomery times proved noteworthy.
A network model built on client centricity, superior talent, and operational efficiency is paying Report by Linda Gosden Robinson big dividends with client satisfaction and superior creative Chairman work.
Relationships and revenues with Bravos top 10 clients grew and clients satisfaction survey data from the last two Robinson Lerer & Montgomery RLM, a New York-based years continues to over-index positively.
One disappointing strategic communications firm, serves the directors and senior factor was the near-dormant level of category new business management of companies in every major industry on a broad opportunities in available business sectors that stifled top-line range of ongoing assignments and special situations.
In a difficult environment, RLM reported strong results, Superior talent continues to augment Bravos capabilities: driven primarily by continuing corporate communications new managing directors were added in our New York assignments for major financial institutions, assisting them Chris Campos and San Francisco Melissa Lammers as they navigate the unprecedented upheaval in their offices.
Additionally, digital and creative talent continues industry.
In addition, the firm continued to provide ongoing to drive Bravos transformation.
and project-related corporate communications and strategic Bravo is now leading and driving business strategies: marketing services to numerous clients in various other we are truly helping our clients leverage and profit from industries.
Such work encompassed crisis management, the Hispanic market.
By taking a bold stance on new corporate positioning, litigation support, regulatory issues opportunities, creative work and performance accountability, and financial transactions, among other matters.
clients are recognizing Bravo as a real strategic leader and business differentiator.
With the 2010 US Census under way, we expect further validation of the attractiveness of the Hispanic sector as a critical demographic that is ripe for business development.
2010 has started well, with Bravo being named Pfizers multicultural agency of record and strong top-line growth projected for the agency.
Cohn & Wolfe full report on page 63 Report by Donna Imperato Chief executive officer Strengthening the agency and setting us up for future growth were Cohn & Wolfes key goals for 2009.
It was our first full year following the merger with GCI which doubled our business and our talent base.
And we succeeded in WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 45
