How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill & Knowlton Report by Paul Taaffe right Chairman and chief executive officer Hill & Knowlton met the economic challenges of 2009 by being successful in new business wins, by creating new services and by further diversifying into new emerging markets.
With operations in over 40 countries, H&K is now the largest global PR agency, according to the PRWeek Agency Report Card for 2009.
The continued extension of our geographic footprint, especially in many of the fasterdeveloping economies, has supported continuing growth in trans-national assignments.
These now represent 60% of total revenue and continue to be a source of competitive differentiation.
Operations were expanded in developing markets with a fifth office added in China, the addition of five IPAN Hill & Knowlton offices in India, a move into East Africa in a joint venture with Scangroup and the completion of majority ownership in Poland.
Major new business wins were in healthcare, clean technologies and energy with the total value of wins for 2009 being the same as 2008, a record year.
The main area of client growth was in consumer marketing, especially mass market and budget brands where the growing influence of social media led to an increase in marketing spend being allocated to public relations.
Corporate reputation, crisis counsel and issues management also were strong for H&K.
For the eighth time, H&K Canada was named one be driving this debate around the world.
Other marketing of Canadas Top 100 Employers by Mediacorp, and for initiatives included participation in the first-ever Cannes the third consecutive year, it was recognized by the Great Lions awards for PR, the second Marketing Group of Place to Work Institute Canada as one of the Best China event and a partnership with The CMO Club Workplaces in Canada.
H&K Middle East scooped five assisting top chief marketing officers.
The economic pressures facing our many clients have led to an immediate focus in helping them through reputational and brand challenges.
However, economic uncertainty and The main area of client growth the prospect of recovery also is creating new kinds of demand.
Further diversification of client services and solutions is a very was in consumer marketing, real opportunity for H&K in the short term.
especially mass market and budget brands where the growing influence of social media led to an increase in marketing spend being allocated to public relations H&K remained committed to its own sustainability manifesto celebrating Green Day a global day of environmental action.
H&K was a sponsor of the UN Conference on Climate Change in Copenhagen COP 15 enabling it to better understand the drivers of this debate and connect clients directly with the influencers who will 62 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
