How were doing Public relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe Eli Lilly, Folgers, Axa Insurance, Panasonic and many more.
And we grew organically with existing clients Merck, Report by Donna Imperato below Colgate-Palmolive, JM Smucker and Boehringer Ingelheim.
Chief executive officer Digital was a significant revenue driver in 2009 and will continue to be a major growth area for Cohn & Wolfe.
Strengthening the agency and setting us up for future growth ExxonMobil tapped us for their first ever online monitoring were Cohn & Wolfes key goals for 2009.
It was our first and response effort.
Our initial digital program for full year following the merger with GCI which doubled MasterCards B2B work was so successful we were asked our business and our talent base.
And we succeeded in to handle the social media roll-out of the classic Priceless strengthening our culture and talent, while maintaining campaign and other consumer-facing programs.
We helped a solid client base during the tough economic climate.
By leading pharmaceutical companies, including Genentech, keeping clients and staff motivated in 2009, Cohn & Wolfe GlaxoSmithKline, Lilly, Merck and Roche establish their entered 2010 with a dedicated team and committed clients, strategic digital frameworks and internal standard operating both existing and new.
It was a great year for new business.
procedures and continue to counsel many of our clients on We prevailed in many of the industrys most coveted regulatory issues related to the digital landscape.
We also competitions, adding three new clients from the Fortune 15 conducted more than 40 customized Digital Immersions including the top two Walmart and ExxonMobil and for clients across all sectors, industries and audiences.
Walmart, in particular, was Branding continues to be a core strength at Cohn & a game-changing win for our US region in terms of revenue.
Wolfe where our craft is public relations but our business We also added McKesson, MasterCard, AstraZeneca, Heinz, is brand marketing.
While the tools of PR are changing, the fundamentals of building strong brands are more important than ever.
For years Cohn & Wolfe has been one of the few PR agencies with a dedicated Brand Planning and Evaluation team.
In 2009, we invested in and expanded that team under the leadership of a newly appointed chief branding officer.
The position will oversee brand planning, consumer insights, research and analysis and help our clients across all key practices.
Branding continues to be a core strength at Cohn & Wolfe where our craft is public relations but our business is brand marketing Cohn & Wolfe also celebrated dozens of awards from around the world for our creativity and for our employee satisfaction.
We were one of only five global agencies to be named Best Agency To Work For in The Holmes Reports prestigious annual Report Card, a recognition weve achieved for five years in a row.
Our strong culture has helped us attract great talent, including one of the industrys top digital experts to head up our digital practice globally.
We also focused heavily on thought leadership to help clients make better business decisions.
Our Financial Confidence Survey gauged the impact of the financial crisis on consumer confidence and led to many new business leads.
Our annual Green Brands study expanded to seven countries and helped us counsel clients on the role and impact of green initiatives within their overall business strategy.
