How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group We welcomed two new leaders to our group: Lois Jacobs, CEO of Fitch and Robert fide Groot, CEO of VBAT.
Report by Craig Branigan below Both CEOs come with invaluable experience and leadership Chairman and chief executive officer skills, and have added significantly to the management capability of the B to D Group.
PeclersParis formerly part 2009 was a year of mixed fortunes for the Branding of the Fitch group started reporting to B to D in late 2009. to Design B to D Group.
Due to the severe economic Despite the difficult year, our companies distinguished downturn, client retrenchment and delays in new business themselves as industry leaders, winning several high-profile led to limited growth across most of our companies, with awards.
We improved our performance at Cannes, winning the exception of The Partners and Addison which showed five Design Lion awards in the nascent design category.
In addition, the networks global The Brand Union won Marketing magazines Design Agency footprint made them vulnerable to market volatility of the Year, The Partners was awarded the No.
1 position in developing markets in the Middle East and Asia.
in Design Weeks Creative Survey, and Fitch won three Nevertheless, Landor and Lambie-Nairn held their American Graphic Design awards.
This year, more than ever, leveraging the combined strength of the group reaped rewards, through gains in Addison operational efficiencies, shared resources in talent and technology and access to insights on effective management In a market where some of its immediate competitors folded during a downturn.
or downsized considerably last year, Addison continued to deliver a strong performance.
The company reaffirmed its position as the premier corporate communications agency in Europe, with more FTSE 100 and Euro100 clients than any other competitor.
New European clients include Gemalto and TNT in the Netherlands, Givaudan in Switzerland and UPM in Finland.
Addison also continued to build its robust digital offer, with IR Magazine rating WPPs online Annual Report No.
Addison was also awarded nine international LACP awards and helped WPP win the prestigious Building Public Trust Award for its corporate reporting.
The Brand Union full report on page 67 As expected, and in common with our industry, 2009 proved to be a challenging year for The Brand Union.
The company wrestled with two specific issues: a reduction in corporateand M&A-led assignments off the back of the travails of the global financial market and the erosion of client activity in the emerging markets both of which provided major impetus for the companys growth trajectory during the previous three years.
However, The Brand Union responded positively to these challenges, successfully stabilising our business and adapting its offer and services to the new trading environment.
As a result, the agency had a stronger second half in 2009 and outperformed many of its competitors.
