How were doing letter to share owners valuations in search, for example, are still prohibitive, despite Putter as WPPs worldwide creative director.
Under Johns the financial crisis.
Other opportunities will be sought to guidance, gratifying and discernible progress continues.
2009 saw the third annual WPPED Cream awards, Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist expertise our internal award scheme for outstanding work across in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive and to the Group.
Your Company also amassed the second identify new high-growth areas.
largest points tally at the 2009 advertising and marketing services festival in Cannes for the second year in a row and narrowed the gap to first place please refer to our website, Creativity remains paramount www.
com, for detailed, accurate calculations.
At the same time we are committed to achieving all these It seems entirely right that we should open this section objectives as a significantly responsible corporate citizen of with a tribute to Robyn Putter, a towering creative the world at large and in the communities in which we operate.
6 figure in our industry who sadly died at a young age As a parent company, we continue to develop practical on 1 March 2010. principles and policies for our companies charitable First in his own South African agency, then for more giving and services to the environment, education, the than 30 years with Ogilvy & Mather and latterly as creative arts and healthcare based on best practice guidelines.
head at WPP, Robyn practised, preached and as a person We conservatively calculate that the WPP organisation epitomised all that is most admirable in the creative function.
contributed an estimated 14.9 million worth of time, skills, Endlessly inventive himself, his benign influence reached materials and money to social and community causes in every part of Ogilvy and ultimately the whole Group.
A summary of the Groups approach to corporate principled as he was creative, he set the highest of standards responsibility can be found on pages 122 to 131.
Doing good and inspired thousands around the world to meet them.
is not altruism or charity, it is good business, when like His influence, happily, is with us still.
us you are focused on long-term total share owner return.
Robyn was centrally important to us because he Please also see our annual and unique in our industry represented, championed and endlessly encouraged the Corporate Responsibility Report on the work our clients improvement in the quality of creative work throughout the and our people do in these increasingly important areas.
Group which continues to be our sixth objective.
Despite the growing importance of co-ordinated communications and price effectiveness, the quality of the work remains and Future challenges will remain paramount.
If you drew a graph plotting creative awards as a proxy for creativity against margins for any A colossal amount remains to be done challenging our group of agencies, there would be a very strong correlation.
It seems certain that once these The more awards, the stronger the margins.
The clients objectives are achieved, they will be replaced by new ones.
procurement department fades into the background when As companies grow in size, most chairmen and CEOs the work is strong.
Of the three things we do strategic become concerned that their organisations may become thinking, creative execution and co-ordination creative flabby, slow to respond, bureaucratic and sclerotic.
Any execution is undoubtedly the most important, and that sensible business leader aggressively resists this phenomenon: means creativity in its broadest sense.
we all seek the benefits of size and scale without sacrificing Clients look for creative thinking and output not just the suppleness and energy of a smaller firm.
And, for the first from advertising agencies, public relations and design time, new technologies now make this possible on a global companies, but also from our media companies and our platform.
WPP wants the scale and resources of the largest research companies.
Millward Brown remains arguably one firm together with the heart and mind of a small one.
of our most creative brands.
Witness the BrandZ Top 100 Most Powerful Brands Study published annually with the Financial Times.
And finally... We intend to achieve this objective by stepping up our training and development programs: by recruiting the finest 2009 was a year when no sensible company took anything external talent: by celebrating and rewarding outstanding or anyone for granted.
Just because it had worked before, creative success tangibly and intangibly: by acquiring strong it didnt mean it would work again.
Just because a consumer creative companies: and by encouraging, monitoring and had been a brand loyalist for nine consecutive years, it didnt promoting our companies achievements in winning mean you should count on his or her custom for a 10th.
Everything needed re-examination: not for the sake of making In pursuing these aims, the Group now looks for aimless change: much more for the sake of making certain.
leadership to John OKeeffe, who in 2008 succeeded Robyn Though always uncomfortable, years when all accepted 28 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were doing letter to share owners practice is subjected to fierce scrutiny and challenge Forward-looking statements invariably turn out to be fruitful ones and 2009 was no In connection with the provisions of the exception.
The open-mindedness and good-humoured Private Securities litigation reform Act of resilience of WPP companies has been exemplary and their 1995 the reform Act, the Company may response full-blooded.
Their clients include forward-looking statements as are by far the best witnesses to this claim but the results defined in the reform Act in oral or written of creative awards, in all disciplines and in all parts of the public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
these forward-looking world, confirm a remarkable advance, over both previous statements may include, among other years and our principal competitors.
things, plans, objectives, projections and All too easily, such an admirable response to tough times anticipated future economic performance tends to get fide-humanised it gets disguised in amalgamated based on assumptions and the like that are figures and broad generalities.
So we would like to close this subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ report by reminding all our audiences of a permanent truth materially from those discussed in the of our business.
It is a business that is wholly dependent forward-looking statements.
Important on the intelligence, the talent, the integrity and the factors which may cause actual results determination of each individual member of each of our to differ include but are not limited to: the companies.
Never has that been more apparent or more unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client welcome than in 2009.
We thank and salute them all.
advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to Philip Lader changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of Chairman its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the uK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major Sir Martin Sorrell markets which varies depending on, Group chief executive among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, Paul Richardson you should consider the risks described Group finance director under the caption Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 117 and 118, which this letter to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part could also cause actual results to differ from of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on forward-looking information.
In light of these pages 109 to 121. and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
