How were rewarded Compensation Committee report on behalf of the Board Dear share owner conomic pressures on WPP and on marketing services companies in general did not abate during 2009 and are reflected in reduced levels of compensation E throughout the Group.
These circumstances reinforced the importance of the committees work to ensure that compensation policies strike a fair balance between peoples compensation and long-term share owner interests and enable the Company to attract, retain, and motivate the best talent in the business.
2009 highlights The committees work during 2009 included: a review of the total compensation packages of the Groups most senior executives relative to marketplace benchmarks to ensure competitiveness: the approval of all stock plan awards including grants under LEAP III, Performance Share Awards PSAs, Executive Share Awards ESAs and the Leaders and Partners programs : the approval of all incentive payments, payable in cash or in shares, for senior executives throughout the Group and setting appropriate targets for the Group chief executive and other executive directors: finalising the design of LEAP III after consultation with share owners, and securing approval of the plan at the General Meeting in June 2009: and consideration of the potential inclusion of clawback provisions in the Companys share incentive plans.
Details of all elements of compensation and any changes made to them are found in the following pages.
To summarise, the key decisions and changes to compensation during the year were as follows: proposals for LEAP III were approved by share owners at the General Meeting in June 2009.
LEAP III is similar to the previous LEAP plans but includes i weighting of the peer group based on market capitalisation and ii a feature under which participants may be invited to purchase investment options as well as investment shares at the discretion of the Compensation Committee : the first awards under LEAP III were granted during the year.
Given the general economic conditions, the committee limited the value of the 2009 award to the Group chief executive to 80% of the maximum possible in future years: salary increases throughout the Group were given only in exceptional circumstances and no increases were approved for the chairman, the Group chief executive or other executive directors.
The fees of non-executive directors also remained unchanged: and bonuses in respect of 2009 performance were down for the Group as a whole and for executive directors.
In comparison to 2008 when bonus awards were lower than in 2007, bonus awards were down 52.5% for the chief executive, 31.4% for the Group finance director, and 31.8% for the Group strategy director.
A larger percentage than usual of reduced executive bonuses was awarded in shares with a vesting period of three years rather than two years, based on the committees view that this reflected a better alignment with long-term share owner interests following a challenging year.
As always, I would like to thank my fellow committee members, Philip Lader and Esther Dyson, and also Bud Morten, the former chairman of the committee, for their continued support.
The committees thanks also go to Marie Capes the Company Secretary, Mark Linaugh the chief talent officer and Adrian Jackson the director of compensation and benefits.
Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee 16 April 2010 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 133 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Composition of the Compensation Committee The link between compensation and business objectives During 2009, the Compensation Committee comprised the following: WPP competes on the basis of its intellectual capital.
This Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : intellectual capital is created entirely by its people, and the Esther Dyson: and committee endeavours to strike the right balance of fairness Philip Lader.
for both employees and share owners.
No member of the committee has any personal financial For this reason, the design of all executive compensation interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page 143 at WPP is governed by three guiding principles: in the matters to be decided by the committee, potential the need to be competitive: conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or being performance-driven: and day-to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
alignment with share owner interests.
The terms of reference for the Compensation Committee These three principles are themselves derived from both are available on the Companys website and will be on our mission statement see page 12 and our six business display at the AGM, as set out in the Notice of AGM.
The Compensation Committee regularly reviews fixed and variable compensation against appropriate benchmarks Advisors to the Compensation Committee both internal and external to the organisation.
When making decisions on executive compensation, the committee is briefed The Compensation Committee regularly consults with Group on the treatment of the broader population.
This includes, executives, particularly the Group chief executive who is not for example, the consideration of budgeted salary increases present when matters relating to his own compensation or across the organisation when determining executive salary contracts are discussed and decided, the chief talent officer increases.
In addition, the committee approves the design of and the director of compensation and benefits.
The latter two incentive plans as well as reviewing all the awards made individuals provide a perspective on information provided to under those incentive plans.
the committee and are a conduit for requests for information The chart below shows the proportion of total and analysis from the Companys external advisors.
Advice remuneration which is variable due to the linkage to was received from Hammonds LLP on legal, tax and performance compared to fixed remuneration.
governance issues relating to compensation and benefits.
Split between xed and variable compensation % Hammonds LLP provides legal advice on a range of matters to the Group.
During the year the committee also received Sir Martin Sorrell advice from Towers Perrin now Towers Watson, the Committees appointed compensation advisors, who did not Paul Richardson provide any other material services to the Group.
The Compensation Committee receives advice on Mark Read the following: analysis of competitive compensation practices and Fixed Variable 0 20 40 60 80 100 determination of competitive positioning: base salary and fee levels: annual and long-term incentive plans and awards WPP is committed to aligning executive performance including awards made under LEAP III: and reward with share owner interests.
From a compensation the policy relating to WPP share ownership by employees: perspective, this is encouraged in a number of ways: pensions and executive benefits: TSR has been chosen as the performance measure for changes in accounting, taxation, legal and regulatory both Renewed LEAP and LEAP III as it represents the best practices: and objective measure of the success of the Company: governance issues relating to compensation and the role share ownership is encouraged for the WPP Leaders of the Compensation Committee.
approximately the top 200 executives, all of whom have ownership goals of 40,000 ordinary shares: all employees are given a share focus through the use of the Worldwide Ownership Plan: and the majority of the compensation package of executive directors is paid in the form of shares the value of ESAs and the expected value of awards under both Renewed LEAP and LEAP III.
134 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Split between cash and share-based compensation % Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Sir Martin Sorrell The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration Paul Richardson currently comprise the following: base salaries and fees fixed : Mark Read short-term incentives paid both in cash payable immediately and shares which vest in the medium-term Cash Shares 0 20 40 60 80 100 of usually after two years variable : and long-term incentives paid in shares variable, and in The role of the Compensation Committee certain instances, subject to both co-investment and in improving risk management performance conditions.
Pension contributions, life assurance, health and The Compensation Committee is always conscious of ensuring disability, and other benefits are also provided.
that the decisions that it makes and the compensation systems Compensation packages for the senior people at WPP the Group has in place serve to improve the management of are normally reviewed every 24 months.
These reviews are risk in the Group.
In particular: undertaken within the context of: most Compensation Committee meetings are held within the current mix of fixed and variable compensation: 24 hours of Board meetings, at which the committee the performance of the relevant business unit: members are usually given a comprehensive briefing on issues pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group: and and risks facing each of the business units as well as the general market conditions.
Group as a whole: In determining suitable benchmarks the Compensation one of the single biggest areas of risk for WPP is attracting Committee looks at similar roles in competitor organisations and retaining key talent.
Incentive plans are consequently and, if appropriate, general industry data for organisations designed to be attractive in the marketplace and provide as of comparable size and complexity.
much retention value as possible such as paying part of annual incentives in shares that normally vest two years after grant Base salary and fees and having a five-year performance period for LEAP: and Current salary and fees Effective date clawback provisions are to be written into the key share Sir Martin Sorrell 1,000,000 1 Jan 2007 incentive plans i. e. those other than the all employee Paul richardson $830,000 and 100,000 1 Jul 2008 schemes to provide the Compensation Committee with Mark read 325,000 1 Jan 2009 the right to cancel or reduce unvested share awards should As reported last year, fees of 100,000 are paid to each of a participants action justify it.
the executive directors in respect of their directorships of WPP plc.
This was not an increase in compensation and in each case salary was reduced by 100,000 when the fees TSR performance were introduced.
Sir Martin Sorrells base salary was last increased on The Companys TSR for the period from 31 December 2004 1 January 2007.
It was due to be reviewed in November 2008 to April 2010 is shown on the graph below.
The FTSE 100 is with any change to be implemented from January 2009: the Index the Board considers most relevant for the purpose however, Sir Martin informed the Compensation Committee of comparison as WPP is a mid-ranking FTSE 100 company.
that an increase would not be appropriate in light of current WPP considers its key competitors to be Omnicom, business conditions.
His salary and directors fees therefore Interpublic and Publicis and it is the performance of these remained unchanged.
Similarly no increase to base salary companies with which the Companys own performance is was proposed for either Paul Richardson or Mark Read.
For that reason, values for those three companies are also displayed.
Retirement benefits Relative TSR Rebased to 31 December 2004 All pension benefits for the Companys executive directors 200 WPP are currently on a defined contribution basis and only the FTSE 100 aggregate of base salary and fees is pensionable under any 150 Omnicom Company retirement plan.
Details of pension contributions 100 Interpublic for the period under review in respect of executive directors Publicis are set out on page 139.
50 The form and level of Company-sponsored retirement 0 programs vary depending on historical practices and local 31.12.04 31.12.05 31.12.06 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.09 M easured on a common currency basis.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 135 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report market considerations.
The level of retirement benefits This resulted in the following bonus payments in respect is regularly considered when reviewing total executive of 2009, shown as a percentage of salary: remuneration levels.
Bonus percentage Bonus percentage paid in cash paid in shares ESA Short-term incentives Target Max Actual Target Max Actual Sir Martin Sorrell 100 200 57 67 100 38 Each year WPP sets challenging performance conditions for Paul richardson 80 120 48 100 133 60 each operating company.
Performance against these targets Mark read 50 75 36 67 100 48 determines the size, if any, of the incentive pool for that unit.
In aggregate, incentive payments in 2009 were down compared with 2008.
This trend was also reflected in the bonuses paid However, the Compensation Committee reapportioned to executive directors.
some of the cash into stock for Sir Martin Sorrell and Paul Individual targets both financial and strategic for the Richardson, and extended the vesting period to three years.
operating company CEOs are also set by WPP and in turn, The final distribution was therefore as follows: these CEOs set similar targets for their direct reports.
Payment is in the form of both cash bonuses and PSAs which vest a Bonus percentage Bonus percentage paid in cash paid in shares ESA further two years after grant.
Target Max Actual Target Max Actual In a similar way, the Compensation Committee sets Sir Martin Sorrell 100 200 41 67 100 55 objectives for Sir Martin Sorrell and the other executive Paul richardson 80 120 46 100 133 62 directors.
The extent to which these objectives are met will Mark read 50 75 36 67 100 48 determine the size of both the annual cash bonus STIP and the ESAs, the portion of the annual bonus paid in shares which normally vest a further two years after grant however, In some countries an opportunity exists to defer part of the 2009 award will vest three years after grant.
the annual bonus for four years in the form of WPP shares.
Consistent with previous years, for 2009 each executive At the end of the deferral period a 25% match is applied to director was measured in the three areas shown below: the original shares subject to continuous employment.
No Group financial objectives executive director participated in this plan in relation to the Examples of measures include margin improvement and bonus paid for 2009. operating profit growth.
Individual strategic objectives Long-term incentives Examples of measures include relative financial performance, advancing CSR strategy and improving back office synergies.
Following the policy review in 2008, the Compensation Key business achievements Committee, during 2009, continued to believe that the Examples of measures include improving creative reputation incentive plans remained appropriate in terms of grant levels, and developing digital strategy.
performance criteria and vesting schedules.
However, this Each of these three elements is equally weighted for cash years review will need to take into account more intense bonus purposes i. e. one third of the bonus is payable for competitive pressures, fuelled by the general economic the achievement of each objective.
Except for the Group recovery and competitors behaviour.
None of WPPs financial objectives, the exact measures differ by each incentive plans are pensionable and, other than stock individual executive director.
options, all awards will be satisfied out of WPP shares No changes were made in 2009 to the levels of short-term held in treasury or one of the Companys employee share incentive payouts that would be payable for achieving either ownership plans ESOPs.
After considering each of these areas and the respective Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan III LEAP III measures for each executive, the committee assessed the following levels of performance against target bonus payable At the General Meeting in June the Company obtained the in cash shown as a percentage of target bonus : approval of share owners for LEAP III and subsequently awards were made to 13 of the Groups key executives.
Group financial Individual strategic Key business Details of these awards can be found on page 141. objectives objectives achievements Under LEAP III, participants have to commit and retain Cash Cash Cash % of amount % of amount % of amount investments in WPP.
Such investments are in the form of target 000 target 000 target 000 WPP shares investment shares and, at the invitation of the Sir Martin Sorrell 0 0 100 333 71 236 Compensation Committee, also in the form of options over Paul richardson 0 0 105 176 75 126 WPP shares purchased from an independent third party Mark read 0 0 125 68 91 49 investment options.
Such investments provide participants 136 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were rewarded Compensation Committee report with the opportunity to earn additional WPP shares Restricted Stock Plan matching shares.
The number of matching shares that a participant can receive at the end of the investment Other than to satisfy awards under the short-term plans and performance period depends on the Companys TSR ESAs and PSAs, the principal use of the Restricted Stock performance measured over five years and compared Plan is for awards under the WPP Leaders and WPP Partners with a peer group weighted by market capitalisation.
These programs are used to further align the Following the end of a performance period, the interests of about 1,200 of our key executives with the Compensation Committee is required to perform a interests of share owners.
fairness review on the basis of which it may, in exceptional In both programs awards are made to participants that circumstances, decide to vary the number of matching shares vest three years after grant provided the participant is still that will vest.
This is because relative TSR may not always employed within the Group.
Some executives at the head reflect the true performance of the Company.
Factors the office participate in these programs but no awards are made committee considers in its fairness review of any awards to executive directors.
include, amongst others, various measures of the Groups financial performance such as growth in revenues and in Executive Stock Option Plan earnings per share and any evidence of distortions in the share price of either WPP or the peer group such as bid In order to attract or retain key talent it is sometimes necessary price premiums.
to make special grants of options.
Only one grant was made to a single individual in 2009: 15 grants were made in 2008.
Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan None of these grants were to executive directors.
However, Renewed LEAP the Compensation Committee is conscious that stock options remain a powerful motivator and, in certain circumstances, No further awards were made under Renewed LEAP and it might be necessary to grant to a broader population under no awards vested in 2009. the Executive Stock Option Plan.
The awards made in 2004 had a four-year performance period and vested in 2008.
Awards made between 2005 and Worldwide Ownership Plan 2008 all had five-year performance periods.
The 2005 award vested in March 2010 with a match of 2.50.
The remaining The Worldwide Ownership Plan is an all-employee plan that awards will, subject to satisfaction of performance makes annual grants of stock options to employees with conditions, vest between 2011 and 2013. two years of service who work in wholly owned subsidiaries.
As with LEAP III, the Compensation Committee is As at 31 December 2009, options under this plan had been required to perform a fairness review before any awards granted to approximately 84,500 employees over 38.4 can vest.
When performing this fairness review prior to million ordinary shares since March 1997.
Any executive vesting of the 2005 award there were two particular factors who participates in one of the other share plans described that the committee felt had a significant influence on the above does not receive grants under this plan.
results, namely: the existence of a bid premium in the ending share price of one of WPPs peer group companies Aegis : and Share incentive dilution for 2005 to 2009 the dramatic swings in currency, particularly the fall in the value of sterling towards the end of the performance period.
The share incentive dilution level, measured on a 10-year It should be noted that both these factors were also rolling basis, was below 5% at 16 April 2010.
It is intended present when the previous award vested in March 2008, that awards under LEAP III, Renewed LEAP, the ESAs, the however at that time sterling had appreciated sharply PSAs and the Restricted Stock Plan will all be satisfied with towards the end of that period.
On that occasion the purchased shares held either in the ESOPs or in treasury.
committee adjusted for both factors with the net result that the number of matching shares was reduced from 3.27 to Dilution % 2.60.
On this occasion the committee again adjusted for both factors with the net result that the number of matching 7.2 6.6 5.7 5.4 4.6 10 shares was increased from 1.64 to 2.50.
8 The committee discussed both these points and the 6 appropriate treatment of delisted companies which is 4 outlined on page 141 with the largest share owners and the 2 share owner advisory bodies before any decision was made.
