How were doing Agency networks Ogilvy Group work breaks new ground in many ways, building a digitallyenabled system of content which roots communication Ogilvy & Mather at the center and not at the periphery of the companys value system.
Report by Miles Young below Coca-Cola was our fastest-growing client in 2009, Chief executive officer awarding us multiple assignments, at the center and in markets around the world.
Our work for them is fresh and at the edge of cultural insight and expression.
In 2009 we appointed new leaders who are writing Ogilvys next chapter.
Tham Khai Meng moved from Singapore to our global headquarters in New York to take on the role of worldwide creative director: we share the same office.
Gloria Gibbons and Donna Tuths were appointed joint worldwide CEOs of Ogilvy Healthworld.
Chris Graves stepped into Marcia Silvermans role as CEO of Ogilvy Public Relations in January 2010, while Marcia Silverman took on the new role of chair.
PRWeek named Ogilvy PR as an agency to watch in 2010, citing that Chris Graves will lead the firm into a new era that can provide integrated programs for global clients who need them.
John Shaw and Colin Mitchell were named joint worldwide planning directors, and Tim Broadbent was appointed effectiveness director.
Marie Claire Barker was named chief talent officer.
John Seifert now runs Ogilvy North America.
Carla Hendra is heading up our new Global Strategy & Innovation Practice.
Gustavo Martinez relocated from Mexico to I subscribe to the Chinese view that crisis spells New York to be our first global new business director.
opportunity: and that when the going gets tough, What is gratifying is that none of these leaders is new to the tough get going.
They have continuity and carry on our culture, It put into relief the basic reason we are in business to even as we gain from their new energy and insight.
produce superb work for our clients which is outstandingly People are the only important asset in this industry.
effective great work that works.
Sometimes, years of And now, more than ever, our business requires people who growth dull the edges of such simplicity.
But driven by really understand integration, who get the new paradigms this mantra, we spent the year laying the groundwork of content that are emerging, and who have experience in for a formidable bounce back.
Fortunately, as a 360 degree agency, Despite all the circumstances, we showed that we were we have a very high share of these people.
But in the past a feisty business with winning ways.
In this industry there year we managed to attract and hire additional world-class was just one large global pitch in 2009, for UPS.
We won senior talent in management, in creative, in digital and in this business in September, the culmination of months strategic planning in particular who will help us drive the of effort.
We are proud to have a brand like UPS, with business forward.
a wonderful heritage and an ambitious future, join our Around the world, we approached the recession portfolio of clients.
proactively by responding with targeted new offerings.
One of the reasons for this success is that our 360 Launched in 2008, our Recession Marketing Practice business model offering deep integration at a strategic continued to give practical counsel to our clients on how level was able to leverage creative, planning, digital, best to cope as the recession gathered force in 2009, and analytical, and executional assets in a way which helped them plan for recovery: and its publications have been addressed the deeper business problem, not just a praised for establishing industry leadership in this area.
By the end of the year our We launched OgilvyEarth, a first-of-its-kind global North American business triumphed in two other major sustainability practice.
It is driven by an outstanding pitches for CDW and Citizens Bank.
In each case, the team from around the world, representing advertising, same lessons applied.
public relations, interactive, activation, entertainment Two other clients deserve special mention in 2009.
IBM, and other of our disciplines.
It has helped companies such thanks to its own visionary leadership, provided the platform as BP, Coca-Cola, DuPont, Qantas and Tetra Pak develop for the acclaimed Smarter Planet program.
This body of a vision of sustainability that drives business results.
32 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were doing Agency networks Our Global Strategy & Innovation Practice, launched of the Year at Spikes Asia.
Marketing magazine named in January 2010, was created specifically to offer clients Ogilvy & Mather Singapore Creative Agency of the Year multidisciplinary strategic services that combine creativity and bestowed quadruplet honors to Ogilvy Hong Kong as with rigorous effectiveness.
We seek to raise our client Creative Agency of the Year, Digital Agency of the Year, engagement beyond just producing solutions, to the level Direct Marketing Agency of the Year and PR Agency of diagnosing and solving business problems.
We launched a global data practice, headed by Dimitri In Latin America, our offices in Mexico, Honduras, Maex, which is driving our ambition in data.
This is now Puerto Rico and Panama were singled out as Agency of one of our fastest-growing specialties.
Our Digital Labs the Year by key industry organizations in their countries.
around the world continue to create breakthrough campaigns At the Eurobest Festival, Ogilvy & Mather Paris was and applications in all areas of digital.
From a stealth named European Agency of the Year.
OgilvyOne Portugal mobile phone application audible only to people under was given the same honor at the 2009 SAPO Awards, 25 to help Fanta engage its teenage customer base, to using Portugals specialist digital communications awards festival.
augmented reality to help Lenovo sells laptops to Chinese Ogilvy Germany was named Agency of the Year by German college students, to hosting an Outernet conference that DDP dialogue marketing award show for the fourth brought together the foremost experts in digital out-of-home consecutive year.
and point-of-sale technology, we are helping clients stay at AdFocus named Ogilvy Johannesburg 2009 Advertising the leading edge of digital technology.
Agency of the Year, and Ogilvy Africa African Agency All of this depends, of course, on creativity.
After all, Network of the Year.
Ogilvy Johannesburg was also named David Ogilvy founded this business as a creative business, first and foremost.
In 2009, with a full-time worldwide creative director, we have made good progress.
As I look to 2010 and indeed to the One very noticeable example was the high profile we next decade, I am full of confidence gained through our 360 degree campaign to promote the United Nations Copenhagen climate change summit in December 2009.
Hopenhagen made an impact not just Gauteng Agency of the Year at the 2009 AdReview Awards.
there, but with our peers in the global creative community.
OgilvyOne Worldwide was named Direct Agency of the Year for 2009 by BtoB magazine.
Ogilvy Public Relations was named Large Agency of the Year at the PRNews We seek to raise our client Platinum PR Awards and Asia Pacific Network of the Year by the Asia Pacific PR Awards.
engagement beyond just producing It is perhaps not surprising that one of our success stories solutions, to the level of diagnosing in 2009 was RedWorks.
In creating this as a production and solving business problems dependent we have arrived at a recipe which clients find very compelling.
Utilizing low-cost hubs in locations like Bangladesh, Argentina and Slovakia, as well as other WPP When you do great work, the industry notices and offerings, RedWorks has delivered significant cost savings responds.
Our creative teams captured a major share of to many of them.
the worlds awards for creative excellence and marketing It provides all the cost benefits of a decoupled solution effectiveness: 40 London International Awards: 31 Cannes with the added value of a brand-centric approach.
In other Lions: 19 Clios: 16 DMA Echoes: seven One Show Pencils: words, decouple for cost savings, but re-couple for quality and 71 Effies for our work in multiple countries as diverse assurance.
We have also developed RedWorks as a projectas Australia, Dubai, Ecuador, France, Guatemala, based, creative offering that supports Ogilvy creative teams Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, as well as providing a small bucket shop creative offer for Poland, Ukraine, the US, Uruguay, Singapore, Spain and non-Ogilvy clients.
My colleagues will detail the performance of the Our leadership in many of the worlds developing and disciplines for which they are responsible below.
Meanwhile, fast-growing markets is corroborated by the various industry as I look to 2010 and indeed to the next decade, I am full of analysts in these regions.
Ogilvy & Mather Asia Pacific was confidence.
Not only do we have all the hard assets, from our the most-awarded agency in the region, according to the  expertise to our ownership of the high first-ever Asia Pacific Gunn Report.
Ogilvy India was voted ground of branding: from our proven tool-kits to a legion of the No.
1 creative agency in the region by Brand Equity Ad innovations: but our soft assets the Ogilvy culture which Agency Reckoner and named Agency of the Year at the India makes us a global family, demonstrably unique in touch and Effie Awards.
Ogilvy & Mather Thailand was named Agency feel are a winning recipe.
