How were rewarded About share ownership Executive remuneration policy is set by WPPs Compensation WPP is quoted on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ Committee and is governed by three guiding principles: in New York.
Competitiveness Analysis of shareholdings Performance Issued share capital as at 31 December 2009: 1,256,491,314 Alignment with share owner interests ordinary shares owned by 12,593 share owners.
The committees work during 2009 included: Share owners by geography % a review of the total compensation packages of the Groups most senior executives relative to marketplace UK 40 benchmarks to ensure competitiveness: US 33 the approval of all stock plan awards including grants Asia Pacic, Latin America, under LEAP III, Performance Share Awards PSAs, Africa & Middle East, Canada and Continental Europe 27 Executive Share Awards ESAs and the Leaders and Partners programs : the approval of all incentive payments, payable in cash or in shares, for senior executives throughout the Group and Share owners by type % setting appropriate targets for the Group chief executive and other executive directors: Institutional investors 95 finalising the design of LEAP III after consultation with Employees 3 share owners, and securing approval of the plan at the Other individuals 2 General Meeting in June 2009: and consideration of the potential inclusion of clawback provisions in the Companys share incentive plans.
Our directors remuneration and interests are set out on pages 139 to 143.
A full report from the Compensation Committee starts on page 133.
Substantial share ownership As at 16 April 2010, the Company is aware of the following interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Blackrock Inc. 5.10% AXA S. A.
4.95% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 4.84% legal & General 3.99% The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the respective combined holdings of those entities and to interests associated with them.
The Company has not been notified of any other holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Share owner relations WPP has a continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts, supplying a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy and performance.
com, provides current and historical financial information including trading statements, news releases and presentations.
More information relating to share ownership can be found on pages 185 to 188.
