What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity f Government debt as % of GDP 2007-14 as President Obama faces mid-term elections in 2010, the Percentage point increase UKs Prime Minister Brown goes to the polls in May 2010 and Germanys Chancellor Merkel faces a crucial state Japan 246 election at the same time.
It would be very unpopular Britain 98 politically to wear the hair shirt by increasing unemployment.
US 108 Much easier to inflate our way out of it, reducing the real France 96 value of debt and increasing long-term interest rates.
It is Germany 89 doubtful, however, that the redistributive and healthcare policies of the new US president will be effective to deal with Italy 129 the debt burden and, in any event, may have harmful effects Canada 69 on entrepreneurial motivation and corporate activity or 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 eventually be rejected at the ballot box.
If this scenario plays Source: IMF out, the high-saving countries Brazil, Russia getting its act f Forecast.
together again as oil prices rise, India, China and even Japan will benefit and pull further away from the West.
Rates of growth in US government spending were back to Inflation, of course, as long as it is controlled, is not bad where they were 35 years ago at the height of the Vietnam for our clients or us.
By giving our clients pricing power, War.
In 2005, the tragedy of Katrina, and the continuing branding and innovation become even more important, as demands of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq continued long as private label does not become too dominant.
Another to fuel the government spending spree.
In 2006, the latter consequence of massive government stimulus, effectively state conflict continued the acceleration in government spending.
directed capitalism akin to the Chinese model is government It is no accident that governments in many countries are the as a client.
Country branding, foreign direct investment, largest advertising spenders: ministries use marketing to tourism, export stimulation, reinforcement of government reinforce their policies and build electoral popularity.
Perhaps policy are all examples of marketing needs at government for political reasons, former President Bush failed to deal level witness GroupMs win of the COIs media buying with the twin fiscal and trade deficits.
He chose not to raise in the UK recently.
The British government is currently the taxes and Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke did not countrys largest media spender but maybe not for long.
hike interest rates even further.
All this was thrown into sharp relief by the sub-prime, insurance monoline, private equity and house price crises Mergers are still with us that started to hit hard in the third quarter of 2007.
Everyone but Goldman Sachs seemed caught unawares The credit crisis may have slowed activity, but mergers and, for a short time, even the masters of the universe were.
NewsCorp took Dow Jones, Google took Economic policy is in sharp reverse, with massive injections DoubleClick, Microsoft snapped up aQuantive, Yahoo!
took of liquidity and significant lowering of interest rates being Right Media, Microsoft took Yahoo!, Pfizer took Wyeth, the cornerstones of the new economics, as banks continued Merck took Schering-Plough, InBev took Anheuser-Busch, to refuse to lend to one another and third parties.
Vodafone went for Hutchison Essar, Danone took Royal Given the massive Keynesian fiscal stimulus of around Numico, Bank of America took Merrill Lynch, Carphone $13 trillion and counting being pumped into the worlds Warehouse linked with Best Buy, Thomson Corp merged economy through government spending and guarantees, with Reuters, Kraft ate Cadbury.
there was little doubt that the post-Lehman difficulties would Consolidation among media owners also continues be overcome in the short term.
After all, the US and UK unabated.
NewsCorp takes and disposes of DirecTV, have even resorted to quantitative easing or printing money.
Comcast tried to take Disney and takes NBC.
Legislation has But what happens in the long term?
There seem to be two favoured more consolidation in the US and the UK, although possible routes.
First, the hair shirt route of reducing recent events and changes in administrations may alter that.
government deficits by cutting state spending and increasing Even in Brazil, which has been fiercely protectionist, you can taxes, thus increasing unemployment and encouraging a buy 30% of Globo or Editora Abril.
And in Australia, higher propensity to save.
All very painful stuff as we saw on recently introduced legislation relaxing media ownership a smaller scale in the 1970s and 1980s.
The three-day week rules triggered a media asset bidding frenzy.
Germany allows and rubbish piling up in the streets is the nearest we have foreign ownership of TV: Italy concentrates further through been to the current crisis since the Great Depression.
In Spain, the government allows a 25% Or, which seems more likely, we inflate our way out long share of the free-to-air market and the Polanco family sells term.
It will be difficult for government or even central banks a television stake to Berlusconis Mediaset and Antenna 3 to know when to withdraw the current support, particularly and La Sexta discuss a merger.
Clients and media owners are WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 97
