What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity as Carat, Media Planning Group, CIA and Western In addition, many other group pitches have taken place International, which grew organically and by acquisition.
particularly in pharmaceuticals, and Public Relations & The same pattern was seen among packaging, market Public Affairs that have been under the trade papers radar.
research, merchandising, PR and other specialist skills.
The only issue preventing this from being a trend is whether Many such companies have now been re-absorbed into clients can be convinced of the benefits.
the super-agencies, but in an inter-dependent or autonomous The middle of the road is becoming an increasingly form.
Strong media or marketing services specialists do difficult place to be, with traffic coming from both directions.
not like, understandably, to be subsumed under advertising Agencies excluded from the super-agency pitches because they professionals, particularly when they have enjoyed a taste lack the scale and resources must be feeling uncomfortable.
Our business is polarising between big and small.
As the new specialist media investment management agencies have grown in power, new media technologies have developed and the media agencies have developed strong The pressure on creativity client relationships.
The creative agencies have become increasingly discomforted and called for re-integration.
The days of 15% gross commissions 17.65% on cost are This is not possible in our view: the toothpaste is out of long gone.
Commission levels have receded to around 12% the tube.
Media agencies have declared UDI and won gross for full service, including media planning and buying, their independence.
They will not report again to account, or, as we put it, Media Investment Management.
Production planning or creative management.
Similarly, media agencies commissions have largely been reduced or eliminated, should not develop traditional creative capabilities, even although there are interesting procurement opportunities under the guise of digital.
If clients want better co-ordination for agencies themselves in television production.
between creative and media agency which in some cases While commissions persist, fees are becoming more needs to be improved the best way to do it is by housing popular with clients, although that momentum seems to the media planners in the creative agency, but with them have slowed recently.
They now represent at least 75% of our remaining employed by the media agency.
Usually time-based, with incentives, they are used agencies have paid a heavy price for ignoring the importance almost exclusively in our marketing services business, which of media.
The medium is increasingly becoming more accounts for 59% of our revenues.
In advertising, they important or as important as the message.
account for well over half of our business.
Today, the new super-agencies have a big opportunity.
Fees have a number of advantages and, on balance, Clients still require, first and foremost, creativity and great we prefer them.
They are not seasonal, in a business where creative ideas.
Second, but increasingly, they want better spending tends to be concentrated in the second and fourth co-ordination although it is no good co-ordinating a lousy quarters.
January, however, has generally become a more idea.
Finally, they want it at the lowest possible price.
If clients cut or do not spend or challenge is therefore to provide the best ideas in the best continually re-brief us, we still get paid.
co-ordinated or integrated way at the lowest cost.
Until Finally, when fee-driven, we tend to plan our annual recently, this might have been seen as a fad, but now the business better.
Fees have also tended to dampen volatility concept may be taking root.
Four major multinational clients in our operating margins.
three of them with origins or significant parts of their I cannot remember a time, in the 35 or so years I have business in Asia invited four or five of the largest holding been in the industry, when clients have been so focused on or parent companies to present for their global advertising cost.
Given overcapacity, low inflation and lack of pricing and marketing services business.
In all cases the presentations power and high management turnover and, most included advertising and media investment management, importantly, the still current economic crisis and the near and direct and in one case research.
All these clients were Armageddon or Apocalypse Now of the Lehman weekend, looking for an integrated global solution to their needs and that is perhaps understandable.
However, the question for groups that can offer alternative solutions potentially remains whether the procurement process can successfully a weakness of the single network.
purchase creative services in the way door handles or widgets In all four pitches, a group or parent company solution are bought.
The emphasis on procurement seemed to start was selected.
WPP tribes were successful in two of them.
in the pharmaceutical industry and then moved elsewhere.
In the third and fourth, we were constrained by significant It may work in media buying, where there are clearly conflict issues.
The CEO of one eliminated parent company economies of scale, but not necessarily in media planning in the first round of the first pitch declared that this was not or other creative areas.
It is true we must improve our processes and eliminate After at least four similar pitches, he has changed his waste, but can you buy ideas or our peoples creativity in mind and is pursuing a holding company approach.
Increasingly, pressure on price will WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 99
