How were doing Agency networks called Marketing in a Recession, which won this years WPP Ogilvy Healthworld Atticus Award for Public Relations.
Indeed it was a banner year for Ogilvy PR in terms of awards.
We claimed several Report by Donna Tuths left and Gloria Gibbons right Atticus honors, three of the four WPPED Cream Awards for Joint worldwide Ceos PR, and were named Asia Pacific Agency of the Year and Large Agency of the Year by PR News and The Holmes Report respectively.
Many local offices won honors in their own right as well.
The specialist social media offering from Ogilvy PR, 360 Degree Digital Influence, continued to drive the transformation of client thinking while accelerating the internal training of hundreds of our people worldwide.
The specialty continued to recruit top talent, created new tools and measurement methodologies and, in an industryleading move, added resources in digital healthcare and pioneering digital practices in closely-regulated arenas.
In fact, two leaders from the group, global managing director John Bell and author of Personality Not Included, Rohit Bhargava testified as expert witnesses in the US Food & Drug Administration hearings on social media in healthcare.
Healthcare and health policy specialist offerings In 2009 we focused on strengthening Ogilvy Healthworld continued to underpin the growth of Ogilvy PR, from large as a truly global network, with a clear global proposition wins in Washington, DC National Institutes of Health, for customers and with an effective and responsive Blue Cross Blue Shield Association and the Centers for infrastructure.
Disease Control and Prevention, to cutting-edge, molecular We established GBM Pharma, a senior management medicine communications at Feinstein Kean Health, to a team comprised of leaders for each of our key global clients.
The focus will be on developing strategic partnerships and orchestrating talent, without geographical boundaries and from Collaborative management of a channel-neutral perspective, to best deliver against our clients marketing and communications needs.
We have experienced global clients helped drive Ogilvy PRs growth on Bayer, Pfizer and Boehringer Ingelheim.
relative success in 2009 Our clients are centralizing their marketing and their spend to hub offices we have created global and regional hub offices in response: in New York, London, Paris, Mexico fast-growing 360-degree practice in Asia Pacific called and Singapore.
Despite the economic challenges of last year, Ogilvy Health, to a joint venture with Shire Health in it is worthwhile to note that OHW UK delivered strong London, Ogilvy Health PR.
growth in 2009, not least due to its role as an international Collaborative management of global clients helped hub and its collaborative 360 working model.
drive Ogilvy PRs relative success in 2009.
Beyond internal Working with Ogilvy & Mather regional management in connections of the network, Ogilvy PR partnered with Asia Pacific and Latin America we are establishing a stronger other WPP agencies to win LG Electronics, create new health presence in those regions too.
We are diversifying value propositions for Ford, and continue to service DuPont, the current offer and raising talent skills, as well as sharing Unilever and Savvis globally.
Meanwhile, 75% of clients expertise and client connections.
polled in a 2009 survey said they found their Ogilvy PR As we are increasingly seeing scientific expertise, data experience to be far superior compared with other agencies management and stakeholder mapping being requested and that they would recommend Ogilvy PR to others.
and valued by our clients, for Rx prescription medicines Confident in the state of the public relations industry, brand positioning and market access, we are committed to Ogilvy PR will further provide 360 degree integrated ensuring that medical education is established as a core offer.
solutions to clients, noting in The Economist, When you A worldwide medical education plan has been launched look at advertising versus public relations, its not going to to bed the discipline strongly across all our regions.
be those clearly defined silos.
It may be indistinguishable And lets not forget that clients buy us for ideas creative, at some point where one ends and the other begins.
strategic and commercial and the fact that we can turn these ideas into cost-effective programs that have a real impact.
