How were doing Agency networks VML rewarded concert goers with cool prizes via text sweepstakes: Southwest Airlines enabled travelers to book flights, check-in Report by Matt Anthony below and receive DING!
deals directly on their iPhone: and Sams Chief executive officer Club helped shoppers discover the perfect present through the Gifter Stress Lifter program.
For the past 18 years, VML has operated with the same As VMLs business has grown, so has our commitment to founding philosophy, providing creative solutions at the the communities where we live, work and raise our families.
intersection of marketing and technology.
Over the past year The VML Foundation, fueled by active financial participation during one of the most challenging economic periods in by the vast majority of VMLers, leads the agencys community memory VMLs proven approach and our deepening outreach program, including hands-on volunteer opportunities, relationship with Y&R propelled the agency to new heights.
pro bono projects and financial grants supporting literally Once again VML was chosen by Forrester Research, Inc. hundreds of worthy causes and not-for-profit organizations.
as one of a select number of digital agencies focusing on After 18 years of steady expansion, pushing the interactive marketing.
According to the Forrester Wave : boundaries of marketing and technology, VML has definitely US Interactive Agencies Strategy And Execution, Q3 2009, come of age.
While the recent past has been the strongest VML was designated a digital leader because of its overall period in VMLs history, the agency is poised for even more strategic skills, social and emerging media prowess, unique dynamic growth in the future.
company vision and high client ratings.
Over the past year, VML activated new client partnerships for many industry-leading brands, including Wunderman Avid Technology, Carlson Hotels Worldwide, Gatorade, Hersheys, Pioneer Hi-Bred, Toms of Maine, Warner Report by Daniel Morel below Brothers, Waste Management and Western Union.
Chairman and chief executive officer VMLs ability to leverage leading-edge technology was fully extended through the launch of the COPIA, DMC Worldwides ground-breaking open platform social e-reader.
VML led all aspects of COPIAs extensive digital experience, including brand development, product interface, social media engagements and the richly-interactive COPIA website.
Strategic and creative output for long-standing VML client partners also flourished.
Award-winning work was delivered for dozens of VML clients, including Accenture, Colgate-Palmolive, ESPN, Hills Pet Nutrition, Hostess Brands, Microsoft, Sams Club, SAP and Xerox.
VML leveraged an ever-widening array of social network platforms and technologies to help client partners such as Cartoon Network, ESPN College GameDay, LG and Wonder Bread connect with customers on an unprecedented level, fostering authenticity, transparency and trust.
VML developed engaging mobile marketing campaigns for numerous client partners.
Using smart phone applications 2009 was challenge-laden, a tale of two halves and it developed by VML, Colgate sent smiles around the globe brought us the benefits of consolidation.
through a popular photo-sharing iPhone app: Jgermeister As expected, finance and automotive clients cut their budgets.
Most clients asked us to do the same volume of work but with fewer dollars.
We rode on previous commitments for the first quarter: then the situation quickly changed, only to improve in October.
In North America, we adjusted by reducing our workforce or hiring more slowly.
In Europe, we did the same, but it took longer given protective legislation.
In the end, Wunderman benefited when smaller companies lost ground as clients consolidated budgets with the largest players.
As a result, we grew our largest global accounts, Microsoft and Nokia.
We were able to consolidate large parts of digital assignments or in-source data, web analytics WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 41
