Why we exist What we think Our mission After the threat of apocalypse, to develop and manage talent: new centres of gravity to apply that talent, by Sir Martin Sorrell throughout the world, 2009 was very tough, a year of two halves, moving from for the benefit of clients: staring into the abyss to a less-worse performance.
Although to do so in partnership: 2010 has been flat so far, we expect top-line growth in the to do so with profit.
second quarter, albeit through easier comparatives.
Miniquadrennial events this year, including the FIFA World Cup Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies and the Shanghai Expo, will further bolster results.
We see with all the necessary marketing and communications skills: similarly mild growth in 2011. companies with strong and distinctive cultures of their own: As we recover from the recession, a pattern is emerging famous names, many of them.
of three-speed growth: slow in Western Europe, quicker WPP, the parent company, complements these companies in the US, and fastest in the BRICs and Next 11 countries, in three distinct ways.
as identified by Goldman Sachs.
First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Crosscut with this trend are big changes in function and Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, technology in our industry greater concentration on the control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor traditional below-the-line disciplines of marketing services, relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated growing migration to the internet and other technologies centrally.
For the operating companies, every administrative at the expense of older media forms.
hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit WPP is well-placed to make the most of all these of professional excellence.
Price pressure from global retailers, overcapacity Second, the parent company encourages and enables in industry and subsequent discounting, the shortage of operating companies of different disciplines to work together human capital, the growing needs of government as client and for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have the the power of the internet to shatter business models, point to additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of our the ever greater need for creativity, branding and innovation people.
The parent company also plays an across-the-Group basically what we do.
role in the following functions: the management of talent, including recruitment and training: in property management: Sir Martin Sorrells article begins on page 78. in procurement and information technology: in knowledge sharing and practice development.
And, finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century Why a Ruritanian Poltergeist can equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, be as Valuable as an Automated predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and a need for marketing services ranging from advertising through Processing Plant design and website construction to research and internal by Jeremy Bullmore communications, WPP can act as a portal to provide a single point of contact and accountability.
Both the Marketing Director and the Production Director have put in strong bids for bigger budgets.
The Production Read more about our role on page 12.
Director needs a new robotic processing plant: the Marketing Director needs increased support for a successful multi-media campaign featuring a kilt-wearing Ruritanian poltergeist called Feliks.
The Board listens attentively to both but particularly in these difficult days, believes it more responsible to authorise additional Capex than additional promotional spend.
Remarkable new research from Deutsche Bank, however, suggests in the strongest possible terms that a companys assets, both tangible and intangible, need equivalent support and nourishment.
Jeremy Bullmores essay can be read in full on pages 102 and 103.
