How were doing Agency networks Grey Group grew in agency revenue, some by double-digits, and we were awarded more than 30 significant new brand assignments Report by Jim Heekin below from Procter & Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Diageo, Chairman and chief executive officer Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, Playtex and Coca-Cola.
Grey Group and Grey Grey New York and Grey London made enormous strides on their trajectory to enhanced growth and success.
Once In 2009, Greys revitalization delivered on every key measure: again, the famous E TRADE Talking Baby TV campaign, new business success, growth from existing clients, improved guided by Tor Myhren, Grey New Yorks chief creative profitability, a soaring creative reputation and the opening officer, set new records for popularity and effectiveness in of a state-of-the art new world headquarters in New York.
the SuperBowl, as did commercials for the NFL and TruTV.
And we achieved this momentum in one of the worst economic Together, they dominated social media, generating millions of downturns on record.
dollars in free publicity and critical acclaim from Advertising We adopted a new agency mission: Grey Famously Age, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, The New York Times Effective Since 1917.
It leverages our heritage of producing and sites ranging from YouTube to Hulu.
World-class communication that gets results, a 93-year track record of campaigns for Cover Girl, starring Ellen DeGeneres, Diageo helping to build many of the worlds great brands, while and Canon achieved global awareness and record sales success.
acknowledging our creative ambition, our growing cachet Grey New York today is delivering multiplatform creative for famous work that permeates popular culture and excellence and the world is taking notice.
Grey worldwide and engages people.
Grey New York were named to Advertising Ages prestigious The linkage between excellence in our offering and A-List, comprising the best agencies in the business.
Fast positive growth was undeniable in 2009.
Grey delivered one Company, the respected magazine devoted to the business of of its best new business years ever.
We were proud to win innovation, honored Grey New York as one of The Worlds such new clients brands as Allianz across the globe: the NFL, 50 Most Innovative Companies, the only advertising agency T. J. Maxx, Sargento Foods, Americas Natural Gas Alliance, to be named to the list.
And Creativity magazine, part of Reliant Energy, Bosch Purolator, Mayflower United Van Advertising Age, chose Tor Myhren as one of its Creative 50, Lines, TruTV, TOTO USA in the US: Scotiabank, Translink, those influential and inspiring leaders who have made the Four Seasons digital in Canada: Honda and Samsung in biggest impact across all areas of creative culture.
the UK: Panasonic and Yello Energy in Germany: ING and Grey London, led by David Patton, CEO, continued its Mobitel in Asia Pacific: Alcosto in Columbia, La Preferida resurgence winning one of the biggest pitches of 2009, the in Chile and Nestl in Mexico.
global Allianz account, among other high-profile additions.
The foundation of Grey is its enduring, dynamic Campaign magazine gave the agency its best report card ever.
Many of our top clients Breakthrough work for Toshiba, Samsung, Womens Aid and the British Heart Foundation have underscored its growing creative momentum.
We strengthened our global leadership in 2010 with the appointment of David Patton as president and CEO of Grey Group EMEA.
Chris Hirst, managing director of Grey London, was promoted to CEO.
Both have played pivotal roles in building the agency into one of the UKs most dynamic.
Riccardo Ferraris was appointed chairman of the Grey Latin America Leadership Council and CEO of Grey Brazil after a track record of success in Mexico.
These promotions are part of our commitment to growing our best talent.
Tim Mellors, vice chairman of Grey Group and worldwide chief creative director, who leads our Worldwide Creative Council, made significant strides in elevating our creative performance and award recognition.
Last year, Grey doubled its Cannes Festival showing, winning 18 Lions.
The agency also had its best showing ever at the London International Awards, Clios, One Show and D&AD.
Greys P&G CoverGirl campaign, starring Queen Latifah, won the Grand Prix as the most effective magazine ad of 2009, ranking first on an Affinity Vista index of ad recall, 46 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
