How were doing letter to share owners liquidity-driven terror evident in budgeting in 2009 and, continue to be developed.
There is an increasing number secondly, the realisation that revenue growth requires of major client creative and integration opportunities at a marketing investment and a loosening of the marketing Group level.
The Group continues to be extremely successful purse strings.
in most, if not all, of the integrated marketing competitions According to the recent Deutsche Bank investment that clients are increasingly initiating.
These opportunities research note on more than 30 large European and US range from the creation of teams across the Group to the consumer staples companies over a period of more than integration of various operating units and to the creation 15 years, those companies that increase advertising and of individually tailored agencies to meet clients needs.
promotion spending deliver sales growth 30% faster and The Groups integration record leads its competitors by profit growth 50% faster than their peers.
would increase the differential profit returns and advertising and promotion expenditure cutters had the benefit of increased short-term profitability in the comparison.
Our key priorities In the long term, the outlook for the advertising and marketing services industry appears favourable.
Increasing Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, globalisation, overcapacity of production in most sectors and continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and the shortage of human capital, the developments in new our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds technologies and media, the growth in importance of internal most successful provider of communications services to communications, the need to influence distribution, the new multinational and local companies, not just the largest.
focus on corporate responsibility issues such as climate To that end, we have three key strategic priorities.
change, the growth of government as a client and the focus Firstly, our immediate priority is to emerge from the on global and country organisational structures, underpin financial crisis successfully.
Compared with the last the need for our clients to continue to differentiate their 1 downturn, our people are stronger: they are better products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
resourced, motivated and incentivised than when we exited Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs, and other the last recessions in the early 1990s and 2000s.
The faster-growing geographical markets, will add significant Company is also more profitable, more liquid and better opportunities in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa and the structured.
In this economic cycle, margins have peaked Middle East and Central and Eastern Europe along with at 15.0% and bottomed we believe at 11.7%, as opposed the growth of the Next 11 such as Vietnam, Pakistan, to 10.5% and 5.6% in the early 1990s.
Advertising and marketing Second, in the medium term, to build upon the services expenditure as a proportion of gross national successful base we have established together with the product should eventually resume its growth.
Meanwhile, in 2 most recent acquisitions, for example, of TNS, Young these difficult times, we are committed to working with our & Rubicam Brands and Grey.
At Grey, the management clients to improve the effectiveness quality and efficiency structure has been settled for some time and the planned cost of their spending, or as we prefer to call it, investment.
Grey Advertising has now Given these short-term and long-term trends, your started to raise its game in terms of revenue growth and ghg Company believes it has the correct strategic priorities has started to overcome the impact of FDA non-approvals new markets, new media and consumer insight.
on products that clients have assigned to them.
At Young & Including associates, the Group had over 138,000 Rubicam Brands, our plans are also largely implemented, the full-time people in almost 2,400 offices in 107 countries one remaining task being to continue to strengthen the Y&R at the year end.
It services 354 of the Fortune Global 500 advertising agency, although the business is showing stability, companies, 28 of the Dow Jones 30, 60 of the Nasdaq 100, particularly in the US.
At TNS the integration has gone well 33 of the Fortune e-50, and 698 national or multi-national and the focus has to now be on revenue growth, capturing clients in three or more disciplines.
443 clients are served in greater market share.
four disciplines and these clients account for over 56% of Our third priority, in the long term or over the next Group revenues.
The Group also works with over 327 clients five to 10 years, is to: in six or more countries.
3 Increase the combined geographic share of revenues These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for from the faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific, Latin developing client relationships between activities nationally, America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and internationally and by function.
We estimate that over 35% Eastern Europe, from around 27% to one-third.
of new assignments in the year were generated through the Increase the share of revenues of marketing services joint development of opportunities by two or more Group including new media from around 61% now to two-thirds.
New integration mechanisms, sensitive to Maintain the share of more measurable marketing services global and local opportunities, including WPP global such as Consumer Insight and direct, digital and interactive client leaders for our top 30 clients and country managers, at 50% of revenues.
