How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Andrew Scott below Direct, promotion, digital and Chief operating officer interactive marketing International Specialist Communications and Bridge Worldwide, a leading US digital and relationship Mary Ellen Howe see page 74 marketing agency, continued its strong revenue growth, Chief operating officer serving long-time Fortune 500 clients Procter & Gamble, Specialist Communications, north America Abbott Nutrition and ConAgra Foods, while adding several new clients including Ingram Micro, Pearle Vision and WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises Red Bull.
individual business units with separate and distinct The agencys creative product won over 30 digital creative marketing expertise by industry, audience segment or awards.
Most impressively, Bridges work on P&Gs Pringles medium.
Our clients benefit from their depth of knowledge brand was recognized at the Sammy Awards, the Eyeblaster and strategic focus: the Group benefits through the flexibility Awards including the Peoples Choice Award, and Cannes these companies offer as partners for sister WPP companies a Gold Cyber Lion.
Additionally, we are able to capitalize Bridges platform, Marketing with Meaning, helps on the trends clients demand for new expertise.
Our role in clients leverage technology to ensure that their marketing, managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on in addition to the brand itself, adds value to consumers lives.
their own terms and to support co-operation opportunities It received client interest on three different continents and across the Group.
is becoming the new way to drive a brands higher-order purpose.
The agencys book, The Next Evolution of Marketing, Connect with Your Customers by Marketing with Meaning, published by McGraw-Hill, has been a top-selling marketing book on Amazon.
It was also named one of the 10 Books You Should Have Read in 2009 by Advertising Age.
Recognizing the agencys focus on its people and its culture, Bridge was named one of the Top 25 Best Places to Work by the Great Place to Work Institute, for a fourth consecutive year.
As a leading corporate events company for over 25 years, serving long-term clients such as Pfizer and AstraZeneca, MJM continues to focus on creating innovative events that transform the performance of the targeted audience in a challenged business environment.
The creative process has been re-designed to formulate efficient, strategically-sound solutions that effectively bring meetings to life and empower participants to take something of value into the marketplace to improve performance.
New clients acquired during the year included Dell, LG and The Wall Street Journal.
UK relationship management agency EWA continued to focus on adding value to client communications through a combination of strategy, insight, delivery techniques and methodologies.
New client projects during the year included TDA Return to Teaching & One to One Tuition programs, DWP Job Centre Plus, Backing Young Britain UK Government initiative and Findel.
Sales promotion agency Mando had a very strong year in 2009, partnering with new clients such as Molson Coors on Carlings British Barley door-drop and Kellogg on its first ever online coupon.
UK growth continued from Coca-Colas Coke Zone, Premier Foods and Muller.
Significant international wins included Nestl, Reckitt Benckiser and Henkel in Germany and Procter & Gamble in Spain.
72 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were doing Specialist Communications Headcount delivered field marketing campaigns for clients 2009 marked the 60th anniversary of Pace Advertising, such as Sainsburys, Kraft, Warner Home Video and Digital WPPs first US acquisition.
Pace is a specialist in the real UK during 2009.
It also won a number of new campaigns for estate and luxury lifestyle sectors, including hotels and government bodies through its COI relationship.
Headcount hospitality, spas, restaurants and luxury lifestyle products, ended the year strongly, winning contracts with Whirlpool working for leading national homebuilders such as K. and BT.
Hovnanian Homes, as well as luxury brands such as The Setai Group.
In 2009, Pace introduced P2, a customer relationship Custom media management tool designed to track leads and develop marketing intelligence for clients in the real estate sector.
Forward continued to build its reputation as a marketWorking environment design consultancy leading branded content provider delivering ROI across BDGworkfutures continued to benefit from being on the multiple channels.
Forwards portfolio saw a significant Office of Government Commerce framework with significant growth in digital content including campaign-specific work from the Communities and Local Government in the microsites, interactive ezines, content-rich emails and viral UK.
Its ongoing relationships with BNY Mellon, Network games.
Key successes include winning monthly property Rail and EDF Energy continued to strengthen, and its magazine Fabric, launching a new online magazine for Regus international reach continued to expand with a new client and retaining business with TfL, following a seven-way pitch.
In a challenging year for airlines and advertising, Spafaxs Edinburgh-based architects and interior designers BDG award-winning custom media business won contracts with McColl worked successfully through 2009 with new and MSN, Mercedes and Bombardier in North America and existing clients in both public and private sectors, despite the Teatro in Chile.
In the area of inflight entertainment, recessionary influences on the property sector.
In the public important contracts with Air Canada and British Airways sector, clients included the Universities of Edinburgh and were renewed, alongside renewals with Finnair, Swiss and St. Andrews, Lothian and Borders Police, and Glasgow SAS and new clients in Egypt and Vietnam.
For the third District Council.
In the private sector, UK clients included year in succession, its client Emirates won Best Inflight BP, Balfour Beatty, State Street Bank and Wood Mackenzie: Entertainment in the World as determined by the industry international clients included A. T. Osborne in the appointed Skytrax survey.
Spafax also added a new digital Netherlands and Mellin in Milan.
division, expanding into ancillary airline passenger Ongoing relationships with organisations such as communications platforms such as social media and mobile.
Unilever, Burberry, Conoco and Deloitte were the backbone The companys own blogsite, www.
com, grew of Dovetails contract business in 2009, while new clients from launch to attract over 10,000 subscribers worldwide.
added include GMR Infrastructure UK Ltd, Skanska ID and the Arts Council.
Demographic and sector marketing Media and film production services The Food Group solidified its position as a leading food and beverage agency by re-establishing its relationship with In 2009, MRC continued to build its reputation as one of the Norwegian Seafood Export Council as it re-entered the the worlds leading independent film, television and digital US market.
In addition, The Food Group became agency studios.
MRC Film released four films in 2009: Brno, of record for Wynnstarr Flavors and Gilsa Dairy, which starring Sacha Baron Cohen and directed by Larry Charles markets the Frusion, la Crme, Weight Watchers and Seinfeld, Curb Your Enthusiasm : The Invention of Lying, LALA brands.
co-written by, co-directed by and starring Ricky Gervais: In 2009, The Food Group continued to work with Kraft The Box, starring Cameron Diaz: and Shorts, directed by Foods, Tabasco, Dawn Foods, Florida Department of Robert Rodriguez Spy Kids, Sin City.
MRC also completed Citrus, Simplot, Dannon and PepsiCo.
It also continued its principal photography on two films The Adjustment 15-year relationship with Nike by hosting the premier food Bureau starring Matt Damon and Emily Blunt, and Devil and beverage networking event at the flagship store on the produced by M. Night Shyamalan and directed by the Magnificent Mile in Chicago.
Geppetto, the youth marketing company, worked In television, MRC aired multiple shows including The with a range of clients such as ConAgra Foods, Walmart, Life and Times of Tim on HBO, the reality show Shaq vs on PepsiCo and Hersheys, to develop both new products ABC starring NBA superstar Shaquille ONeal, Rita Rocks and activation programs designed to grow those businesses on Lifetime and The Goode Family on Comedy Central from with young people and mothers.
executive producer Mike Judge King of the Hill, WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 73 How were doing Specialist Communications channels, including: Deal or No Deal, Shameless, Skins, Friday Night with Jonathan Ross, Gavin and Stacey, Alan Carr Chatty Man, Live at the Apollo, Jamie Olivers Tour of America, Casualty 1909 and Total Wipeout.
The Farm and its staff were proud to win a Bafta in 2009 for the audio mix on Ross Kemp on Gangs as well as two Royal Television Society awards: for the editing on The X Factor and the digital picture enhancement on Wallander.
In the future 2010 is expected to be challenging as our businesses focus on adding value in a restricted spending environment.
We will continue to emphasize developing digital opportunities, controlling costs, and providing superior client service through specialized expertise and effective collaboration across disciplines.
MRC Digital distributed Seth MacFarlanes Cavalcade of Cartoon Comedy, which has sponsorships with companies such as Nike and Burger King, and MommyCast, a weekly videocast sponsored by companies such as Procter & Gamble, State Farm and Johnson & Johnson.
Metro bucked the trend in the London event market and had a successful 2009.
It expanded its reach within Shell International and was awarded a place on the three-year MICE roster to provide event production and AV support.
New business wins included the Tesco AGM, Deloitte Annual Partners Meeting, numerous conferences for Roche, securing a place on the COI roster for event management and webcasting, a Rolex event at the Royal Opera House, ING webcasts to market analysts, and sole-supplier status for Vinopolis.
Metro continued to support recruitment roadshows for Accenture, Linklaters, Deloitte and Ernst and Young.
Metro Ecosse in Edinburgh strengthened its relationship with Experian by winning sole supplier status for event production and successfully produced webcasts for NHS Scotland, Experian and the EICC, and for the fourth year in a row provided technical production support for the Edinburgh Film Festival.
The Farm Group enjoyed a highly successful year in 2009.
It maintained its dominant share of the ever-competitive London post-production market and again, supplied full post-production services on the high-rating and awardwinning ITV primetime shows The X Factor and Britains Got Talent as well as key performers on the other main 74 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
