How we behave Directors report once again, this year the Directors report includes reviews from the chairmen of three Board committees: Philip lader, as chairman of the Company and its nomination Committee: Paul Spencer, as chairman of the Audit Committee: and Jeffrey rosen, as chairman of the Compensation Committee.
It also contains an analysis of the Companys compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements.
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination Committee Dear share owner urveying worldwide economic conditions in last years Annual Report, the Group chief executive observed that the coming year wont be tidy.
S In sharp contrast with 2008, when WPP posted record billings, revenues and operating profit, the past year was, again in his word, brutal for our Company and the marketing communications services industry in its entirety.
That total share owner return actually increased during this period with WPPs dividend level being maintained and its share price rising considerably can be attributed to very specific factors.
Recovery of the global financial markets and key industries was essential, and advantageous currency impacts certainly helped.
Our long-term strategy of geographic and product diversification and investment in digital and consumer insight businesses continues to be successful, particularly when more traditional locales and platforms are under severe pressure.
Especially noteworthy was the consistency of our operating companies new business wins.
But having monitored management very closely during this trying year, the Board especially recognizes managements adroit, albeit painful, calibration of expenses, personnel and treasury functions.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 109 How we behave Directors report thorough reviews of the integration and performance of recent and prior acquisitions, with central attention to recently-acquired Taylor Nelson Sofres plc TNS and its role within Kantar, all examined in the context of our diverse portfolio of complementary companies contributions to attainment of the Groups strategic objectives: emphasis on furthering our understanding of rapidlygrowing geographic markets, including regular briefings on WPPs activities in Asia and one meetings focus on Latin America: presentations to strengthen the Boards and senior managements grasp of new media, its commercial and social dimensions, and the ways in which it is transforming consumer behavior, as well as the global communications and marketing services industry: exacting formulation and management of a performancedriven remuneration program ranging from the Group chief executive to more than 50 key personnel that is essential to the Groups recruitment, motivation and retention of the talent that is pre-eminently important to WPPs business: a program which closely aligns employees interests with those Report by Philip Lader above of share owners and, supremely important in years like 2009, Chairman of the Company optimizes the budgetary flexibility of variable personnel costs: and chairman of the Nomination Committee reviews and approval of financial statements, critical accounting policies upon which they are based, and supporting systems of reporting and internal controls: An additional, not insignificant contributor to how the analyses of not only the systems accuracy, but their Group navigated 2009s troubled waters, as we trust our responsiveness to potentially urgent liquidity and financing share owners might agree, was the manner, intensity and requirements in stressful circumstances: breadth of WPPs corporate governance.
It continued at Board meetings throughout the year, intense to be characterized by: give-and-take and informal discussions with WPP rigorous, common-sense Board oversight, modeled business leaders, such as the CEOs of the Groups major on the ongoing evolution of best practices, particularly brands and scores of key personnel, as well as clients, in risk management: government officials including Brian Cowen, the Taoiseach unceasing re-evaluation of managements tactical of the Republic of Ireland, where the Company is now implementation of the Boards strategic objectives and the tax-domiciled, executives of relevant companies and operating companies financial and creative performance: securities analysts: and diligent assessment and review of finance, industry and examination of operating companies illustrative creative operations indicators: and products, client services, and key personnel transitions.
vigilant stewardship of WPPs considerable assets, tangible The Group chief executive continued the Brand Check and intangible.
practice, at every Board meeting, not only highlighting Though we are relatively confident about a more stable specific employees, major clients and principal competitors, 2010, there will be no relaxation of these standards.
but also inviting non-executive directors detailed, farIn 2009, as one measure of your Boards commitment, we ranging consideration of individual operating companies met, as a full Board or in committees, 28 times.
Additionally performance, geopolitical and industry-specific phenomena, and informally, directors, senior management, operating and potentially disruptive or beneficial events.
Risks are company leaders, professional advisors and share owners, gauged at every meeting: risk management is at the forefront among others, met innumerable times during the year.
Among our principal undertakings during this period As virtually all commercial enterprises experienced in some expressly addressed to the years challenges were: 2009, economic conditions change with increasing rapidity: heightened consultation with the Group chief executive and your Board comprised of remarkably independentand finance director regarding responses to uncertain and minded men and women from across the globe, with active fragile economic conditions, with income statement and responsibilities and broad international experience, from balance sheet issues addressed frequently: Wall Street and the City of London, international 110 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How we behave Directors report management consulting, asset management, angel investing assert that a worldwide enterprise of WPPs scale and range and academia, advertising and internet start-ups, consumerof commercial activities benefits enormously from long-term products, energy and manufacturing industries, government directors who are actively engaged in the Groups governance and global non-profit organizations employs the breadth and that independence should be determined not by such and depth of these perspectives in its fashioning and an arbitrary standard as tenure, but on a case-by-case basis, assessing the Groups risk management.
with full disclosure to share owners of any appearance of In that context, succession of the Groups CEO and other conflict with published guidelines.
key executives was again, as for the past seven years We do agree that occasional change and renewal are addressed substantively in 2009.
The entire Board devoted healthy for a Board.
For that reason, Bud Morten an major parts of two meetings to reflecting on these individuals exemplary non-executive director, whose experience, and some other 200 senior managers and rising stars, skills, judgment and commitment of time have constituted an performance, developmental opportunities and potential invaluable asset of the Group has stepped down as the successors.
Some of our businesses, if independent, would Boards senior independent director.
One cannot exaggerate rank among our industrys largest, and we are therefore how well served we share owners have been by this respected fortunate to have an impressive roster of executives with individuals service.
His quantitative analytical experience, extensive senior management experience, several dozen of qualitative judgment and routinely painstaking review of all who could readily undertake parent company or other relevant documents are indicative of his long-standing record key roles.
Only valued more by his Board Your Board and the Groups chief executive have colleagues is his capacity to challenge and debate with exchanged candid, specific, current opinions about the senior management and often with several of us without candidates, internal and external, best qualified to succeed being disagreeable.
He has been and, by standing for rehim: and on several structured and informal occasions, election as a non-executive director, will continue to be, the non-executive directors, in his absence, addressed the we trust, a model director, one with an unflagging, potential selection process and succession candidates.
take this risk management responsibility extremely seriously.
Succeeding Bud as senior independent director is Jeffrey We continue to adhere to the position that lest public Rosen, deputy chairman of Lazard, a member of this Board discussion of this subject foster speculation and distraction since December 2004, and a distinguished 30-year veteran the content of these ongoing deliberations should remain of international financial transactions.
He also brings to this strictly confidential.
role a thorough understanding of WPP from his conscientious In light of the financial communitys experience since service as chairman of our Compensation Committee and 2008, your Board concurs with the general calls for intensified energetic membership of our Audit Committee.
corporate governance and believes that our practices have Evidenced by our current slate of candidates for this evidenced this.
We have been attentive, nonetheless, to the Board, we continue to require that non-executive directors slew of reviews and reports on this subject: and on my who have served on the Board for nine years or more submit colleagues behalf, I have personally engaged in a variety of themselves for re-election annually.
For that reason, my such studies.
Given WPPs global operations and complexity, name is among those on the list.
The Board does not view your Board welcomes meaningful and beneficial engagement my position as non-executive chairman, my chairmanship with share owners to convey our governance practices.
To that of the Nomination Committee and membership on the end, we hope that our communications throughout the year Compensation Committee, or my nine years service as and this Annual Report provide a comprehensive, clear picture compromising my independence.
It is their considered of how the Board and the Group operate.
judgment formally reviewed on an annual basis that For governance to be genuinely effective, however, every such continuity helps ensure co-ordination of related Board board must tailor best practices and innovations to the matters and practicable, informed management of our idiosyncrasies of its organizations industry, culture, governance work.
By invitation of the Audit Committees operations, regions, and personalities without diminishing chairman, I also attended all of its meetings in 2009 and, the rigorous execution of oversight responsibilities.
Of WPPs with his consent, will continue this practice to stay fully exceptions from some advisory groups preferences, one abreast of the Committees and our auditors findings.
example that is occasionally referenced is our position that The Boards Nomination Committee now comprised of a directors independence may be determined on a factual, Esther Dyson, Orit Gadiesh, Lubna Olayan and me invites rather than mere chronological, basis.
the participation, in whole or in part, of the Group chief Some institutional investors and their representative executive, the Company Secretary, and the Group chief bodies contend that directors who have served for more than counsel in its meetings.
In 2009, we formally met three times nine years should no longer be considered independent: nor, and more frequently conversed informally to assess the by definition, should the Group chairman.
We respectfully Boards composition and to consider potential new members, WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 111 How we behave Directors report identified from a variety of both internal and external questionnaire in this regard and identified opportunities sources.
Paramount to our thinking has been how both the for improvement.
Separate conversations were then held Companys progress on its long-term strategic objectives and between each director and either the chairman or the senior its month-by-month performance towards financial goals can independent director, who also led the non-executive best be assessed by the collective experience of individuals directors assessment of my performance as chairman.
Based on this process, we continued our tradition of For the present, no changes were deemed necessary.
implementing changes to enhance the Boards performance Practically all of our directors hold or have recently held of its responsibilities.
strategic leadership positions: and one, Orit Gadiesh, is Groupthink is the antithesis of our Boards behavior.
chairman of Bain & Company, one of the worlds most Each Board and Committee meeting challenges well-tested sought-after strategic consultants.
European, American, assumptions, long-standing practices and even iconic Asian and Middle Eastern directors together inform our executives.
We thereby seek to comply with and global perspective and ever-increasing focus on fasterthroughout the financial year ended 31 December 2009, growing markets.
Several directors who are deeply involved WPP plc did so or surpassed the requirements of the with new media notably, Esther Dyson, an acknowledged Combined Code on Corporate Governance, NASDAQs web authority and active investor in new information rules, US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and, where technologies, and Mark Read, who oversees the Groups practicable, guidelines issued by institutional investors interactive portfolio take the lead in monitoring WPPs and their representative bodies.
strides in this field and identifying opportunities and threats.
Each year over the past decade, our responsibilities Our Consumer Insight initiatives are especially informed as non-executive directors have increased substantially.
by Harvard Business School professor and former London We do not shrink from these: nor do we take them lightly.
Business School Dean John Quelch, one of academes Our iPhones and BlackBerrys hum with near-daily messages most highly regarded marketing experts, and Colin Day, prompted by packs of WPP reading materials, the Group Reckitt Benckiser Groups finance director and former chief executives, the senior independent directors or Cadbury plc director.
my musings, or any directors reaction to news-of-the-day.
All of us directors have managed large organizations: They, as well as our Company Secretary and Group chief Lubna Olayan, for example, is currently CEO of a major counsel, devote an enormous amount of time, frequently Saudi Arabian corporate group.
Most have had hands-on with personal sacrifice.
Essential to our effectiveness are the financial responsibility: witness Her Majesty honoring oft-unsung efforts of those at WPP who directly support our Paul Spencer last year for his contributions to financial work and the highly competent professionals who meet the accountability, practiced as chairman of our Audit never-ending stream of legal, regulatory, tax, accounting Committee and as Independent Trustee of BA, BAT, and administrative demands.
BT and Rolls-Royces pension funds.
While forecasters promise a more benevolent economy Our corporate responsibility program summarized for 2010 and early signs are encouraging, operating in in this report and in our separate CR publication and more than 100 jurisdictions, with 138,000 people and some championed by our Board colleague Tim Shriver, the CEO 2,400 offices, can be tidy only through their disciplined, of Special Olympics and prominent spokesman for business co-ordinated efforts.
WPPs people across the globe are public duties is comprehensive and impactful.
Well beyond creating value each day, for our clients and for our share the Groups measures to improve our workplaces, enhance owners.
It is, every day, a competition with other firms and our peoples employment experience and contribute to with our own past creativity.
That tenacity and dedication environmental sustainability, as well as other articulated brought us through 2009 relatively unscathed.
It is such CR undertakings, WPP companies and their teams complete professionalism which can generate superior returns for uncompensated promotional, design and related services for our share owners in this and future years.
hundreds of worthy causes worldwide.
For that and for our fellow share owners trust in In addition to evaluating the relevance of our directors our stewardship of these interests, we directors are profiles to our strategic objectives, the Nomination most thankful.
Committees 2009 work also complied with governance duties ranging from implementation of rules governing the disclosure and approval of directors  Philip Lader and review of committee terms of reference to oversight 16 April 2010 of succession planning and the Board self-evaluation.
The Board again completed, in 2009, as part of its commitment to rigorous standards of corporate governance, a thorough self-evaluation.
All directors completed a confidential 112 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
