How were doing Agency networks Young & Rubicam Brands our disciplines across a broad international geography, now represent well more than a third of our total revenue.
Most Report by Peter Stringham below of these clients have continued to increase budgets through Global chief executive officer the downturn, finding the diversification of our resources part of their strategy to defend and build their brands during The idea of Young & Rubicam Brands was brought to life the downturn.
more than 30 years ago to give our clients access to the full Our GCPs have traditionally been a catalyst for positive range of marketing communications capabilities they might change.
On behalf of GCP clients, we push on our need to reach their customers.
Each of the companies would technological front, expand our research repertoire and be leaders in their field, advancing their discipline, but enlarge our creative palette.
They make us better partners committed to working together in the interest of their to all our clients, large and small, and tougher competitors shared clients.
in the new business arena.
In 2009, we turned our focus on What has evolved is not simply our philosophy of Best the cornerstone of our integrated assignments training a Alone.
Better Together, but a model and operating structure new generation of global client leaders who are empowered that offers an extraordinary depth of focus on our clients to assemble the most appropriate blend of communications needs and goals, exceptional channel neutrality, and the disciplines on behalf of their clients.
ability to assemble a team practiced at working collaboratively from some of the worlds leading marketing communications companies.
We push on our technological front, At a time when many companies are carefully scrutinizing expand our research repertoire and the allocation of their marketing resources, the wisdom of enlarge our creative palette the Young & Rubicam Brands model for our clients and for ourselves has been reaffirmed.
Our 25 Global Client Partners, defined as GCPs by their use of at least three of To advance our integrated model, two years ago we created Raymond Rubicam University RRU, named after our founder, who revolutionized our industry in his day.
The program is a fertile training ground for our client leaders an opportunity to gain valuable cross-disciplinary, crossgeography experience.
RRU gives us a hothouse environment to work with clients and prospects on a particular business challenge.
What results is an integrated solution that is state of the art and, for each of the participants, larger lessons that are brought back to our day-to-day business.
In each and every session, our relationships with our clients have deepened.
What follows is the Best Alone part of our equation reports from each of our companies.
In a tough year, the Young & Rubicam Brands companies have moved their clients brands forward and been rewarded with relatively strong organic growth.
They have won major new clients.
Performed well at award shows.
Provided thought leadership in the industry.
Won the accolades of their clients and industry colleagues.
We have entered 2010 with the same tenacity, commitment and optimism that drove our operations last year.
We continue to build our collaborative culture with new training and tools, through our strong base of category-leading clients.
