What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity given away at such low interest rates, despite the shudders 9.0% on brand-building advertising.
Many CEOs know in the sub-prime markets.
what they spend on advertising, but not on trade promotion.
The problem is that consumers grow used to such Often the latter exceeds the former, even in heavy-spending discounting and wait for new car or truck introductions and above-the-line companies.
the discounting that goes with them.
Auto manufacturers It may well be that manufacturers will seek to cut trade face profitless prosperity and break-even economics at full spending and boost brand-building advertising, particularly capacity.
Hence the decision by Dieter Zetsche at Daimler at a time when the trade is consolidating at such a rapid rate.
to dispose of Chrysler what did Cerberus do on branding?
Bribing customers for distribution is a recipe for ruin.
Again, and the strategies of General Motors and Ford to cut capacity.
it is branding and product differentiation that must come Interestingly, Japanese and Korean manufacturers, and to the fore.
some German ones too, have tended to resist excessive discounting, offering only $1,000 or $2,000.
Instead, they concentrate on design, new products and branding to build The hegemony of Big Retail a price premium, although even they have problems now.
If you focus on price, you build commodities.
If you focus One of WPPs media partners sells 10% of its cover sales on innovation and differentiation, you earn a price premium through Walmart.
To the media owner, this is life or death.
This seems to be the approach of Alan To Walmart it is a rounding error and the province of the Mulally at Ford, as he brings a laser-like focus on the Blue third or fourth level of procurement, making the publishers Oval and has disposed of peripheral brands.
More people visit Walmart in the US in a week evidence of the inadvisability of discounting came when than go to church on a Sunday, leading some to suggest that General Motors had to lower its earnings forecast for 2008 the supermarket chain is the new religion.
Recent comments and actions by GM do indicate $408 billion of sales, is the seventh largest country by retail a slight difference in approach and a shift to more focus sales, just after China.
It accounts for 10% of US retail sales, on product although, even after having taken government while Tesco takes 14% of UK retail sales.
Both enjoy 30% money, GM and Chrysler entered and exited Chapter 11 of grocery sales in their domestic markets.
Of the Big Three, only Ford, who resisted the Microsoft CEO conference, Lee Scott, then boss of Walmart, siren calls of government aid, looks strong.
More competition targeted a doubling of its US market share to almost 20% from the Chinese and Indians, particularly Tata, will ram the of retail sales.
Price promotion just does not work.
The product Some 15% or $12 billion of Procter & Gambles is key.
worldwide sales already go through Walmart.
If this was A similarly unfortunate trend is occurring in the food a business unit on its own, it would rank among the worlds industry.
Packaged goods companies continue to try to build top 50 FMCG companies.
Other examples include Kellogg share by discounting and price competition, particularly as at 21%, Kraft at 16% and PepsiCo at 13%.
They pay higher trade discounts Influence over and control of distribution is not a new and slotting allowances and fund increased promotional issue.
After all, advertising was developed in the 19th century activity.
Just like the media owners, the food manufacturers by manufacturers to appeal over the heads of wholesalers or are being squeezed by two factors the other is obesity.
Increasing retail concentration Diabetes is a pandemic and a huge area of public concern.
not only in the US but also in Europe and Latin America Increasingly, commodity-like food companies find themselves will emphasise the importance of focusing on product in a weak position, in contrast to the health-based or innovation and branding, along with better understanding wellbeing segments of the packaged goods industry, which of point-of-purchase consumer behaviour and emphasis on do not suffer from the same phenomenon.
Here, companies packaging, display and retail design.
As a senior Asia Pacific are more focused on product innovation, research and Procter & Gamble executive has said, depending on which development or science, along with branding, to build P&G brand you are talking about, something between 30% stronger market shares.
As a result, brands and margins are and 80% of purchasing decisions are made at the point of more robust and volumes greater.
Procter calls it the first moment of truth.
Recent accounting changes in the US forced companies PepsiCo chief executive Indra Nooyi calls for to show gross and net sales, at least temporarily.
As a concentration on retail theatre, rather than lavish, costly result, more data is available on the balance between TV commercials.
Other FMCG leaders call for agencies to advertising and promotional spending.
According to start with the shelf and not a 60-second TV commercial.
Cannondale, our marketing and channel management WPP believes an understanding of distribution and retail is consultancy in the US now part of Kantar Retail, the essential and it is one of our core practice development areas.
average consumer packaged goods company spends 16.4% The Store, our global retail practice, links more than 900 of sales on trade promotion price cuts basically and only professionals working on retail business and issues around WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 95
