How were doing Agency networks JWT Our Lion count represents every region in which we operate and spans almost every category.
Highlights also include a Report by Bob Jeffrey below gold for The Times of Indias A Day in the Life of Chennai, Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer, JWt silver for Nokias N96 Bruce Lee Limited Edition and silver for Nestls Frigor Ice Cream campaigns.
We believe in work, reputation and growth.
It turns indifferent brands into beloved brands, and it attracts clients to our agency.
In 2009, JWT created some of our most pioneering work yet.
Yes, Virginia, for example, was a critically acclaimed original 30-minute animated Christmas special for Macys that aired on CBS.
We also launched the worlds first interactive reality business show, Microsofts Its Everybodys Business with Jack & Suzy Welch.
Our Unbreakable Kiss installation for fide Beers helped couples capture an expression of love as unique and enduring as a diamond.
And our work for the launch of the Ford Fiesta has been recognized around the globe with numerous accolades, including Best Car BusinessWeek and 2009 Car of the Year The Sun Motors.
As testament to our creative and competitive edge, Adweek recently named JWT its 2009 Global Agency of the Year, marking the first time the industry honor has been awarded to JWT.
We continued to expand our client roster with impressive new business wins.
Within a year of winning the Microsoft business against steep competition, 2009 brought several additional accounts from the client, including Bing, Microsoft Office and the Microsoft One commercial campaign making JWT Microsofts largest agency partner.
Other significant wins around the globe included Debenhams UK, The strategy of work Rimmel UK, Egyptian Tourism EMEA, Schick Edge and Skintimate US, Walmart LATAM, Telmex LATAM, Whether it was the stalled economy or the accelerated role of Singapore Tourism Board APAC and Sony APAC.
interactive media, the past 12 months was no time for novices.
We work around a central premise of global networked And at JWT, one thing we are certainly not is novices.
We are more steadfast than ever in the belief that Its not only our storied history that makes us unique.
ideas come from anywhere, which is why we need to be It is our pioneering work and our strategic focus that allow everywhere.
With 200 offices in more than 90 countries, us to push harder than ever to break boundaries and create were defining a boundary-free future free from work that people want to spend time with.
It has helped us geographical, media and historical constraints.
maintain many enduring relationships: Unilever 106 years, At the heart of this boundary-free future are our people.
Kraft 86 years, Kimberly-Clark 81 years, Rolex 62 years, This past year, we built on our solid foundation of talented Shell 47 years, and the list goes on.
Its how we stay relevant and creative individuals by welcoming new faces to our for the future and how we continue to distinguish ourselves global leadership team.
Fernando Vega-Olmos joined us as from the competition, even during some of the most creative chairman, Continental Europe and Latin America, challenging times in memory.
pushing the creative boundaries in these regions.
We welcomed For 145 years, weve been on the leading edge from Guy Hayward, CEO of JWT UK Group, and rounding out producing the first-ever TV commercial, in 1939, to creating our executive team, we welcomed Jean-Louis Roch, Alex innovative content for forward-looking brands like Pallete and Facundo Goldaracena, who joined as part of Microsoft, Macys and HSBC in 2009. a newly created Global Task Force GTF.
Last year, JWT earned 26 Lions at the Cannes Lions We believe in unified communications.
Its about thinking International Advertising Festival, including a Grand Prix for and delivering as one organization across channels and Nestles Kit Kat Mail Tokyos first-ever Lion of any kind.
Over the past several years, weve focused on WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 37
