What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity the world, updating them on the latest developments and Its whats inside that matters trends subject to client confidentiality.
Management Ventures with more than 50 global retail analysts along Probably the biggest block to progress for our clients and with Cannondale and Glendinning Associates, both experts indeed ourselves is internal politics.
Turf, territory and ego in channel management, supplement and consolidate our prevent productive change.
If the chairmen or CEOs of our knowledge of global retailing.
clients saw what we saw, they would be horrified.
If they In addition, OgilvyAction gives WPP an even broader and we devoted half the time that they or we spent on distribution offer with its focus on product categories that internal politics on the consumer, client or competition, have been denied access to traditional media.
Our new they and we would be considerably more successful.
investment, Smollan, has over 15,000 people focused on You could argue that most of the communication we retail brand management in South Africa, China, India and, co-ordinate is aimed at internal audiences rather than next, Brazil.
Recent comments by Walmart, for example, external ones.
Some people, such as David Ogilvy and seem to indicate an even greater focus on global purchasing Allan Leighton when long ago he was at retailer Asda have discounts and co-ordination with manufacturers, spelling maintained that ensuring your internal constituencies are on more price pressure and referred pain for suppliers.
At the side is often more important than external ones.
Only when same time, Procter & Gamble has taken a minority stake internal communications are working can your company in Ocado, the UKs leading online home shopping, direct talk positively to customers, potential customers, suppliers, delivery food network to move closer to the customer.
potential employees, journalists, analysts, investors, government and NGOs.
Building such virtuous circles in a uni-branded company A quest for talent is one thing.
Inside a multi-branded company such as WPP, which has grown by acquisition, our tribes operate Attracting, recruiting, developing, training, motivating, independently to deal with dis-economies of scale and client incentivising and retaining human capital remains crucial.
Things are far more complicated.
Trying to ensure While there is certainly too much production and capacity 100,000 people face in the same direction at the same time is in general, one resource is in ever shorter supply in the 21st not easy.
On the other hand, once achieved, internal unison century talent.
Every statistic points to a reduction.
The and common focus make a very powerful army.
It may not slowing birth rate, declining marriage rates, more working be fashionable to talk about charismatic or strong CEO women, higher divorce rates, more single-parent families, leadership: the focus is more on the CEO as coach, mentor smaller families, ageing populations all these factors are or team leader.
But our experience is that the most successful reducing the supply of talent.
companies with which we work have CEOs who understand Even countries with strong, younger demographics, the importance of the brand, have a strong vision and such as Mexico, will face similar situations by 2020.
Some implement that through a strong CMO.
governments are trying to stimulate the birth rate.
The After all, at long last, it is understood that all business Chinese government is said to be reviewing the one-baby strategy is really marketing strategy, starting with the policy and Russia is worried about its ageing 141 million consumer and working backwards from there.
Western Europe and Japan face significant our companies develop internal communications through longer-term economic growth issues as a result of the Advertising, Media Investment Management, Consumer declining proportion of young people and an overall Insight, Public Relations & Public Affairs, Branding & population decline.
The elected and then rejected Prime Identity, and Healthcare and Specialist Communications.
Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan wanted to stimulate the However, no single operating entity exists within WPP to Japanese birth rate, as one way of strengthening the execute internal communications on a worldwide basis.
That is one reason why the rapid Still an opportunity for the future.
inclusion of Turkey into the EU is so important: another source of population growth, as well as immigrants to stimulate economic growth and access to the Muslim world.
The government as client In a less differentiated world, it will become more and more important for companies to stand out through the The speculative blowouts around the internet in 2001 and quality and responsiveness of their people.
Making sure 2002, and sub-prime and insurance monoline crises starting that your people buy into your strategy and structure will be in October 2007 were perhaps inevitable and, given their increasingly important.
Living the brand operationally size, lengthy corrections were necessary.
Overall, the past will be critical.
seven or so years have had their share of pain.
The US economy was in a political cycle in 2004, as the government used fiscal spending to stimulate the economy.
