How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus This growth has been fueled in large part by new business wins.
In 2009 we picked up more than 100 new clients Report by Kelly Clark below around the world, representing more than $800 million in new Chief executive officer billings.
According to preliminary RECMA figures for 2009, Maxus billings now stand at more than $3 billion worldwide.
In late 2008, we launched a plan to transform Maxus into Our new clients come from a wide range of product and a different kind of agency designed to attract new kinds of service categories and it is particularly encouraging that clients, deliver a different type of service, and give our people many of these wins are in the worlds fastest-growing new opportunities to grow.
Despite the enormous challenges markets.
Our wins included Haier and RenHe in China: posed by the global economic recession, I am happy to report Sberbank, Renaissance and Kalina in Russia: Red Bull, that we made substantial progress towards realizing those ICI Paints and Rediff.
com in India: GlaxoSmithKline in the goals in 2009.
Philippines: Telenor in Pakistan: THP in Vietnam: JetStar In last years report, I said we are creating an indigenous in Australia: Coty and Powermat in Italy: Experian and network, a nimble and aggressive partnership of strong Powermat in the UK: ANGA, Panera Bread and Powermat national agencies everywhere we operate.
Fortunately, we in the US: the European Fiat account: and UPS globally.
were able to build on our strong position in important In addition to this new business success, we continued high-growth markets, including India, China, Pakistan, to deliver strong work and business results for our current Vietnam, Poland, Turkey and Russia.
We have a new strategic proposition called joined our network in the UK, Spain, Portugal and the Netherlands.
We combined our operations in Turin and Milan to create a stronger Maxus Italy.
And we hired or We are working on exciting promoted smart, ambitious leaders in Australia, Germany, geographic expansion plans in Italy, the Netherlands, Thailand, the US and the UK.
the Middle East and Latin America There are now more than 1,000 Maxus people in 40 offices worldwide and, according to RECMA, we are the fastest-growing global media agency.
Relationship Media, which helps our clients build stronger, more profitable relationships between their consumers and their brands.
This new approach is being rolled-out across all Maxus offices, supported by a sophisticated toolkit and a major training commitment for our people and our clients.
And GroupMs unmatched scale and trading expertise continues to ensure that our clients get the best access to media at the best prices.
Looking forward to 2010 and beyond, we see lots of opportunity.
First, we have meaningful growth prospects with our current clients by working with them in new markets and delivering new services.
Second, we have a strong new business pipeline, with some very encouraging results already in the first few months of 2010.
And third, we are working on exciting geographic expansion plans in the Middle East and Latin America.
Wherever I go in the Maxus world, I am always inspired by our peoples passion, creativity and drive.
They have delivered great results in 2009, in extraordinarily challenging circumstances.
Maxus is well-positioned for the future, and I am confident they will do even better in 2010.
