How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Performance Objective Participation period Conditions Change of control Short-term Base salary to maintain All employees.
n a Salary levels are n a package determined by taking competitiveness a number of relevant at all levels factors into account, within the Group.
including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash bonus to incentivise Approximately 10% 1 year Achievement the cash bonuses of executive directors do not delivery of of employees are of challenging crystallise on a change of control.
value at all levels eligible to receive a performance goals within the Group.
financial and non-financial at the individual and business unit level.
Performance to incentivise Key operating 1 year Achievement of See note below for restricted Stock Plan.
share awards delivery of value company challenging and to align executives.
performance goals with interests financial and of share owners.
non-financial at operating company level.
executive share to incentivise Key head office 1 year Achievement of See note below for restricted Stock Plan.
awards delivery of value executives and challenging individual and to align executive directors.
with interests Further twoor three-year of share owners.
Long-term leAP III and to incentivise Participation offered 5 years relative tSr on a change of control, the investment period renewed leAP long-term only to those key performance against for all outstanding awards ends, the number performance by executives currently a group of key of vesting shares is determined at that date comparing WPPs no more than 20 communication pro rated in the case of leAP III and any other tSr against the tSr people whose services comparator rights cease.
the number of shares that vest of key comparators contributions companies, may be reduced to prevent adverse uS tax which are transcend their weighted by market provisions applying.
the Compensation weighted by market day-to-day role, capitalisation in the Committee may determine that outstanding capitalisation in the including executive case of leAP III, awards are exchanged for equivalent awards.
case of leAP III, directors.
subject to a fairness and to maximise review by the alignment with Compensation share owner Committee.
interests through a high level of personal financial commitment.
restricted Stock to encourage a Directors and n a typically three-year the vesting period for all outstanding awards is Plan share ownership senior executives retention period.
the Compensation Committee culture and of the operating may determine that outstanding awards are long-term retention companies and exchanged for equivalent awards or that as well as senior head office outstanding awards are unaffected by the supporting executives.
executive Stock to provide a tool to occasional use only 3 years Conditions, if any, are the number of shares or ADrs is pro-rated option Plan promote retention to deal with special determined at the time down in accordance with the change of control and recruitment.
the Compensation Committee may determine that outstanding awards are unaffected by the change of control.
Worldwide to develop a employees with n a three-year vesting the number of shares or ADrs is pro-rated ownership Plan stronger ownership at least two years period.
down in accordance with the change of control culture.
the Compensation Committee may not offered to determine that outstanding awards are those participating unaffected by the change of control.
in other share programs or to executive directors.
