How were doing Consumer Insight Kantar The things that the project directors yearned for was a mixture of the big e. g. more drugs, more doctors and Report by Eric Salama below the small e. g. fix the broken solar panels, have a washing Chairman and chief executive officer machine in the malnutrition ward to speed up the process of getting clean sheets back onto the beds.
And so it is in our business.
Our clients and our people Lessons from Malawi need to see progress in big and small ways and our ability to deliver depends on the performance of talented individuals.
Given the enormity of the challenges presented by the The economic climate and scale of the challenge involved economic climate and by the integration of TNS, Malawi in integrating TNS could have paralysed us but it didnt.
may seem like a strange place to start this report.
But that We emerge from 2009 stronger with much of the is where six of us found ourselves early in 2010, travelling restructuring behind us and with significant progress in the country and seeing for ourselves the way in which improving the output and value which our clients receive.
UNICEF had used the $500,000 of donations Kantar people had raised.
You can imagine some of my reactions to that week a Our ambition renewed promise never to take things for granted and a huge pride in the way that Kantar employees have continued to Our ambition is simple: to inspire our clients and people, help the communities in which they work and live and by the and to contribute to WPPs success: way not just through UNICEF but through numerous local Developing profound insights and high-quality data: programs in which we are involved such as Added Value and delivering them to clients at the right time and in such an township.
co. za, Millward Brown North America and Habitat engaging and creative way that they propel clients to make for Humanity, TNS Poland and Precious Gift Program.
But the week also highlighted two things: Having a work environment in which talented passionate All the projects we saw had adequate funding but there people can develop and succeed and be rewarded appropriately.
was a huge difference in the effectiveness and value delivered Growing our revenues ahead of the market while between them, stemming from one factor: the motivation, improving our margins.
determination and vision of the individuals driving them.
As Stan Sthanunathan, VP marketing strategy and insights at Coca-Cola put it recently: It is not about following the change as quickly as possible.
It is about helping companies to shape that change.
Focus on creating the future, not predicting it.
With that ambition in mind, how did we do in 2009?
Inspiring clients Data quality The quality of our data is a core foundation of both our survey research and syndicated outputs and a prerequisite to adding value to clients.
Kantar Media launched the new BARB panel in the UK with incredible skill and professionalism.
Never before have we seen such a smooth transition to a new TV measurement system which has benefited media owners, clients and agencies.
The unit also won the Turkish TV measurement contract and the Norwegian internet contract and retained the business in markets as diverse as Israel, Slovakia and Poland.
In all of these markets, accuracy of ratings and innovation designed to deal with fragmentation of viewing and listening habits are critical and it is gratifying to be recognised through commercial success.
Formerly known as Information, Insight & Consultancy.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 57 How were doing Consumer Insight David Geiger, Ceo, Center Partners, Sharon Potter, Ceo, Integration Kantar operations, Josep Montserrat, Ceo, Kantar Worldpanel, Thomas Puliyel, Ceo president, IMrB, Janine Hawkins, Ceo, Our clients want to be able to join up the dots, to integrate Added Value, David Day, Ceo, lightspeed research above sources of insight, to follow consumers round the web while ensuring their privacy, to make more of what they already have.
Combining survey and behavioural sources of insight is a critical part of our strategy as is fusing streams of insights This emphasis was replicated in many other areas such as for the benefit of clients.
Clients rightly want to make more our social and polling and consumer panel businesses.
TNS of what they have got and the opportunities afforded by Infratest was the most accurate pollster in seven out of eight working with specialist businesses across Kantar are huge.
of the federal and state elections which occurred in Germany In this respect 2009 marked a year of huge progress.
TNS retained the prestigious Eurobarometer Clients such as Kellogg and France Telecom benefited contract, with the client well known for the importance it from incorporating TNSs Needscope segmentation into the attached to data quality.
And Kantar Worldpanel is in the tracking they do with Millward Brown: Kantar Retail and process of rolling out bigger samples in Thailand, Spain, Compete a Kantar Media company came together to launch Portugal and most ambitiously China, where we are moving a solution which measures the impact of online campaigns from a 17,000 paper and pencil sample to a 40,000 electronic on offline purchases: Kantar Media and Millward Brown scanning one.
Not for the sake of it but because it enables Dynamic Logic combined digital online advertising our clients to plan and predict with greater impact.
effectiveness and social media and online behaviour tools Innovation and quality, hand-in-hand.
to help clients link behaviour and marketing effectiveness: On the survey side, we recognise the issues involved Millward Brown launched a tool to measure and predict in online data collection and respondent co-operation and the effectiveness of viral video on brand equity and further the importance which clients such as Procter & Gamble, enhanced their cross-media offer to enable better media Coca-Cola, Microsoft and others attach to it.
Our InTouch allocation decisions to be taken: we are clickstream-enabling initiative has pioneered ways in which online surveys can our internet access panels in five markets around the world be made shorter, more engaging and simpler to understand: so that clients can carry out surveys and understand the Lightspeed RealRespondents delivers real-time quality checks digital behaviour of the consumers they are surveying: are and is being rolled out globally: and we have partnered working with GroupM and 24 7 Real Media to improve the with competitors and through the Advertising Research quality of media targeting: and we are in the process of Foundation to ensure that appropriate cross-company-panel launching a new offer to measure viewing of online video.
overlaps and exclusions are dealt with.
The recruitment of Kim Dedeker, formerly head of Procter & Gambles worldwide research function and of Efrain Ribero, COO, Lightspeed Research, are evidence of our desire to lead the industry in this area.
