What we think After the threat of apocalypse, new centres of gravity although all had the same proportional impact on WPP, Google: signs of mortality?
With enough investment, we can reproduce any of the Googles success is clear and its economic power substantial.
media planning and buying technology developed and have It has a market capitalisation, despite recent volatility, of already accessed search revenues effectively.
Unlike most $180 billion, projected 2010 revenues of around $22 billion, media owners, we are not investing in a single technology approximately 20,000 people and growing, and 65 offices.
We are purveyors of any and The stock markets are saying something about Googles all media investment alternatives and, as long as we are not valuation in relation to our own $14 billion valuation, with excluded from any single, powerful technology and have approximately 60% of the revenues at $14 billion and nearly the talent to analyse and optimize these alternatives for our 100,000 people excluding associates in over 2,000 offices.
clients, we will remain not only relevant but increasingly Put together the four largest communications services valuable to them.
In contrast, media owners, unless they parent or holding companies WPP, Omnicom, IPG and cover the media waterfront, are exposed to one technology Publicis.
You will have approximately $37 billion of revenues or another.
Increasingly, our business is about combining the and a $38 billion market capitalisation almost twice the full range of our marketing and communications creativity, revenue of Google, but only a 21% of the market value.
insights and skills with the application of technology and the So is Google a frienemy or froe?
On the amicable side, mastery of data.
we are forecast to spend approximately $850 million this Warren Buffett used to say in the 1970s, when he invested year the Dell and AT&T search accounts are the third and directly in IPG and Ogilvy at three times earnings, that fourth largest after eBay and Amazon.
That tells you a little agencies represented a royalty on the international growth about the nature of Googles business.
Normally our media of US-based multinationals.
Perhaps today, parent company market share, according to RECMA, the independent investment also represents a royalty on the growth of new organisation that measures scale and capabilities in the media technologies.
With Google it is around 5%, indicating a long tail and a heavy smalland mediumsized business-to-business connection.
In a sense, Google is The web brain drain a mechanical Yellow Pages opening up advertising to smalland medium-sized companies that did not advertise before.
The internet and other new technologies will affect another In any event, Google clearly wants to work with us on area recruitment.
Young, bright talent will always seek out building relationships with our biggest clients.
We have run new, flexible, un-bureaucratic, responsive companies.
Staying joint seminars on both sides of the Atlantic for some of our with one company for 40 years or so as my father did and largest and most important clients to try to nurture mutual my parents advised me to do no longer seems the best relationships and are building joint sales programs with a career choice.
Clearly, the era of apprenticeship inside large Google sales team designed specially for us.
We have also corporations is finished.
It was weakened by the corporate initiated, with Google, Harvard Business School and MIT, downsizing of the 1980s and 1990s, the final nail in the a $5 million yearly research program on the effectiveness coffin coming with the internet boom of the late 1990s.
of advertising on the internet.
However, some recent polling and attitudinal analysis There is no doubt that Google has become friendlier as in the UK shows younger people want a better work-life it has focused its business in the teeth of the recession and balance.
Hedge funds, for instance, have until recently renewed its efforts on the digital areas, where it draws its proved more attractive than investment banks, offering fixed strength rather than the traditional media areas, where it work times and not demanding all-night toil, while making massive trades.
After the bankruptcies and failures of Web 1.0, many US website trafc % of total visitors young people returned to the more traditional businesses they had left.
WPP lost a number of such bright talents and 8 Google later welcomed some back to the fold.
I conducted re-entry Facebook interviews, and hoped to hear that the returnees were 6 relieved to have their jobs back.
Far from it: few grovelled.
4 Worse, they admitted that given the opportunity again, they would take it or seize a similar one.
And recently, in the last 2 year or two, with the emergence of the second internet boom, 0 it is clear there is another wave of bright, young people 2008 2009 2010 attracted to new technologies and opportunities within Source: experian Hitwise those companies.
