How were doing Public relations & Public Affairs Cohn & Wolfe is also parent to two specialty agencies, Burson-Marsteller GCI Health and AxiCom.
GCI Health has earned a Full report on page 64 reputation as one of the foremost healthcare communications agencies, adept at the key elements of health communications: Burson-Marsteller navigated the difficult waters of 2009 crisis management, digital health strategy, high-science by delivering its second-highest revenue since the dot-com communications and ROI-generating product marketing boom and its greatest profit and margin in its history.
AxiCom, our recently acquired This performance followed 2008 when the firm had set European technology agency, had a very successful 2009 the previous record on all key metrics.
During 2009, we underscored by a high-profile expansion in the US.
Enfaticos experienced only a low single-digit setback in revenue.
public relations division rebranded to become AxiCom US, creating a global communications firm under the AxiCom brand.
It continues to serve as the global PR agency of Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide record for Dell, as well as other blue-chip technology and Full report on page 65 telecommunications companies.
After a full year as the new Cohn & Wolfe, we are poised In a year considered the worst for communications since to capitalize on key opportunities in the digital landscape 2001, Ogilvy PR drew upon its highly-diversified, global and leverage our expertise with chief marketing officers network to deliver solid results.
While some of its more than who want and understand the value of brand-building public 80 offices around the world were hit hard, others soared to relations.
We continue to impress clients and prospects with record profits, reinforcing the strength of a genuine network our creative programming, insights and nimbleness as an with broad-reaching, yet deep local roots.
Our entrepreneurial culture allows us to transform with the communications environment and meet ever-changing and more demanding client needs.
2010 is going to be a very good year for Cohn & Wolfe.
