Who runs WPP How we behave Non-executive chairman Corporate governance Philip Lader The Board of Directors as a whole is collectively accountable Chairman of the Nomination Committee to the Companys share owners for good corporate governance Member of the Compensation Committee and is committed to achieving compliance with the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code.
Executive directors Our goal is to comply with relevant laws, regulations, and guidelines such as the Combined Code, the US SarbanesSir Martin Sorrell Oxley Act 2002, the NASDAQ rules and, where practicable, Chief executive with the guidelines issued by institutional investors and their Paul Richardson representative bodies.
Finance director WPP operates a system of internal control, which is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Mark Read Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as the Strategy director relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934 and Chief executive, WPP Digital related SEC rules, as they currently apply to the Company.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied Non-executive directors throughout the year with the Combined Code, the Turnbull Report and also with the relevant provisions of the Securities Colin Day Member of the Audit Committee Exchange Act 1934 and SEC rules.
Esther Dyson Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination Committee Corporate responsibility Orit Gadiesh WPPs Corporate Responsibility Committee, which is Member of the Nomination Committee chaired by Paul Richardson, advises on policy, monitors David Komansky regrettably retired 6 February 2009 emerging issues and co-ordinates communication among Stanley Bud Morten Group companies.
WPPs five most significant corporate Senior independent director until April 2010 responsibility issues are: Koichiro Naganuma The social and environmental impact of our work Lubna Olayan for clients.
Member of the Nomination Committee The impact of our work, including marketing ethics, John Quelch compliance with marketing standards, protection of personal, consumer and corporate data and increasing Jeffrey Rosen Chairman of the Compensation Committee transparency about our marketing practices.
Member of the Audit Committee Employment, including diversity and equal opportunities, Senior independent director from April 2010 business ethics, employee development, remuneration, communication and health and safety.
In 2009, WPP invested Timothy Shriver Member of the Audit Committee 39.9 million 2008: 42.6 million in training and wellbeing across the Group.
Paul Spencer Social investment, including pro bono work, donations Chairman of the Audit Committee to charity and employee volunteering.
In 2009, our total social investment was worth 14.9 million 2008: 14.6 Members of the Advisory Board million, equivalent to 2.2% of reported profit before tax.
Jeremy Bullmore This includes 10.8 million in pro bono work based on the fees the benefiting organisations would have paid for John Jackson our work and 4.1 million in donations.
Richard Rivers Climate change, including the emissions from energy used in our offices and during business travel.
Company Secretary Full details of our governance policies and practices, and our corporate Marie Capes responsibility activities, can be found on pages 109 to 131.
Directors biographies appear on pages 104 to 106.
