How were doing Media Investment Management MEC Despite all the challenges we faced, MEC had cause to celebrate major successes around the network.
Report by Charles Courtier below Overall we added approximately $1 billion in new billings Chief executive officer in 2009.
The roll-call of wins is long but to name a few: we won Mercedes Benz in Germany: Lloyds Banking Group in Our business, our clients business and the industry were the UK: Toyota in Argentina: Activision Blizzard: Singapore under tremendous pressure in 2009.
Much of that pressure Tourism and Singapore Airlines globally: Telkomsel in was shouldered by our people across MEC and we had to go Indonesia: retained IKEA in a number of markets, including the extra mile in so many ways.
We have pitched, defended, Sweden and China: and we retained Danone in the UK and re-structured, re-planned, re-negotiated and carried a Turkey and won it in Russia and Mexico.
massive extra workloadin many cases, just to stand still.
We made good progress in delivering an integrated It was tough.
product, with specialists working together to deliver seamless and compelling campaigns for our clients.
And this was reflected locally with some stunning industry accolades in the UK which made a clean sweep of all the Agency of the Year titles, in Poland named Digital Agency of the Year among others and we were named Agency of the Year in Italy and Hungary.
We also racked up some great awards for our work, demonstrating how we add real value to our clients business.
Lets Grow for Morrisons from MEC London was our stand-out work of 2009, winning a Cannes Lion and the IPA Effectiveness Grand Prix.
With a renewed focus on growth.
In this marketplace, sourcing growth is paramount.
This is not just about new business but ensuring that we develop the fastest-growing markets and help our clients drive their business back to growth.
We are defining our future ambition for a new decade and ensuring we have the right organizational structure to deliver it.
We must be digitally-led, commercially fit, clientcentric and deliver an integrated product as One MEC.
This is why we expanded our global management roles by naming Mel Varley as our chief strategy officer, Caroline Foster Kenny our chief client officer and Alastair Aird added the role of chairman EMEA to his COO duties.
The acceleration of our digital and data capabilities is clearly crucial to our future.
We have developed significantly here, but the need to invest and prioritize our front-end capabilities especially search SEO, social media and performance continues unabated.
For most of us it is not a year we would want to repeat.
Keeping up with this pace of change means our business And we dont plan to.
But I am very proud of how our has an insatiable appetite for new skills and talent.
We need people dealt with the difficulties of 2009.
I thank them a talent strategy that matches this ambition: one that develops wholeheartedly for all their efforts, the extra work, and trains new digital, analytics and insight skills for the difficult decisions, their patience and perseverance.
Whilst I dont think that 2010 is going to be easy, I am Weve come through a very turbulent year in good shape certain that it will be a much better year than 2009. for the future.
Already the early signs show a much improved Understanding there is a long way to go, I believe the outlook across all parts of our business.
