How were doing letter to share owners rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from in procurement people, processes and technology, our goal is elsewhere.
This is going to be a key strategic priority for us.
to maintain the ratio of bought-in costs to revenue at around Our competition is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating 15%, by leveraging Group scale across all of our major and rewarding performance for example, taking advantage markets, and focusing on those expenditure categories most of sharp falls in share prices to re-price or issue options favourable for global, regional and local supply contracts, or giving limited disclosure to investors of compensation such as in IT, telecoms, travel, professional services, facilities plan details.
Communications IT A communications services company must be a model of In IT we continue to consolidate our core technology excellent external and internal communications.
To that infrastructure with the objectives of reducing cost and end, we accelerate understanding of the Groups vast improving quality.
This enables our operating companies resources with a raft of regular communications through to concentrate their efforts on client-related developments our websites and in print: our monthly public online news and other internal business-focused applications.
bulletin, e. wire: our consistently award-winning global The convergence of mobile, voice and data communications newspaper, The WIRE: our annual Atticus Journal of has allowed us to take advantage of new offerings in the original marketing thinking: the WPP Reading Room, an telecommunications sector to drive efficiencies and to provide extensive online library of thinkpieces both public and enhanced support to our increasingly mobile workforce.
original from WPP professionals worldwide: our online FactFiles profiling Group resources companies products: our annual Corporate Responsibility Report and this consistently Practice development award-winning Annual Report.
Finally, in practice development we continue to develop horizontal initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas Property management across our vertical operating brands: in media, healthcare, new technologies, new faster-growing markets, internal 2009 was a difficult year with our property portfolio, but we communications, retail, entertainment and media, financial were able to reduce it by 4% to 23.7 million sq ft: this was in services, hi-tech and telecommunications and corporate the context of revenue down 8% and staff numbers during responsibility.
Specifically, we continue to invest in sharing the year down 12.3%.
It was not possible to adjust the insights and developing initiatives through WPP Digital in property portfolio in line with the recession and, as a result, digital marketing and media and The Store in distribution average square foot per head is up from 218 sq ft in 2008 to and retail.
230 sq ft in 2009 and establishment cost-to-revenue ratio is In key geographic markets we are increasingly coup from 6.9% to 8.0%, effectively back, unfortunately, at the ordinating our activities through WPP Country Managers.
relative levels of 2002 and 2003, albeit with a bigger business We continue to believe that increasing co-ordination is following the acquisitions, for example, of Grey and TNS.
required between our brands at the country and global levels, Our key property task over the next three years is to as the arguments for investment in regional management manage the portfolio to bring these ratios back into line become weaker.
As experience has demonstrated, however, and return to our medium-term objective of 7% for the the activities of Country Managers must be closely aligned establishment cost-to-revenue ratio.
We will achieve this by and monitored.
In addition, we are increasing the number using the upcoming lease breaks to reduce space and to take of WPP Global Client Leaders to co-ordinate our efforts on advantage of the current market to negotiate better terms on behalf of clients and to ensure they get maximum benefit any lease extensions.
from their relationships with WPP operating brands.
We are focused currently on our top 30 global clients accounting for around a third of total revenues and where our revenues Procurement declined at less than 2.0% in 2009, much lower than the overall fall of 8.1%.
In procurement, we continue to set ourselves the goal of Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal strategic being the undisputed leader of procurement practice in the alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice development global advertising and marketing services industry.
initiatives have therefore been reinforced in such areas as We aim to benchmark ourselves regularly against our healthcare, retail, internal communications and media and competitors and our clients.
This has been especially important to develop 26 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
