How were doing Agency networks had a particularly strong fourth quarter giving us momentum with most of our long-term clients performed very well going into 2010. indeed, but the number of new business opportunities around Our Key Client Relationship KCR program, which is most of the world dropped dramatically.
comprised of our largest clients, continued to play its role The net result of all this is that, while our revenue and as a growth engine for the firm.
The program ended the operating profit were down on the previous year, we nevertheless year with positive year-over-year growth among our core weathered this recession better than most.
Indeed, despite KCR clients and with the new KCRs added to the mix the nature of the year, there has been much to celebrate.
the program grew even further.
In 2009, KCR clients It goes without saying that our success is built on the contributed over one-third of the companys global revenues.
shoulders of our client relationships and many of these Burson-Marsteller was again involved in some of the most moved forward significantly in 2009.
We improved our critical issues in 2009, including work for insurer AIG, which performance ratings with our largest client, Procter & faced communications issues related to employee relations, Gamble, in all five geographies where we were measured: media relations and communications with regulators.
The and we established a successful Asian hub for them in firm also participated in a WPP team that led Ford Motors Singapore to further strengthen our global partnership in communications during one of the most difficult years for the the region.
In return, we were rewarded with a solid year US auto industry.
Burson-Marsteller also continued work on and some terrific new brand assignments.
key initiatives for KCR clients like Intel, Hewlett-Packard, Our relationship with Kraft also went from strength to Huawei and Thomson Reuters.
strength, with multiple new appointments in the US and the During the second half of the year, new business opening of a new relationship in Greater China.
opportunities from both new and existing clients were We had a record year alongside Diageo, too, being appointed developing at a steady pace.
In the US, against a highly to no less than 10 new brand responsibilities in the year.
competitive field, the Washington DC Issues & Crisis Group Finally, after years of pace-setting performance supporting won a significant assignment from Microsoft.
The Bursonthe Coors brand, I am delighted to say that we have been Marsteller LatAm region developed a new digital campaign appointed agency of record on the Miller brand portfolio.
for Visa Debit that will appear in Latin Americas largest There is nothing more important in our business markets.
It will be the first of its kind by Visa.
than the confidence of our clients.
But the opinion of our In Asia Pacific, Burson-Marsteller was appointed the peers comes a close second, as it is this that enables us to attract agency of record for Drager, one of the worlds leading the best talent around the world.
We had a good year on this companies for medical and safety technologies.
Our work collected two platinum and eight gold a Burson-Marsteller managing director, Clancey Houston, awards in the high profile Graphis competition: we upped our was selected by WPP and Ford to assume the role of Ford performance this year at the all important Cannes Awards: Team Leader for Asia Pacific.
and we carried away an impressively high number of this years In EMEA, Burson-Marsteller won a major contract for WPP Atticus Awards for thought leadership.
the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup Bid.
The Holmes Report The combination of the ongoing support of our key recognized our superior public affairs capabilities in EMEA clients, the undoubted quality of our creative performance, by naming us Public Affairs Consultancy of the Year in and the increasing recognition of our thought leadership are the region.
a source of enormous pride for me.
More importantly, they As we head into 2010, we are confident that our new give me confidence that we are well placed to move forward business pipeline, strong client relationships and overall as the market for our services picks up.
corporate strategy will contribute to another year of progress.
Landor Associates Report by Charlie Wrench right Chief executive officer Our performance in 2009 differed dramatically, depending from where you viewed it.
In the US, Landors all-important financial engine, our margins were quite exceptional.
But we were patchy in Europe where the recession hurt us.
We were Marketing magazines Branding Agency of the Year in Greater China, but we suffered in the Middle East where the market for our services was undermined by events in Dubai.
Our business WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 43
