How were doing Agency networks United Network Report by Ewen Cameron right Chief executive officer and Laurence Mellman Chief operating officer Despite a tough economic climate in every market in which we operate, 2009 saw some real progress for individual agencies in our group.
In Italy, 1861 United had a banner year for new business, winning Lexus and Diners Club and consolidating more prestigious assignments from their core clients Sky, Vodafone and IKEA.
1861 also continued to dominate domestic creative awards and build an increasingly international creative reputation.
Our French agency, Les Ouvriers du Paradis United, won the global branding assignment for Japanese brand Seiko Watches.
In Spain, one of the markets worst hit by the global recession, Sra Rushmore had another great year, winning major assignments from Visa, CEPSA, El Corte Ingles and RENFE Spanish Railways amongst others and consolidating Big complex clients need small nimble creative agencies, to tackle the fast-moving problems in todays markets its role as a global anchor agency for clients such as CocaCola, Diageo and Telefonica.
The continued outstanding As the recessionary grip seems to be subsiding globally we performance of Sra Rushmore and the excellence of its are already seeing great signs of promise for 2010 in our creative work was recognized with the agency being named first-quarter new business activity.
Agency of the Decade by industry publication El Publicista.
In the US, budget cuts at clients were matched with fast and decisive action by management so, while revenues contracted, profits held up well.
Berlin Cameron United continued to grow its high profile Comcast business, added a major national brand-building assignment for internet phenomenon Amazon.
com and provided a strong creative resource for Group client Ford Motor Company.
Cole & Weber United launched a very successful campaign for the International Olympic Committee that was universally admired and built an online challenge campaign to activate the youth of the world around the Olympics which after three months had accrued over three million interactions from over 200 countries.
So, as we launch ourselves into 2010 with great energy and enthusiasm, we do so with the confidence that despite very real challenges, 2009 bore out our core belief that big complex clients need small nimble creative agencies to tackle the fast-moving problems in todays markets.
