How were doing letter to share owners Guangzhou, the FIFA World Cup in South Africa, the IPL Revised margin objectives cricket league and Commonwealth Games, both in India, the World Expo in Shanghai and last, but not least, the mid-term Operating margins for 2010 are targeted to rise by one Congressional elections in the US, all of which should, on margin point to 12.7%.
The operating margin target for the basis of past experience, add approximately 1 percentage 2011 has initially been set at 13.2%.
In the longer term, point to industry growth rates.
we continue to believe we can improve our operating margin Our budgets for 2010 indicate flat like-for-like revenue to 18%.
This is challenging, of course, but not so outrageous growth, with a mildly weaker first-half and stronger as some believe, given that our best performing companies second-half.
The second quarter shows like-for-like top line in each services sector have already demonstrated they can growth a budgeted return to growth for the first time in perform at a combined Group margin of 17%.
six quarters, although the second quarter of 2009 is the weakest comparator.
GroupM forecasts that global advertising spending which impacts approximately 39% The longer term of the Groups revenues will rise by 0.8% in 2010 versus a 6.6% fall in 2009.
GroupM also forecasts that marketing Worries continue about how and when governments and spending, broadly the other 61% of WPP, will fall by 2% central banks will withdraw the considerable fiscal and in 2010 against an 8% fall in 2009.
On these forecasts, monetary post-Lehman stimulus, as well as the likely impact.
flat revenues would mean increased market share.
These already approximate to $13 trillion or approximately Geographically, there are relatively brighter spots 20% of worldwide GDP of $64 trillion.
Withdrawal of the budgeted in Asia Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East automotive Cash for Clunkers stimulus in North America and Africa, reflecting the continued relative strength of the reduced demand for cars and trucks in the US from an BRIC and Next 11 markets.
Central and Eastern Europe, annualised level of 14 million units to 10 million units.
as a whole, remains relatively flat, with Russia recovering as This should serve as a warning.
At $60-70 per barrel, the Russian economy The more interesting question, probably, is how the West, works.
Western Continental Europe is budgeted to be in particular, will emerge from the current crisis and reduce relatively weak, with France, Germany and Spain still the colossal government deficit needed to fund the early stage challenged.
The UK is budgeted flat although there are of the recovery.
There seem to be two possible routes.
First, post-election concerns, with the US showing a little growth.
the more prudent and painful reduce government spending, Latin America remains the healthiest region.
increase taxes and unemployment and learn to save again, All sectors, other than Advertising and Media Investment with the risk of a double-dip.
Secondly, inflate our way out Management, are budgeted to grow at a modest rate in 2010. of the problem and continue to spend and lend, with likely Advertising remains challenged by clients continued significant resultant increases in inflation and long-term demands for efficiency, particularly in mature markets.
The UK election, for example, is being fought Media Investment Management is budgeted to recover in on these issues.
2010, with growth reinforced by very significant new Given the politically unpleasant implications of the first business wins so far this year.
route and the proximity of elections, the second course is Incentive plans for 2010 will place increased emphasis more likely.
As a result, those countries that are capital on revenue growth and improvement in operating margins rich and have saved like Brazil, China, India, Japan and in conjunction with operating profit growth, although eventually, with strong oil prices, Russia will benefit even objectives will continue to include improvements in staff more.
And the Groups strategic focus on the BRICs and costs-to-revenue ratios and qualitative Group objectives, Next 11, on the new media and on consumer insight will including Group co-ordination and co-operation, talent benefit accordingly.
In any event, consumers and clients exhibit continued At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data caution consumers concerned about high levels of for the first three months of 2010.
Like-for-like revenues unemployment and clients continually conservative in a for the first quarter were flat on the first quarter of 2009, low-growth environment, achieving lowered market profit indicating an encouraging return to stability.
This was expectations, by getting there ugly by cutting costs first evident in November 2009, when revenue trends were and focusing on efficiency.
Sadly, the fact that you cannot markedly less worse than before.
Although this return cost-cut your way to prosperity has not been accepted to stability seems widespread both geographically and as yet.
Long-term growth depends on brand-building functionally, there is no marked growth as yet, even and revenue growth.
Promote on price and you create against weak comparatives, although the US did show commodities.
Innovate and differentiate, you create brands an encouraging return to growth in the first three months.
and the right to demand a premium from the consumer.
Operating profits for these three Maybe the change we have seen in the first three months months were also better than budgeted.
of 2010 signals first, the end of the post-Lehman cost and 22 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
