How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom own clients.
We received a number of these in 2009 including Global Supplier of the Year marketing services for the third Report by Stephen Allan below consecutive time, from one of our key clients, VW Group.
Chief executive officer We also now rank No.
1 globally in RECMAs reports for integrated interaction services.
With the way the media 2009, my first full year as CEO of MediaCom Worldwide, landscape is changing, being No.
1 in Digital the fastestwas probably the most challenging year I can remember for growing medium is particularly pleasing.
One of our key aims in 2009 was to strengthen the Our team at MediaCom responded well to these network-ness of our network, to make us all feel more challenges and, despite the economic downturn, it was a joined up and I think weve made great strides in this area.
rewarding year, in which we made significant progress as We launched several internal communications initiatives, a network and also saw our hard work recognised by including Everyday, our first all-staff intranet, and our our biggest-ever haul of industry awards.
MediaCom was named Media Agency of the Year at The business environment in 2009 led a significant the International 2009 M&M Awards.
It is no exaggeration number of clients to review their agency partnerships.
to say that we dominated these awards, with 11 different We emerged from this activity with more than $1 billion campaigns being shortlisted across a total of 18 nominations.
in new client billings, across all of our regions and markets.
These figures showed not only our unrivalled position, but These included Allianz global, Universal Music 22 European also how widespread our award-winning work was across markets and Australia, Tele2 Scandinavia, Holland, Croatia different clients, different categories and different territories.
and Russia, Wyeth China, VW China, RWE Germany, Altogether in 2009 we won 150 awards around the SAS Sweden, DIRECTV US, Canon Australia, Burger network, including a Gold Lion at Cannes, four winners at the King Russia, Norsk Landbrukssamvirke Norway and Festival of Media and numerous awards at local and regional Revlon Canada.
award festivals around the world.
Again this speaks not of We also enlarged our relationship with other existing having a few hot shops, but of having a consistently high client businesses by securing their assignments in new standard of work across the globe.
A special mention must markets, such as Dell Latin America, EA Russia, and go to MediaCom UK who were named Media Agency of P&G Latin America and The Philippines.
Despite all the the Decade by Campaign magazine.
In addition to industry pitch mania that took place in the past year, we were able awards, it is always satisfying to receive recognition from our to retain all our major international global clients with the exception of Nokia, where we chose not to repitch for the account.
2009 was also about continued reorganisation.
This included new local CEO appointments in Argentina, Australia, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, Turkey and, more recently, Germany.
We also strengthened our regional and global capabilities with a variety of appointments including Paul Greenhalgh as global commercial director, and Christian Schmalzl, our former CEO in Germany, as chief operations and investment director.
Our strategy for 2010 can be summed up in one word, growth.
Already in the first few weeks of 2010 we have won, through our M4C collaboration with our GroupM sister agencies in the UK, the consolidated COI business, one of the largest media assignments ever awarded in the UK.
We were also delighted to share with Mindshare in the global win of Bayers consolidated media business.
This win will see us add significant billings and eight new markets to our existing assignments.
Other major new business wins so far in 2010 include Revlon US, PLAY Poland and the Shenzen Development Bank China.
I began by talking about the challenges of 2009.
My colleagues rose to the occasion with tenacity and courage.
They kept their heads and we grew the business.
I cant wait to see what we are capable of in better economic times.
