Who runs WPP Non-executive chairman Board of Directors Philip Lader Chairman of the Nomination Committee Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 64 Member of the Compensation Committee Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US Executive directors Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, he previously served in several senior executive roles in the Sir Martin Sorrell US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents Chief executive Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before Paul Richardson entering government service, he was executive vice president Finance director of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee holdings and president of both a prominent American real Mark Read estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
Strategy director A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, Chief executive, WPP Digital a director of Marathon Oil, AES and Rusal Corporations, a trustee of RAND Corporation, the Smithsonian Museum Non-executive directors of American History and the Atlantic Council and a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
Colin Day Member of the Audit Committee Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 65 Esther Dyson Member of the Compensation Committee and Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, Nomination Committee becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
He is a Orit Gadiesh non-executive director of Formula One and Asatsu-DK Inc.
Member of the Nomination Committee msorrell@wpp.
com David Komansky retired 6 February 2009 Stanley Bud Morten Paul Richardson Finance director Age 52 Senior independent director until April 2010 Koichiro Naganuma Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in Lubna Olayan 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
Member of the Nomination Committee He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, property, John Quelch treasury, taxation, internal audit and corporate responsibility.
Jeffrey Rosen He is also the Country Manager for Italy.
Chairman of the Compensation Committee He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association Member of the Audit Committee Senior independent director from April 2010 of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a non-executive director of CEVA Group plc, Chime Communications PLC and STW Timothy Shriver Communications Group Limited in Australia, the last two being Member of the Audit Committee companies associated with the Group prichardson@wpp.
com Paul Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee Mark Read Strategy director and CEO, WPP Digital Age 43 Members of the Advisory Board Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002 and is also chief Jeremy Bullmore executive of WPP Digital.
He is a member of the Supervisory John Jackson Board of HighCo and a director of CHI & Partners.
He Richard Rivers worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining Company Secretary WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy firm of Booz-Allen & Hamilton and founded and developed Marie Capes the company WebRewards in the UK mread@wpp.
com 104 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Colin Day Non-executive director Age 55 David H. Komansky Non-executive director Age 70 Colin Day was appointed a director in July 2005.
He is David Komansky was appointed a director in January group finance director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, having 2003 and retired on 6 February 2009.
He was chairman been appointed to its board in September 2000 and became of the Board of Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc, serving until his a non-executive director of Cadbury plc in December 2008. retirement on 28 April 2003.
He served as chief executive Prior to joining Reckitt Benckiser he was group finance officer from 1996 to 2002, having begun his career at director of Aegis Group plc and previously held a number Merrill Lynch in 1968. of senior finance positions with ABB Group plc and fide La Among many professional affiliations, he serves as Rue Group plc.
He was a non-executive director of Imperial a director of Black Rock, Inc. and as a member of the Tobacco plc until February 2007 and of easyJet plc until International Advisory Board of the British American 30 September 2005. Business Council.
Active in many civic and charitable organisations, he serves on the Board of the New York Esther Dyson Non-executive director Age 58 Presbyterian Hospital.
Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
In 2004 she Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive director Age 66 sold her company, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, the US-based interactive media company now owned by Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
She left CNET at the end of 2006 and now operates a consultant, private investor and one of the five public as an independent investor and writer, again under the name members of the Investment Advisory Council of the State of EDventure.
She has been highly influential for the past of Connecticut.
From 2003 to 2009 he was the Independent 20 years on the basis of her insights into online information Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with responsibility technology markets and their social impact worldwide, for its independent research requirements.
including the emerging markets of Central and Eastern Previously he was the chief operating officer of Punk, Europe and Asia.
Ziegel & Co, a New York investment banking firm with An active investor, she participated in the sale of Flickr to a focus on the healthcare and technology industries.
and of Medstory to Microsoft.
She sits on the boards that he was the managing director of the equity division of non-listed start-ups including Boxbe US, Evernote US, of Wertheim Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a 23andMe US, Airship Ventures US, Eventful.
com US, former non-executive director of Register.
US, NewspaperDirect Canada, Voxiva US was sold to a private equity firm in November 2005. and Yandex Russia.
She is also active in public affairs and He is also a non-executive director of The Motley Fool, was founding chairman of ICANN, the domain name policy Inc. and of Darien Rowayton Bank, both of which are agency, from 1998 to 2000.
She currently sits on the board private companies.
of the Sunlight Foundation, which advocates transparency in government: StopBadware.
org, an anti-malware group: Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive director Age 65 and PersonalGenome.
She is also a member of the NASA Advisory Council and Chairman of its Technology and Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February Innovation Committee.
He is Chairman and group chief executive officer of Asatsu-DK Inc. also known as ADK.
Joining the agency in Orit Gadiesh Non-executive director Age 59 1981, he began his career with the account service of global clients in the agency.
His mandate thereafter expanded to Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is the total operation of the group.
chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a world-renowned ADK is Japans third largest advertising and expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds an communications company, and 10th largest in the world.
MBA from Harvard Business School and was a Baker Scholar.
She is a member of the International Advisory Board at Haute Ecole Commerciale in France, as well as a member of the Foundation Board for the World Economic Forum and the Board of Directors of The Peres Institute for Peace.
She is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, and a trustee for Eisenhower Fellowships.
WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 105 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Lubna Olayan Non-executive director Age 54 Timothy Tim Shriver Non-executive director Age 50 Lubna Olayan was appointed a director in March 2005.
Tim Shriver was appointed a director in August 2007.
He is Ms Olayan is the deputy chairman and chief executive officer Chairman and CEO of Special Olympics, serving over three of the Olayan Financing Company, a subsidiary and the holding million Special Olympic athletes and their families in 180 entity for the Olayan Groups operations in the Kingdom countries.
In recent years, he has produced films for Disney, of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
Dream Works and Fox Searchlight and Hallmark Hall of Ms Olayan is a Board Member of Saudi Hollandi Bank, Fame.
Since January 2007 he has been writing a column for a publicly listed company in Saudi Arabia.
She is on the The Washington Post Newsweek.
International Advisory Board of the Council on Foreign He co-founded the Collaborative for Academic, Social Relations, a member of the Board of Directors of INSEAD and Emotional Learning CASEL and currently chairs the and a member of the Board of Trustees of Cornell University CASEL Board.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign and KAUST King Abdullah University of Science & Relations and is also a non-executive director of the Malaria Technology.
Ms Olayan joined the International Advisory No More, Neogenix Oncology, and he is the founder and Board of Rolls-Royce in October 2006 and Akbank President of the Center for Interface Action on Global International Advisory Board in April 2009.
He serves on the advisory committee of Main Street Advisors and Leeds Equity.
John Quelch Non-executive director Age 58 Paul Spencer Non-executive director Age 60 John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is the Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Administration at Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004.
Between 1998 and 2001 he was He is a financier with 20 years experience in the financial Dean of the London Business School.
From 2001 to 2009, management of a number of blue chip companies, including he was also a senior associate dean at Harvard Business British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and School.
He has served since 2002 as chairman of the Royal & Sun Alliance PLC.
He is the honorary counsel Paul has held a number of non-executive directorships general of the Kingdom of Morocco in New England and including until 2009 Chairman of NS and I National honorary chairman of the British American Business Council Savings.
He is currently Chairman of State Street Managed of New England.
He is also a member of the Council on Pension Funds and chairs audit at TR Property Investment Foreign Relations.
He is the independent Trustee of the BAT, BT, Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business BA and Rolls-Royce Pension Funds.
In the 2010 Honours practice in emerging as well as developed markets, he was awarded a CBE for services to the financial services international marketing and the role of the multinational industry.
Paul is a governor of the charity Motability.
corporation and the nation state.
He is a non-executive director of Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc.
He served previously on the boards of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc, Pepsi Bottling Group and Reebok International Limited.
Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 62 Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004.
He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard.
He has over 30 years experience in international investment banking and corporate finance.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and is President of the Board of Trustees of the International Center of Photography in New York.
