How were doing Agency networks Ogilvy Group work breaks new ground in many ways, building a digitallyenabled system of content which roots communication Ogilvy & Mather at the center and not at the periphery of the companys value system.
Report by Miles Young below Coca-Cola was our fastest-growing client in 2009, Chief executive officer awarding us multiple assignments, at the center and in markets around the world.
Our work for them is fresh and at the edge of cultural insight and expression.
In 2009 we appointed new leaders who are writing Ogilvys next chapter.
Tham Khai Meng moved from Singapore to our global headquarters in New York to take on the role of worldwide creative director: we share the same office.
Gloria Gibbons and Donna Tuths were appointed joint worldwide CEOs of Ogilvy Healthworld.
Chris Graves stepped into Marcia Silvermans role as CEO of Ogilvy Public Relations in January 2010, while Marcia Silverman took on the new role of chair.
PRWeek named Ogilvy PR as an agency to watch in 2010, citing that Chris Graves will lead the firm into a new era that can provide integrated programs for global clients who need them.
John Shaw and Colin Mitchell were named joint worldwide planning directors, and Tim Broadbent was appointed effectiveness director.
Marie Claire Barker was named chief talent officer.
John Seifert now runs Ogilvy North America.
Carla Hendra is heading up our new Global Strategy & Innovation Practice.
Gustavo Martinez relocated from Mexico to I subscribe to the Chinese view that crisis spells New York to be our first global new business director.
opportunity: and that when the going gets tough, What is gratifying is that none of these leaders is new to the tough get going.
They have continuity and carry on our culture, It put into relief the basic reason we are in business to even as we gain from their new energy and insight.
produce superb work for our clients which is outstandingly People are the only important asset in this industry.
effective great work that works.
Sometimes, years of And now, more than ever, our business requires people who growth dull the edges of such simplicity.
But driven by really understand integration, who get the new paradigms this mantra, we spent the year laying the groundwork of content that are emerging, and who have experience in for a formidable bounce back.
Fortunately, as a 360 degree agency, Despite all the circumstances, we showed that we were we have a very high share of these people.
But in the past a feisty business with winning ways.
In this industry there year we managed to attract and hire additional world-class was just one large global pitch in 2009, for UPS.
We won senior talent in management, in creative, in digital and in this business in September, the culmination of months strategic planning in particular who will help us drive the of effort.
We are proud to have a brand like UPS, with business forward.
a wonderful heritage and an ambitious future, join our Around the world, we approached the recession portfolio of clients.
proactively by responding with targeted new offerings.
One of the reasons for this success is that our 360 Launched in 2008, our Recession Marketing Practice business model offering deep integration at a strategic continued to give practical counsel to our clients on how level was able to leverage creative, planning, digital, best to cope as the recession gathered force in 2009, and analytical, and executional assets in a way which helped them plan for recovery: and its publications have been addressed the deeper business problem, not just a praised for establishing industry leadership in this area.
By the end of the year our We launched OgilvyEarth, a first-of-its-kind global North American business triumphed in two other major sustainability practice.
It is driven by an outstanding pitches for CDW and Citizens Bank.
In each case, the team from around the world, representing advertising, same lessons applied.
public relations, interactive, activation, entertainment Two other clients deserve special mention in 2009.
IBM, and other of our disciplines.
It has helped companies such thanks to its own visionary leadership, provided the platform as BP, Coca-Cola, DuPont, Qantas and Tetra Pak develop for the acclaimed Smarter Planet program.
This body of a vision of sustainability that drives business results.
