How were doing Agency networks and campaign management globally as many clients reduced In 2009, we answered our clients call about What do their workforce.
with a blend of innovation, pragmatism and Microsoft further consolidated its business with us.
In 2010, we stand poised to answer their call about Nokia ramped up at unprecedented speed in 52 markets, What do we do next?
Our power as a global agency delivering thousands of campaigns via digital production network, embedded with digital and data strength, will hubs in Russia, South Africa, Brazil and India.
Another in be the catalyst to our growth and success.
China will open this year.
Revenue in Latin America and Asia rose by double digits.
And we won some noteworthy new business, including Burson-Marsteller T-Mobile, SoCal Edison, Hotels.
com, BNP and Kraft, among others.
Although the last quarter of 2009 suggests Report by Mark Penn below the worst may be over, we remain very cautious.
We continue Worldwide chief executive officer to experience growth of digital and data assignments.
In addition, we can count on the footprint of our network and the diversity of our client base to generate further growth.
Our specialty companies give us digital depth and a diverse and robust digital marketing offering.
While each is fully interactive on its own and maintains its individuality it also carries a unique center of excellence, which can be tapped network-wide: Blast Radius social networking and technical backbone ZAAZ site-side optimization and analytics Designkitchen digital promotions These Days digital media integration Kassius mobile marketing Agenda, AquaOnline and ActisWunderman digital production.
This digital prowess is complemented by leadership in data analytics.
Today, neither can exist alone.
The uniqueness of digital marketing is the sheer volume of customer data it offers.
When real-time Burson-Marsteller navigated the difficult waters of 2009 information is backed by historic knowledge and directed by delivering its second-highest revenue since the dot-com at the customer, the result is powerful ideas that resonate.
boom and its greatest profit and margin in its history.
This Whether its Fords challenge to reignite customers love performance followed 2008 when the firm had set the previous affair with Mustang: Citis plea to get New Yorkers back record on all key metrics.
During 2009, we experienced only on their side despite the economic turmoil: or Southwest a low single-digit setback in revenue.
Airlines call to find a new form of media, Wunderman These results come after three years of momentum based turned insights into activation via fresh, bold ideas.
on the strategy of giving the firm new DIGS becoming more Digital, Integrated, Global and Strategic.
This is a strategy focused on modernizing the firms offerings to meet the state of the art in communications and PR in a changing world.
The firm launched the new Proof Integrated Communications brand as part of displaying its commitment to meeting the trends in online and offline issue and corporate advertising hand-in-hand with its traditional PR offerings.
And the firms integration with Penn, Schoen & Berlands research has led to the development and launching of Evidence-Based Communications a suite of new tools for helping guide the development and measurement of PR campaigns.
This year the firm focused on managing costs, providing great client service, and improving utilization of personnel.
While many clients reduced budgets in 2009, we did not lose a single significant client and others came in with new work David Sable above because of the economic crisis and Bursons reputation for Vice chairman and chief operating officer, Wunderman being a go-to firm for issues and crisis management.
