How were doing Branding & Identity The Brand Union In Asia Pacific, we began to grow again towards the end of the year following a number of structural changes.
Report by Simon Bolton below Monica Lee has returned to run our China operations.
Worldwide chief executive officer Graham Hitchmough has been promoted to lead our South East Asia hub in Singapore.
In India, our business, As expected, and in common with our industry, 2009 proved led by Sujata Keshavan founder and executive chairman, to be a challenging year for The Brand Union.
We wrestled had a record year, crowned by a GlaxoSmithKline win to with two specific issues: a reduction in corporateand re-launch one of the sub-continents favourite brands.
M&A-led assignments off the back of the travails of the We have also made changes in the management line up global financial market and the erosion of client activity in our regional businesses led from Johannesburg for the in the emerging markets both of which provided major African continent and Dubai for the UAE and Middle impetus for the companys growth trajectory during the East region.
At the time of going to press, we are pleased to announce However, I can report that The Brand Union responded that we are setting up a service office in Moscow to look positively to these challenges.
We successfully stabilised after the burgeoning needs of major clients such as Henkel our business and adapted our offer and services to the new and Pernod Ricard.
As a result, we had a stronger second half in 2009 and outperformed many of our competitors.
Everystone Consulting Network development Our upstream consulting offer, Everystone, led by Crispin Jameson and Erik Tillberg, also performed well, securing In May we were able to announce a significant enhancement new clients such as Ericsson, Vattenfall and new assignments to our North American presence, integrating two sister WPP from Bank of America.
A 2010 expansion plan for this line businesses into The Brand Union.
BIG Brand Integration of business is being enacted.
Group, formerly part of Ogilvy NY, merged with Brouillard a first-class B2B communications agency and The Brand Union, to form a powerful new offer in the branding and Key client partnerships communications arena.
Headed by CEO Rob Scalea and chief creative officer Richard Bates, the New York team Despite the challenging economy, we grew our top 10 client has led the development of major clients such as Bank of revenue significantly.
In addition to clients mentioned above, America Merrill Lynch, Coca-Cola, SPX, TFI and, most we won new assignments from Pernod Ricard, Henkel, recently, helping to re-launch BlackRock following the Mars, Reckitt Benckiser, Vodafone and Vattenfall.
acquisition of Barclays Global Investors.
Using a unified operating platform, known as Brand Mastery, across our network, we expect to develop further our core business through the delivery of compelling strategic work and powerful Brand World experiences.
Awards and recognition The Brand Union performed well in key award shows winning either first or second in major awards such as the DBA, Marketing Design Awards and D&AD.
We also earned our first Cannes Lion Silver, awarded to Hans Brindfors and his team in our Stockholm office.
At the end of the year, the London agency was named Design Agency of the Year by Marketing magazine, crowning an outstanding year in terms of new business, client business growth and acknowledged creative output.
Our agency in Bangalore was also selected as Design Agency of the Year for the second year running by the Economic Times of India.
On this solid base, we look forward to the challenges and opportunities of the year ahead.
