How were doing Healthcare Communications CommonHealth Working in tandem with other WPP agencies, CommonHealth provided extensive multidisciplinary support Report by Matt Giegerich below for multiple brands in the recently consolidated Johnson & President and chief executive officer Johnson pharmaceutical portfolio.
The organization built upon its ever-increasing global presence and launched CommonHealth Kyowa in Japan.
CommonHealth expanded its e-media capabilities and is now the industrys largest purchaser of medical e-media.
Much of this success is attributed to the organizations focus on a singular strategy: to lead the reinvention of the industrys new communications model.
CommonHealth is achieving this in a number of significant ways: Assembling critical mass: consolidating five professional agencies to three creative powerhouses.
Generating efficiencies and economies of scale: consolidating studio and production services across all disciplines and groups.
Investing aggressively in digital talent and resources, including the development of a comprehensive in-house media lab.
Launching new business units to handle expanded client needs.
Relentlessly presenting and publishing new thinking on the evolution of healthcare communications.
For the 18th consecutive year, CommonHealth proved itself a leader and formidable competitor in the healthcare Proactive plan in place communications industry, showing a continuously innovative drive and delivering solid business growth.
All the more With a clear, proactive plan in place, CommonHealth is well impressive in a year characterized by overall economic woes, positioned to accommodate the ever-changing pharmaceutical client consolidation and retrenchment, patent expirations and life sciences industries.
All CommonHealth managers and regulatory delays.
and teams are charged with evaluating their client work in In the midst of this dynamic environment, the context of The 4 Is: CommonHealth generated significant business opportunities Insight How well do they understand the clinical and by anticipating the new needs of the marketplace, evolving scientific underpinnings of the brand?
How well are they its offerings and inter-connecting the various aspects of its applying new tools and techniques to help clients understand enterprise a proactive strategy that grew the agencys their customers and key brand drivers?
business while helping to grow clients brands.
Inspiration How strong is the work creatively?
CommonHealths strong marketplace reputation, Aesthetically?
Does it stand out as the best, most compelling high levels of client satisfaction and innovative new services work in the category?
are coupled with an uncommon ability to collaborate Innovation How contemporary and technologically and integrate across all marketing disciplines, channels sophisticated are the campaigns, tactics, platforms, media and audiences.
channels, research and analytic techniques?
In the coming year, CommonHealth will continue to Integration How well are they aligning the various transform its talent, services and structure to bolster its audience, channel, context and content threads for this brand?
leadership position and secure its future growth.
CommonHealth will also be developing a more comprehensive, coordinated global offering.
CommonHealth Worldwide will give clients access to a full array of services, A year of impressive milestones including: strategic planning, brand identity development, professional and consumer advertising and promotion, digital More aligned, more focused and more collectively strategy and implementation, promotional medical education, determined, CommonHealth realized a year of impressive medical congress content and logistics, market research and milestones.
The agency currently handles 29 global The group was named No.
1 healthcare agency by assignments, with WPP agency partners providing local Advertising Age for the third consecutive year.
