How were doing letter to share owners our portfolio of direct investments in new media, including Our practice development activities are also aimed at 24 7 Real Media, under WPP Digital and where our helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing investments are working with our agencies and people to functional and geographic areas.
During 2009, acquisitions bring new technology capabilities and understanding to our and increased equity stakes were focused on Advertising clients.
All these initiatives are designed to ensure that we, and Media Investment Management in Italy, Portugal, Israel, the parent company, really do as well as being perceived to South Africa and Australia: on Consumer Insight in the US, inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise the UK, Russia, China, the Philippines and Singapore: on our operating companies to achieve their strategic and Public Relations & Public Affairs in Poland and Vietnam: operational goals.
on direct, digital and interactive in the US, the UK, France and Hong Kong: and on Healthcare Communications in France and China.
Growing our revenues So far in 2010, the Group has made acquisitions or increased equity interests in Advertising and Media Fifth, to continue to place greater emphasis on revenue Investment Management in Brazil, Poland and Israel growth.
One legitimate criticism of our performance and in direct, digital and interactive in the US and UK.
5 against the best-performing competition is our These acquisitions continue to move us forward to comparative level of organic revenue growth.
Looking our previously described strategic priorities: expanding back over the last decade, 2000 was a bumper year but the market shares of our businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin unsustainable.
In 2001, we moved back into the middle of America, Africa and the Middle East and Central and the pack.
There was a significant revival in 2002 and 2003, Eastern Europe to one-third: in marketing services to when we were one of only two of the major companies that two-thirds: and in consumer insight, direct, digital and showed revenue growth.
2004 was punctuated with a interactive, to one-half.
number of high-profile wins, resulting in the second strongest We intend to expand our strong networks Ogilvy & organic growth performance in the industry, and 2005 and Mather, JWT, Y&R, Grey, United Network, Bates 141, 2006 saw strong growth again among the leaders in the MindShare, MEC, MediaCom, TNS, Millward Brown, industry.
New business wins in 2007 were unprecedented Kantar Media, Kantar Health, Kantar Retail, Kantar in the history of WPP and revenue growth again impressed Worldpanel, Hill & Knowlton, Ogilvy Public Relations against the competition, particularly the Big Four.
In 2008, Worldwide, Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, OgilvyOne, revenue growth trailed a little behind our major competitors Wunderman, OgilvyAction, G2, 24 7 Real Media, and, most recently, the Groups revenue decline in 2009 CommonHealth, Sudler & Hennessey, Ogilvy Healthworld, was less worse than most.
Throughout all years, margin ghg, The Brand Union, Landor and Fitch in high-growth performance was at the top end of the pack.
markets or where their market share is insufficient.
Estimated net new billings of 3.1 billion $4.8 billion in We will also enhance our leadership position in 2009, slightly up on 2008, reflected a consistently high level consumer insight by further development of our key of wins throughout the year.
The Group was ranked second brands with particular emphasis on North America, Asia in two of the three major industry new business surveys in Pacific, Latin America and Continental and Eastern Europe.
Net business wins even excluding important saves We will continue our growth of research panels and have have been extremely strong so far in 2010, totalling established a Kantar-wide operational capability, which approximately $2 billion by the end of February according will be consolidated with the same function at TNS.
to trade sources and with the Group heading all new business We will reinforce our growing position in media research tables for the first quarter.
through Kantar Media, which includes our investments in television audience research through the former TNS Media Intelligence and TNS Media Research, and IBOPE and Organic revenue growth vs peers % Marktest, which, combined, is the market leader outside North America.
10 WPP In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide IPG 5 strength in direct and interactive marketing and research Omnicom through our traditional channels such as OgilvyOne, 0 Publicis Wunderman, G2, Blanc & Otus and Lightspeed.
Although -5 Havas the early 2000-2001 compressions in financial valuations -10 following the internet bust initially offered significant -15 opportunities, we will now also invest directly in the new 2007 Q108 Q208 Q308 Q408 Q109 Q209 Q309 Q409 channels through start-ups, particularly as US and French WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 27
