How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read below across WPP and is currently used by more than 700 clients, Chief executive officer running campaigns across 50 countries and 15 languages in 37 different currencies.
Connecting to 100 search engines and feed publishers, the technology bids and reports on 60 million keywords every day.
Having our own platform enables us to partner more effectively with other technology companies through closer co-operation, technology integrations and product alignments.
A good example of this has been our partnership with Omniture, announced in January 2009, through which more than 500 people across WPP have been trained in Omnitures analytics solutions.
At the same time, we have successfully integrated Omniture into Open AdStream to enhance its value and performance for publishers and advertisers.
Our partnership continues to expand on both the service and technology front following Adobes acquisition of Omniture in October 2009.
In addition, 24 7 Real Medias own media network grew substantially in 2009, reaching more than 200 million individual consumers each month.
In the US, its media network was ranked a Top 5 US ad network by comScore March 2009, growing its reach by 80% in the past two years.
A similarly strong performance was seen in France.
WPP Digital exists to accelerate WPPs development of Perhaps most importantly, the Media Innovation Group world-class capabilities in digital marketing and media.
MIG was established, in partnership with GroupM, Our record performance in 2009 was proof, if it were to formalise our joint initiatives to apply digital technology needed, that marketing is going digital at an increasing to the media investment management business.
MIG rate, regardless of any economic downturn.
We achieved launched the Zeus Advertising Platform ZAP for display significant growth in both revenues and profits.
Decide DNA is also being integrated into ZAP prestigious new clients and important industry awards.
allowing closer integration of display and search campaigns.
We expanded geographically, opening new offices in Africa, MIGs technology offerings enable our clients to target, Asia and the Middle East.
And we continued to extend the deliver and optimise messaging to audiences across any reach of our technologies across WPP and the wider industry reserve or exchange-traded digital media.
In its first full consistent with our belief that technology will be increasingly year of operation, MIG managed over 400 campaigns for critical to our business and to our clients and can create 85 advertisers across 120 networks and 2,000 websites.
24 7 Real Media 24 7 Real Media is at the centre of our strategy to invest in proprietary technologies where critical and to partner with industry leaders when possible: the ultimate aim being to develop an integrated technology platform, which allows our clients to reach their customers more effectively.
Over the course of 2009, 24 7 Real Media continued to execute against this strategy with considerable success, both in its own business, where it operates in 12 countries through 18 offices and in partnership with other WPP companies.
24 7 Real Media significantly extended the reach of its proprietary technologies.
Its market-leading ad management platform, Open AdStream, delivered 780 billion ads across Jonathan Hsu above left David Moore above right thousands of websites in 2009 equivalent to more than one Chief executive officer Chairman ad per day for every internet user.
Its award-winning search 24 7 real Media 24 7 real Media technology, Decide DNA, has achieved widespread adoption WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 75 How were doing WPP Digital Serving over 20 billion targeted impressions, MIG grew Music Groups VEVO.
com, which attracted over 35 million billings under management five-fold in 2009. registered users in its first three weeks.
We were delighted that industry-leading work like this was recognized by Advertising Age again including Schematic in the BLUE 2009 Digital A-List issue, and Target honouring Schematic with its coveted Best of the Bullseye Award for Top Partner.
BLUE celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2009 with a strong year of growth and the Marketing magazine Agency of the Year Award for Singapore.
We were particularly proud as Deliver this is the first time this coveted award, voted on by clients, has been given to a digital agency.
While this was the In 2008, in recognition of clients needs to produce quality highlight of a long list of awards, BLUE won other industry digital work more cost-effectively, we took the decision to accolades in 2009, including client and peer awards in invest in high-quality, low-cost production with the search marketing, email marketing, online advertising establishment of Deliver.
In its first full year, Deliver won and web design.
significant production work from Dell and Nokia, its founding BLUE continued to grow its client roster, adding leading clients, and new work from AstraZeneca as well as clients brands such as Air China, Adobe, Danone and Standard from sister WPP agencies, including AT&T, HSBC, Colgate, Chartered Bank to its existing list of blue-chip clients.
It also Campbell Soup and Smuckers.
Deliver also launched DEPP, opened up a new regional hub in Dubai to better serve the the Deliver Efficient Production Platform, which provides needs of its clients in the GCC countries and the Middle East.
world-class briefing, workflow and reporting management for its more than 1,000 people who operate from seven locations across the globe.
Quasar Quasar continues to be Indias leading digital marketing Johannes Leonardo services company.
Along with a strong domestic presence in India, Quasar has now created a digital production hub for Creative hotshop Johannes Leonardo was recognized by WPP agencies and international clients, a key part of Deliver Advertising Age with one of the first-ever Small Agency of see below.
Nokia, through Wunderman, is already one the Year Awards.
Based in New York, Johannes Leonardo of the clients for this hub.
Quasars leading clients include continues to create breakthrough ideas that harness the Microsoft, Chevrolet, Monster, Plan, MakeMyTrip and potential of our consumer-driven digital landscape for Skoda.
During 2009, Quasar also started operations in leading companies including Google, Unilever, Daffys, Kenya under the brand Squad Digital, through a joint Nestl, Clarins, Pele Sports and Chanel.
Most recently, the venture with WPP and Scangroup.
agency launched the global digital platform Womanity.
Schematic iconmobile Schematic had a successful 2009 adding prestigious clients including Best Buy, Orange, Bank of America, Logitech, For iconmobile, the year 2009 was its most successful yet on Johnson & Johnson and Universal Music Group to its the back of strong interest in mobile as a marketing channel, roster and continuing to grow existing relationships with driven by the success of the iPhone and the launch of new Microsoft, Nokia, Dell, Target and Comcast among others.
mobile platforms such as Android by Google.
Much of its In June, Schematic received international acclaim for work was in the software, financial services, luxury goods the launch of its interactive Touchwall at the Cannes Lions and automotive sectors.
It built the first smart phone-enabled Advertising Festival, garnering 25 million media impressions mobile payment service for Barclaycard, a new application and resulting in the launch of a new digital out of home concept showing the possibilities for virtual instrumentation division, Schematic Touch.
The firms pro bono work on in the automobile of the future for Fujitsu and supported the Interactive Advertising Bureaus Privacy Matters North Face in launching the Red Flag Campaign in China, campaign has generated over 20 million impressions to date, that used the mobile channel to integrate digital, event, field along with a full-page article in The New York Times.
Notable marketing, media, PR and in-store marketing activities.
client milestones include the launch of Nokias OVI app store now with over one million downloads a day and Universal 76 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 How were doing WPP Digital Syzygy The future Syzygy had a good year despite the challenging economic Across WPP Digital we possess a unique group of companies environment.
Two creative highlights were the launch of the with a breadth of skills that span the digital marketing global brand platform for Jgermeister by Syzygy and sister industry: analytics, mobile, search marketing, social media, agency High-ReS!
and the online support for the global user experience.
Our companies share a common belief in launch of the prestigious Chanel No.
5 advertising film, digital marketing and in the importance of technology and which for the first time premiered on the internet rather innovation, of data and analytics and of delivering results than through traditional media.
Each of these factors is becoming increasingly important to WPPs clients.
Indeed, one of the strengths of our business is that the market is heading in our direction.
Other developments Another is the group of bright, talented, innovative people who are excited by what they do.
They worked hard in a In January 2009, we made a $25 million investment in difficult environment and we would like to thank them for Omniture which was acquired by Adobe in October 2009. all their contributions over the past year.
The Group benefitted from a $36 million gain on this investment and we continue to develop a strong partnership with the broader group.
Elsewhere in the technology area, we announced the results of the first Google WPP Marketing Research Awards at a joint conference in New York in November, attended by both companies and our clients.
We were very pleased with the initial findings and the program is being continued this year with a further set of grants to 11 academic teams.
