How were doing letter to share owners Group spent 63 million on initial acquisition payments, But it is also clear that there is an increasing requirement well within the target set.
for the centre to complement the operating companies in Dividends or share buy-backs.
We were the only FTSE 100 professional development and client co-ordination.
It is company to consistently increase its dividend by 20% per a relatively recent development for certain multinational annum for the ten years up to 2007.
In 2008 we increased marketing companies, when looking to satisfy their global the dividend by 15% and, in 2009, we maintained the communications needs, to make their initial approach not dividend at the same level as the previous year.
Given to operating companies, but directly to parent companies.
dividend cover of almost three times headline earnings in Such assignments present major, and increasingly 2009 four times in 2008 and a dividend yield of over 2% frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is at the time of writing, we believe that there is scope to absolutely essential that we have the professional resources increase the dividend in the future.
and the practice development capability to serve such clients A rolling share buy-back program appears to offer a more comprehensively, actively and creatively.
Initiatives involving significant benefit to total share owner returns.
In 2007 we some of the worlds largest marketers continue to gain boosted the target level of the share buy-back program from momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself integrating 2-3% of the outstanding share capital to 4-5%, spending its efforts around brands, in the areas of advertising, media over 400m in that year on buy-backs and a further investment management, market research, packaging design 112 million in 2008.
Following the acquisition of TNS, and public relations.
and in accordance with the target referred to above, buyAll our clients, whether global, multinational or local, backs in 2009 were only 9 million, representing 0.2% continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, co-ordination of share capital, again well within the target set.
In response, we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
1 Distributions to share owners m Training and development 600 3.6% 4.8% 6.6% 4.7% 3.4% Buy-backs Dividends paid Talent and its management therefore remain the lynchpin of 450 our reason for existence: that is what our clients pay us for.
300 Development of our people and the way we manage that talent is a critical determinant of performance and on that 150 critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
3.4% 0 In the creation of highly competitive incentives with 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 extremely attractive working environments, we increasingly 1 Sum of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares in issue for the differentiate ourselves from our competitors and improve the relevant period, as a % of the average share price for the relevant period.
attractiveness of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
Our quarterly reviews with the operating companies have Fourth, we will continue to enhance the value added been restructured, consequently, to give more time by the parent company and build unique integrated and attention to talent and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts 4 marketing approaches for clients.
WPP is not just a throughout 2008 and 2009 were especially fruitful as we holding company focused on planning, budgeting, reporting successfully targeted and recruited top talent within and and financial issues, but a parent company that can add beyond our industry, often competing with investment value to our clients and our people in the areas of human banking, management consulting and private equity offers.
resources, property, procurement, information technology The war for talent is fierce, and there is more to be done.
We will continue to do this The blueprint for our executive development curriculum through a limited group of 300 or so people at the centre has been completed, and our flagship client leadership in Dublin, London, New York, Tokyo, Hong Kong and training program, Maestro, is being continuously developed.
This does not mean that we seek to diminish the The parent company and each of our operating companies strength of our operating brands, but rather to learn from one installed its own approach to performance assessment and another.
Our objective is to maximise the added value for our succession planning, aimed at developing the careers of their clients with their businesses and our people with their careers.
people, improving the quality of feedback, coaching and Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale mentoring they receive and providing for orderly succession.
In the optimum use of property, We have launched a senior management mentoring and in information technology and in procurement generally, development program specifically for women.
we are able to achieve efficiencies that would be beyond the We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation reach of any individual operating company.
practices, both to offer competitive and appropriately-based WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 25
