How were doing Agency networks In 2009 we worked hard to ensure a strong cutbacks in traditional promotional spend would affect our performance here: global business in 2009.
However, increased growth in the We won 32 creative excellence awards in 2009 for our more evolved and specialized areas of Shopper and Trade ideas, including four globals and six marketing effectiveness Marketing proved a timely development within our sector.
Our Digital and PR practices, working together, Our Shopper, Trade and Experiential disciplines, coupled won a Pharmaceutical Marketing Digital Award for its with our creativity and analytical expertise enabled us to global program for Wyeths Naked Truth campaign.
deliver successful and award-winning programs to many of See www.
The innovative our clients: Kraft, Coca-Cola and BAT to name but a few.
print and TV work for Smith & Nephew won two Clios This focus has also helped deliver an important point in the first ever Clio Healthcare Awards.
of difference in new business strategy and delivery.
Our ideas enabled us to innovate within our Successes with Lego, Diageo and Kimberly-Clark, all key Digital Healthcare and Strategic Planning offers in the wins for us over the past 12 months, are proof of this.
We took these new approaches In 2009 our business was centered in EAME which to clients and built Innovation Days to get brand teams brought in nearly half of our global revenues.
Asia and thinking very differently about their marketing and North America brought in around a quarter each, with communications strategies.
the remaining revenues coming from Latin America.
We found new ways to measure what we do for clients With continued growth expected from the BRIC markets, and the ROI impact it has in our Measurement and Analytics we expect that 2010 will create more opportunity and practice.
In this economic climate, it is all important to ensure a more balanced regional business structure.
we are spending budgets in the most effective way possible.
Significant themes in 2010 are primarily the continued And we built a number of multi-market delivery models growth and strategic importance of Shopper and Trade for international clients, tailored to the level of central disciplines.
In addition, digital will also have a significant control they required and the set of metrics that are impact in our space as the proliferation of new technologies important to them, saving time, resources and money.
The increase in 3G usage and the growing We look forward to rolling out these strategies further influence of social media suggest that digital activity in 2010. in Activation will become even more prevalent in the coming years.
As with almost every company in the communications OgilvyAction industry, 2009 was a year that we would not like to experience again.
However, OgilvyAction has just cause to Report by Steve Harding below right be optimistic for 2010 and beyond.
The key components Global chief executive officer of the Activation arena are now so vital that no marketer could consider Activation as not being an integral part In the face of a challenging environment, 2009 was a year of the strategic armory of their marketing and business of positive transition for OgilvyAction.
We crystallized our services and we believe OgilvyAction is well placed for focus into what clients are increasingly asking for, Shopper, the challenge.
Trade and Experiential Marketing in particular, which resulted in significant new business gains in the later part of the year.
We focused on building our credentials across the industry, extending our presence into critical new geographies, and solidifying our business with both global and local clients.
In 2009 a new global leadership team was appointed, which has been focused on delivering a diverse, yet specialized offering.
A refreshed strategic focus for our company as well as a robust engagement team and road map were put in place to drive directly more business from Ogilvys global client base.
We also instilled an even greater passion for delivering impactful and innovative creative thinking and solutions that will highlight the increasingly vital role of the OgilvyAction network within the Ogilvy Group.
This has already paid dividends with new business wins both globally and locally.
Having been the cornerstone of the activation business model for many years, the strategic importance of Sales Promotion is receding.
It was clear from the end of 2008 that 36 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
