How were doing Agency networks OgilvyOne Worldwide and So Paulo, we bring innovative applications and technologies to market with our clients.
Among the Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh below innovations currently featured in the lab: how to Chairman and chief executive officer systematically measure the impact of social media: how to use augmented reality in mobile search applications: Despite the highly challenging economic environment, and digital point-of-sale technologies that deliver targeted OgilvyOne was able to grow in critical areas and continue messaging.
The lab is gaining traction.
Global clients have to shape ourselves for the future.
Digital marketing is the commissioned us to create innovation labs on their own single greatest growth pillar for OgilvyOne, and we must premises, and The Mobile Marketing Association named us as the top global agency for innovation.
The future of OgilvyOne lies in our unique combination of creativity and performance results.
Our mission is to help build the volume and value of our clients customers.
To this end, in 2009 we launched the Global Data Practice a global team of over 250 data and analytics specialists devoted to finding customer insights and connecting them to the cash register.
This will form a critical platform for future growth as it underscores our rallying cry: We sell, or else.
Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Report by Christopher Graves below Global chief executive officer and Marcia Silverman below right Chair In a year considered the worst for communications since 2001, Ogilvy PR drew upon its highly-diversified, global relentlessly innovate to stay ahead of the pack.
Forrester network to deliver solid results.
While some of its more than ranked OgilvyOne among its top echelon of leaders in its 2009 report, and OgilvyInteractive was recognized as the No.
1 largest digital agency network by RECMA.
Neo@Ogilvy, our innovative global search, digital media and performance marketing offering, was once again the fastest-growing part of the company.
Digital work from London, Dusseldorf and New York was honored at Cannes.
At the 2009 global DMA Echo Awards, OgilvyOne won 16 medals, more than any other agency network.
OgilvyOne achieved agency-of-the-year status in Germany, Greece, Hong Kong and Portugal.
The Mobile Marketing Association named Ogilvy the top global agency for innovation.
And, in North America, we were named Business-to-Business Agency of the Year by BtoB magazine.
Even more rewarding than industry recognition was client success: in 2009 we added significant new digital 80 offices around the world were hit hard, others soared to assignments from BT, Nestl, Purina, Sony, Unilever, record profits, reinforcing the strength of a genuine network Yahoo!
International and Zurich Financial Group.
with broad-reaching, yet deep local roots.
One way we plan to stay at the leading edge of digital In the midst of the economic storm, Ogilvy PR played marketing is through the Ogilvy Digital Lab network.
a central role in the Ogilvy & Mather group initiative From our labs in Singapore, New York, London, Beijing designed to lead clients to opportunities in the downturn, 34 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
