How were doing Agency networks we worked to ensure that offline and online brand communications converged productively.
This meant providing effective strategic solutions to the growing role of relationship marketing between HCPs, patients and caregiver communities in brand preference and behaviors that drive them.
To oversee our international operations, Max Jackson was promoted to CEO of our EMEA and APAC regions.
Louisa Holland and Rob Rogers continue as co-CEOs for The Americas, overseeing our US and Canadian operations and continued expansion into Latin America.
Supporting growing global opportunities, we expanded our geographic footprint with affiliate offices in Johannesburg and Moscow: the acquisition of MDS Healthcare in Shanghai and Beijing now Sudler MDS : strengthened our capabilities in Spain through a collaboration now CYS Sudler : increased Canadian operations: and broadened our Mexico City presence with medical education, advertising and CRM offerings that serve both the country as well as many parts of the LatAm region.
The Bravo Group Report by Eddie Gonzalez below Chairman and chief executive officer Bravos transformation continued on track in 2009 with enhanced client relationships, evolving digital capabilities and the addition of more senior talent.
The year started tentatively Sudler & Hennessey with clients debating Hispanic and multicultural investments Report by Jed Beitler below Chairman and worldwide chief executive officer Sudler & Hennessey is one of the worlds most soughtafter healthcare communications networks.
During a year of economic challenges, we continued to build on our successes by bringing Established Innovation services and geographic offerings to meet the ever-changing needs of our clients within human and animal health industries including pharmaceuticals, biotech, fast-moving consumer goods, foods, device diagnostics, governmental and nongovernmental organizations.
The S&H network focused on strengthening its relationships with current clients, growing network opportunities and providing 100% client satisfaction, resulting in positive outcomes for the network.
In 2009, the S&H network was honored with over 35 awards from creative festivals around the world, including the Global Awards, the Rx Club, Best of Health, Effie Awards and Comprix Awards.
In 2009, we continued our focus on supporting client technology needs through S&H Digital, adding digital strategists and expanding our overall delivery across a wide array of interactive solutions.
As opportunities grew, 44 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009
