What we think Why a Ruritanian Poltergeist can be as Valuable as an Automated Processing Plant By Jeremy Bullmore ere in the boardroom of at its most responsible, with deeply between levels of marketing spend and a company that makes reassuring numbers attached to every his brands market share and profit W fast-moving consumer item.
Like the assets its designed to contribution.
At the heart of todays agenda protect and enhance, its wonderfully attentively to his presentation and is budget allocation for the tangible: its concrete.
And so is the asks intelligent questions.
But as the forthcoming year.
The two most language in which the recommendation Chairman puts it in summary: times prominent supplicants are the is framed.
are tough, and theres universal Production Director and the The Marketing Director is agreement that costs must be Marketing Director.
responsible for the companys brands.
So on balance, with The Production Director has a On the companys balance sheet, they economic conditions being what they  case for an are categorised as intangibles.
are, and with the brands momentum increase in capital expenditure.
Marketing budgets have traditionally looking gratifyingly healthy, rather A concerning proportion of the been decided on the basis of last-yearthan the suggested increase, perhaps companys manufacturing capacity plus-a-little.
The Marketing Directors some modest reduction in promotional is obsolescent.
Working together, most high-profile recent campaign is support would be the more responsible Production and Procurement have put aimed at teenagers and features a course of action at this moment in time.
their requirements out for tender and Ruritanian poltergeist who wears a kilt At the end of the Board Meeting, have interrogated the competitive and is called Feliks.
Although theres the Marketing Director is not as happy proposals within an inch of their lives.
evidence to suggest that this campaign an executive as the Production Director.
They are wholly satisfied that theyve is greatly appreciated by its target got the most cost-effective deal.
audience, and sales are indeed buoyant, Full-colour plans and scale models are not every member of the Board fully The above cameo, of course, is fiction.
on display to augment the imagination.
appreciates Feliks nor is familiar with But it was prompted by a remarkable Visits have been made to other sites the largely digital media on which he investors note issued by the Consumer where equivalent plant has been features.
When compared with a new Staples Research team from Deutsche installed to the complete satisfaction robotic processing plant, a kilt-wearing Bank, Europe, in January 2010.
The suppliers Ruritanian poltergeist doesnt intuitively stated purpose was to analyse the calculations of expected ROI have strike them as being as deserving a effect of advertising and promotional been double-checked and audited: the recipient of precious, finite funds.
investment on the consumer staples predicted payback is mouth-watering.
The Marketing Director makes an sector, its impact on profit growth rates Unless this programme is fully funded, excellent case.
He doesnt resort to and the likely shape of profit recovery competitive pricing of the companys jargon, sensibly plays down the creative coming out of the recession.
goods may soon become impossible.
awards that Feliks has accumulated and Throughout their report, the The Production Directors case is musters an impressive array of research Deutsche Bank team use A&P a sturdy one: proposed investment that demonstrates a strong correlation as shorthand for this investment.
102 WPP AnnuAl rePort 2009 What we think Why a ruritanian Poltergeist can be as Valuable as an Automated Processing Plant name.
Among the 30 companies scrutinised, Deutsche Bank identified 10 slightly different terms for A&P expenditure.
The precise composition of different companies A&P expenditures also varies widely and in several instances, their expenditures are not disclosed at all.
To attempt to compare the relative values of Capex and A&P would be as pointless as attempting to determine which is the more important wheel on a bicycle.
To be unable to make what you sell is neither better nor worse than being unable to sell what you make.
But because of their uniquely elusive quality, the value of brands rather more than the value of machinery badly needs periodic championing: and so, it follows, does the importance of A&P.
Mere products may have life cycles Here are three of their conclusions.
growth 30% faster than those who do and tangible assets certainly do.
But Brands are critical in consumer not.
And while its self-evident that if nurtured and nourished by its A&P, staples Intangible assets account for cutting marketing spend delivers an a brand can be for ever.
more than 100% of the market value immediate cost benefit, companies It seems somehow appropriate that of the consumer staples sector reflecting that increase A&P deliver profit the only company asset capable of the power of brands built up over many growth faster than those that cut returning a profit for all eternity should decades.
Indeed, just as Capex protects A&P.
They add the chilling comment: be called an intangible.
the tangible assets, advertising and Losing market share can be quite a promotional spend builds and protects profitable experience it is the cost of Jeremy Bullmore is a member the value of consumer brands.
stabilising and rebuilding a brand that of the WPP Advisory Board The importance of A&P is not well is expensive.
understood A&P spend is the second What the Deutsche Bank note does, largest cost for the staples industry among many useful things, is to remind and critical to the health of brands us of the remarkable differences in and thus valuation.
However, financial vocabulary, in the use of language, disclosure of these items is generally that are employed when we talk about poor and 73% of respondents in our a companys different assets.
investor survey said that they did not A companys tangible assets are have a good idea of how the industry exactly that.
The spends its marketing budget.
money that is commonly agreed to Actions in recession key to shape be necessary for the maintenance and of recovery Our analysis shows that enhancement of those assets has companies who continue to invest, a commonly agreed name: capital grow faster, and we can see clear trends expenditure, or Capex.
A public in terms of A&P investment during the companys Capex is necessarily downturn.
The actions of companies disclosed.
through the recession have diverged A companys brands, perhaps significantly and it is those actions representing more than 100% of its that we believe will drive the trajectory market value, are called intangibles.
Synonyms for intangible include Their analysis of over 30 large insubstantial, elusive, vague, ethereal European and US consumer staples and indefinable.
The money that every E uropean Consumer Staples: The Importance of A&P, companies over more than 15 years company knows to be necessary for the 15 January 2010.
Deutsche Bank AG, Consumer Staples research team.
shows that companies that increase maintenance and enhancement of extracts from Deutsche Bank note reproduced A&P to sales ratios deliver sales those assets has no commonly agreed with kind permission.
