48 Governance Directors Report The directors present their annual report The directors recommend a final dividend Lord Boyce and Keith Clarke will retire by on the affairs of the Company and the of 17.25 pence per ordinary share in rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, Group, together with the Financial respect of the year ended 31 March 2009, will offer themselves for re-election.
Statements and the Independent to be paid on 25 September 2009 to James Morley, having served on the Board Auditors Report, for the year ended ordinary shareholders on the register since January 2001, will retire from the 31 March 2009.
These will be laid before on 14 August 2009.
This is subject to Board on 30 June 2009.
Lord Boyce shareholders at the Annual General shareholder approval at the AGM.
If and Keith Clarke will be subject to Meeting AGM to be held at 1630 hours approved, this will mean a total dividend retirement by rotation at future AGMs on Wednesday 9 September 2009.
Details of 26.0 pence per ordinary share will have in accordance with the Companys Articles of the business to be considered at the been paid for the year to 31 March 2009 of Association.
AGM, together with an explanation of all 2008: 24.0p when added to the interim the resolutions, are set out in the separate dividend of 8.75 pence per ordinary share The Board considers that the performance Notice of Meeting.
Further details of those directors proposed for re-election regarding dividend payments can be continues to be effective and that they Principal activities and business review found in Investor Information page 122. demonstrate a strong commitment to WS Atkins plc is the ultimate holding their role.
In addition, the Board considers company of a group of companies.
Directors that the performance of the directors Detailed information on the Groups The names and biographical details of proposed for re-appointment will be principal activities, its performance those persons serving as directors of the effective and that they demonstrate the during the past year and its prospects for Company as at the date of this report necessary commitment.
future development are reported in the are set out in this report pages 46 to 47.
Chairmans Statement pages 6 to 7, Raj Rajagopal and Joanne Curin were Directors and officers of the Company the Chief Executives Statement pages appointed to the Board during the year and its subsidiaries benefit from directors 8 to 12, the Human Resources Review to 31 March 2009.
Heath Drewett was and officers liability insurance cover in pages 14 to 17, the Business Review appointed as a director with effect from respect of legal actions brought against pages 18 to 37 and the Corporate 15 June 2009 and will replace Robert them.
In addition, directors of the Responsibility Review pages 38 to 44.
MacLeod as Group finance director when Company are indemnified in accordance The statements and reviews are he leaves the Company on 19 June 2009. with Article 143 of the Companys Articles incorporated into this report by reference, of Association to the maximum extent together with the list of the principal Under the Companys Articles of permitted by law.
Prior to the adoption subsidiary undertakings and the countries Association all directors must retire at the of new Articles of Association by in which they operate note 40 to the first AGM following their appointment by shareholders on 3 September 2008, all Financial Statements on page 116. the Board and may offer themselves for directors in appointment on that date re-appointment.
Additionally, one-third had separate deeds of indemnity.
These Acquisitions and disposals made by the of directors must retire at each AGM and indemnities, which still remain in force, are Group during the year are described in they may offer themselves for re-election.
available for inspection by shareholders notes 9 and 15 to the Financial Statements at the Companys registered office during pages 90 to 94.
Raj Rajagopal, following his appointment normal business hours and will be by the Board as a director on available for inspection at the AGM.
Results and dividends 24 June 2008, was re-appointed by The Group profit after tax for the year of shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
Joanne Neither the insurance nor the indemnities 84.2m 2008: 100.0m is shown in the Curin, who was appointed as a director on provide cover where the relevant Consolidated Income Statement page 68.
10 February 2009, and Heath Drewett will director or officer has acted fraudulently both retire at the AGM and, being eligible, or dishonestly.
The Board of directors may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by a special resolution of the shareholders.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 49 Specific powers are detailed in the The authority will not be used to make Employees are routinely informed of Companys Articles of Association, political donations within the normal financial results and significant business including the power to issue and buy back meaning of that expression.
Further details issues via the use of email, voice shares, along with the rules for the are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
conference, the Companys intranet and appointment and removal of directors.
Charitable donations Directors interests in the Company and During the year, the Group made An annual survey is carried out to obtain the Group are described in the Directors charitable donations of 187,757 feedback from employees.
This survey Remuneration Report in table 5 page 63.
The beneficiaries is confidential and is used alongside of these donations were local charities consultation with employees and union Articles of Association serving the communities in which the representatives where appropriate.
Company law has undergone substantial Group operates or charities working in change since January 2007 when the areas relevant to the Groups activities.
Employee involvement in the Groups phased implementation of the Companies The Group intends to continue its performance continues to be encouraged Act 2006 the 2006 Act commenced.
The focus on local charities in the current through share ownership.
In the UK, Articles of Association of the Company financial year.
employees are given the opportunity to were revised in 2008.
At this time it was become shareholders through the envisaged that further changes to the Corporate governance Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Articles of Association would be made and remuneration Approximately 10% of UK employees at the 2009 AGM as a result of the The Company prepares a separate participate in the Share Incentive Plan.
continuing phased implementation of the Corporate Governance Report pages 2006 Act and the implementation of 52 to 57 and Directors Remuneration Suppliers the EU Shareholders Rights Directive.
The Groups policy is to agree terms and However, some uncertainty still surrounds conditions for its business transactions the implementation of the latter and it has Corporate responsibility with suppliers and to endeavour to abide therefore been decided that the prudent A summary of the Groups corporate by these terms and conditions, subject to approach is to delay further changes responsibility activities is provided for the supplier performing its obligations.
until 2010. shareholders in the Corporate Responsibility Review pages 38 to 44.
No one supplier arrangement is Political donations and expenditure In addition, the Group provides further considered to be essential to the business It is the Groups policy not to make information on corporate responsibility, of the Group.
political donations and not to incur which includes detailed information political expenditure, either in the UK or in respect of health and safety, the The Company, as a holding company, overseas.
Accordingly, the Group made no environment, the community, people did not have any amounts owing to trade political donations and incurred no such and suppliers, on the Companys website creditors as at 31 March 2009. expenditure during the year and has no www.
intention of making any such donations Share capital and share purchases or incurring such expenditure in the Employees As at the date of this report, the future.
However, the provisions previously The Group is committed to the fair and Companys share capital consists of contained in the Companies Act 1985 and equitable treatment of all its employees, 104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary now enacted in the 2006 Act relating to irrespective of sex, race, age, religion, shares each with a nominal value of donations and expenditure covered by this disability or sexual orientation.
To this end, 0.5 pence per share, listed on the London disclosure are wide.
So as to prevent an policies have been implemented to ensure Stock Exchange.
Of these, 4,341,000 inadvertent breach of the 2006 Act the this is practised at recruitment and then ordinary shares are held in treasury the Board has historically sought authority continues throughout an individuals treasury shares.
Shares may be held in for the Company and its subsidiaries to employment with the Group.
The Group certificated or uncertificated form.
Further make such donations and incur such encourages recruitment, training, career details of the Companys authorised and expenditure up to an aggregate limit development and promotion on the basis issued share capital, including changes for the Company and its subsidiaries of of aptitude and ability, without regard to during the year, can be found in note 31 90,000, subject to the provisions of the disability.
It is also committed to retaining to the Financial Statements page 108.
The Board considers it prudent and retraining as necessary employees to once again seek such authority at the who become disabled during the course Companys forthcoming AGM.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 50 Governance Directors Report Continued At the AGM held in 2008, the Company The rights and obligations attaching payments, including information regarding was granted authority by shareholders to the Companys ordinary shares are the shares held by the EBTs can be found to purchase up to 10,051,000 ordinary contained in the Companys Articles in note 32 to the Financial Statements shares, representing approximately 10% of Association, a copy of which is page 109.
The Company is not aware of the Companys ordinary share capital available on the Companys website of any agreements between shareholders as at 25 June 2008.
com or can be that might result in the restriction of were purchased pursuant to this authority obtained on request from the company transfer or voting rights in relation to during the year.
This authority will expire secretary.
The Articles of Association the shares held by such shareholders.
at the forthcoming AGM and, in can only be changed by a special accordance with current best practice, resolution passed in a general meeting Changes of control the Company will seek to renew it.
All of the Companys employee share schemes contain provisions relating to The Board, mindful of the benefit of Each ordinary share other than treasury a change of control of the Company maintaining an efficient balance sheet, shares, which have no voting rights following a takeover bid.
Under these announced a share buyback programme carries the right to one vote on a poll provisions, a change of control of the on 27 November 2007 intended to return at a general meeting of the Company.
Company would normally be a vesting up to 100m to shareholders.
This There are no restrictions on transfer event, facilitating the exercise or transfer followed a review of the strength of the or limitations on the holding of the of awards, subject to any relevant Groups balance sheet following the Companys ordinary shares and no performance conditions being satisfied.
disposal of Lambert Smith Hampton and requirements for prior approval of any The Company is not a party to any other resolution of the uncertainty surrounding transfers.
Under the Companys Articles of significant agreements that take effect, the Groups investment in Metronet.
Association, the directors have the power alter or terminate upon a change of to suspend voting rights and the right to control following a takeover bid other The buyback of ordinary shares receive dividends in respect of shares in than its bank facility agreement, which in the Company commenced on circumstances where the holder of those provides that on a change of control the 29 November 2007 and, as at the date shares fails to comply with a notice issued Company is unable to draw down any of this report, 4,341,000 ordinary shares under Section 793 of the 2006 Act.
further amounts under the facility.
of 0.5 pence had been repurchased for an Further, it is not party to any agreement aggregate consideration of 45,999,418 Shares acquired through Atkins employee with the directors or employees providing excluding fees and stamp duty, share schemes rank equally with all other for compensation for loss of office representing approximately 4.2% of the ordinary shares in issue and have no or employment whether through Companys issued share capital.
The trustees of the resignation, purported redundancy or these shares are held in treasury.
In the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs otherwise that occurs as a result of event that the Company purchases further have waived their rights to dividends on a takeover bid.
ordinary shares in the Company, up to a shares held by the EBTs and do not further 6,104,179 ordinary shares could be exercise their right to vote in respect of Substantial shareholders held in treasury.
No purchases have been such shares.
Shares held in trust on behalf As at the date of this report, the Company made since July 2008. of participants in the Atkins Share had been notified of the following Incentive Plan are voted by the Trustee, holdings of 3% or more of the total Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed voting rights attaching to its issued by the participants.
Details of share-based share capital: Number of Percentage of 1 1 Name of holder voting rights total voting rights Legal & General Group plc 3,910,332 3.90% Lloyds TSB Group plc 3,154,015 3.04% Newton Investments Management Limited 3,928,108 3.92% Norges Bank 3,024,392 3.02% Schroders plc 10,143,360 9.99% 1.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 51 Cautionary statement Statement of directors responsibilities of the Company and the Group and Under the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006, The directors are responsible for preparing hence for taking reasonable steps for a companys directors report is required, the Annual Report, the Remuneration the prevention and detection of fraud among other matters, to contain a fair review Report and the Financial Statements and other irregularities.
by the directors of the Groups business in accordance with applicable law through a balanced and comprehensive and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the analysis of the development and performance maintenance and integrity of the of the business of the Group and the position Company law requires the directors to corporate and financial information of the Group at the year-end, consistent with prepare financial statements for each included on the Companys website.
the size and complexity of the business.
The directors have prepared Legislation in the UK governing the The Directors Report set out above, including the Group and Company Financial preparation and dissemination of financial the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Statements in accordance with applicable statements may differ from legislation Executives Statement, the Human Resources law and International Financial Reporting in other jurisdictions.
Review, the Business Review and the Corporate Standards IFRS as adopted by the Responsibility Review incorporated into it by European Union.
The Financial Statements Disclosure of audit information reference together, the Directors Report, has are required by law to give a true and The directors confirm that, as at the date been prepared only for the shareholders of the fair view of the state of affairs of the this report was approved, so far as each Company as a whole and its sole purpose and Company and the Group and of the profit director is aware there is no relevant audit use is to assist shareholders to exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the Directors or loss of the Group for that period.
information of which the Companys Report has not been audited or otherwise auditors are unaware and that he or she independently verified.
The Company and its In preparing those Financial Statements, has taken all the steps he or she ought to directors and employees are not responsible the directors are required to: have taken as a director in order to make for any other purpose or use or to any other himself or herself aware of any relevant person in relation to the Directors Report.
select suitable accounting policies and audit information and to establish that then apply them consistently the Companys auditors are aware of The Directors Report contains indications make judgements and estimates that that information.
of likely future developments and other are reasonable and prudent forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, among state that the Financial Statements Going concern other things, the economic and business comply with IFRS as adopted by the The directors have a reasonable circumstances occurring from time to time in European Union expectation that the Company and the the countries, sectors and business segments prepare the Financial Statements on the Group have adequate resources to in which the Group operates.
These factors going concern basis, unless it is continue in operational existence for the include, but are not limited to, those discussed inappropriate to presume that the foreseeable future and therefore continue under Principal Risks and Uncertainties Group and the Company will continue in to adopt the going concern basis in page 37.
These and other factors could business, in which case there should be preparing the Financial Statements.
adversely affect the Groups results, strategy supporting assumptions or qualifications and prospects.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Auditors They relate to events and or depend on The Companys auditors, circumstances in the future which could cause The directors confirm that they have  LLP, have actual results and outcomes to differ materially complied with the above requirements expressed their willingness to continue from those currently anticipated.
No obligation in preparing the Financial Statements.
in office and resolutions for their is assumed to update any forward-looking re-appointment and to authorise the statements, whether as a result of new The directors are responsible for keeping directors to determine their remuneration information, future events or otherwise.
proper accounting records that disclose will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Approved by the Board and signed on its Group and that enable them to ensure behalf by that the Financial Statements and the Remuneration Report comply with applicable company law and, as regards Richard Webster the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 Company Secretary of the IAS Regulation.
They are also 16 June 2009 responsible for safeguarding the assets WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
