14 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people Atkins success depends on attracting and retaining the most talented professionals in their respective fields and providing an environment in which they are able to apply their skills on a variety of complex projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 15 Top 20 Best Big Companies to Work For The Sunday Times, 2009 T o p 1 00 Graduate Employers The Times, 2008 Overview Headcount We had 300 graduate trainees joining in Atkins succeeds to the extent that we Headcount growth in the first half the year and, although we have reduced are able to attract and retain the most continued the trend of recent years our target to 150 for the year ahead, talented professionals in their respective with strong growth in most parts of the we remain committed to those on our fields and provide an environment in organisation, followed by action in the graduate programme.
For the fourth which they are able to apply their skills second half to adjust our resources to year in succession we were awarded the and experience in addressing our clients reflect the changed economic environment.
Most Popular Graduate Recruiter in the varied needs.
This means that being an Construction and Civil Engineering employer of choice is a prerequisite in In the eight months from April to category at the Target National Graduate what remains a competitive environment November 2008 headcount, including Awards.
This award is based on feedback for the best staff.
We are proud of our agency staff, increased by 8% to a peak gathered through an online campus record in meeting this challenge but of over 18,600.
From November 2008 survey of 90,000 undergraduates over recognise it requires a continual focus.
to March 2009 there was then a reduction a four-month period ending in January of circa 600 staff 3.2% reducing 2009 the largest of its kind in the UK.
We measure our performance in various headcount to 18,017.
Once allowance ways, partly by the breadth and depth is made for staff under notice then the Retention of the skills and capabilities of our people underlying headcount reduces to circa Staff turnover improved markedly but also by tracking a number of metrics 17,400.
These reductions were mainly throughout the year with overall staff which are integral to our management in the UK and Middle East building design turnover reducing from 15.4% to 11.4%.
These include retention, businesses and in Faithful Gould.
Turnover by region was as follows: employee engagement and the 2009 2008 composition of our workforce.
We also Every effort has been and continues take careful account of the views of our to be made to redeploy staff and, whilst UK 10.0% 15.0% staff expressed via internal and external a significant number of colleagues have Middle East 14.7% 15.0% surveys, with the latter resulting in left the business as a result of restructuring, China 17.9% 26.1% a number of awards.
many others have been redeployed Europe 8.9% 10.9% successfully to other parts of the business USA 10.2% 14.2% where we continue to see growth in demand for skilled staff.
We are recruiting We also monitor the stability index to fill specialist roles across the Group, i. e. the number of staff with more than notably in nuclear, oil and gas, power a years service at the end of the financial and aerospace.
year as a percentage of the headcount at the beginning of the financial year for the Group as a whole and for each major business.
Our performance in this measure of the retention of experienced staff compares very well with most large professional services businesses with Monthly headcount an index of 84.3% for the Group as a whole 2008: 82.2%.
17,000 We continued to monitor feedback from staff who left Atkins in the year.
16,500 Encouragingly, over 80% would recommend Atkins as a place to work 16,000 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar and would consider working with us again at some point in their career.
Period end Adjusted for under notice at year-end 2008 09 average WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 16 Reviews Human Resources Review Our people Continued Employee engagement the 10 principal criteria is now well above We have improved our graduate During the year, we continued to invest the benchmark for the organisations development programme, responding in and develop two-way internal which use this survey.
Our performance to the results of a review undertaken one communications channels to enable us improved for each of the 10 factors and year ago.
The review highlighted many to share information to inspire, motivate for 29 of the 30 detailed questions.
examples of exemplary practice, but also and engage Atkins staff around the world some areas where we needed to do and to receive their feedback.
In particular, We were delighted to maintain our better, particularly in ensuring the we hosted a conference for 500 live position in the UKs Sunday Times Top 20 consistency of our delivery against the delegates and 9,000 online delegates to Best Big Companies award with an promise that we make to new graduate explain our vision to be the worlds best improved ranking of 10th.
This is particularly important infrastructure consultancy and to reinforce particularly pleasing since 2,500 of our given both the size of our graduate trainee our strategy of Identity Excellence.
We UK staff were invited to take part in this population, which now exceeds 1,000 have also launched a new intranet news anonymous survey, which is important in staff, and their importance to our future.
centre which has enabled us to deliver allowing us to compare our performance better quality information to staff in against other leading employers in our We have reviewed the training a more timely, appealing and accessible sector and more widely.
arrangements for all graduate trainees multi-media format.
Penetration statistics in conjunction with our staff and the show that significantly more people are Investment in people major professional institutions, and have receiving information about Atkins than The skills and capabilities of our people taken action to strengthen these where in previous years.
Staff therefore have are key to our success.
We have set up internal forums a greater understanding of our vision, placed on learning and development with to bring together both graduate trainees strategy, performance, values in action an annual investment in training of over and those responsible for their development and Group achievements than in previous 20m during the year.
More than 8,000 to ensure that good practice is shared and years, which contributes to our objectives delegates attended Group programmes high standards are maintained.
We have of motivating and retaining staff.
an increase of 10% on the year before.
also received accreditation for an Atkins Further Learning Programme by the Joint Most significantly, we measure employee Our portfolio of programmes was Board of Moderators to aid the progress engagement across the Group via our enhanced to ensure that they addressed of graduates with bachelor degrees to annual Viewpoint survey, an online survey the key issues of Carbon Critical Design chartered status.
open to all staff in the Group.
New and updated completed by 77% of staff and showed programmes were introduced including, During the year we also created 11 technical an improvement in the employee for example, a course on the leadership networks to encourage excellence and engagement index for the third consecutive of virtual and remote teams in recognition professional development in the areas of: year.
An employee engagement index of the fact that many projects now tall buildings: geotechnical engineering: of 75 represents excellent performance.
span geographic as well as internal carbon critical buildings: commercial due Furthermore, our performance in each of organisational boundaries.
diligence: masterplanning: strategic and policy planning: structural engineering: tunnelling: bridge engineering: internal Employee engagement index project management: and geospatial and integrated digital solutions.
Each 75 network is chaired by one of Atkins 74 most experienced professionals in each 73 of the disciplines.
72 71 70 69 68 67 66 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 17 Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work The Times, 2008 Winner National Graduate Recruitment Awards, Construction and Civil Engineering Sector Target Magazine, 2009 In addition, through our University Finally, we have commenced consultation Atkins has hosted a number of supplier Liaison Directors programme, our with approximately 400 staff in the Atkins events jointly with the ODA to encourage engagement with universities has continued section of the Railways Pension Scheme more SMEs to do business with us and to grow and develop.
Atkins currently to provide a voluntary lower-cost option is currently working with the London has relationships with 16 universities in as an alternative to significantly increased Development Agency and LOCOG to the UK, 10 in the USA, two in China, member and employer contributions.
maximise the benefits of a self-assessment two in Singapore and one in Dubai.
tool Diversity Works for London.
These actions together with previously Reward announced increases to employer We have forged closer links with Scope, We continue to monitor our remuneration contributions have significantly reduced a charity working for disabled peoples practices to ensure that we reward people the risks associated with our defined equality, and have recruited our first competitively in each of the markets and benefit liabilities.
graduate trainee through their leadership regions in which we operate.
We have also taken on our year, we saw a significant decline in wage Diversity first recruits through Total Support, an inflation and took a decision in January Atkins operates as a local company employment agency which specialises to defer the annual Group-wide salary which needs to reflect the diversity of its in placing people with disabilities or review from April to October 2009. community in several regions and which requiring rehabilitation.
This should allow us to take considered recruits from most parts of the world.
We decisions regarding pay levels against assemble teams which cross geographical Our business in the Middle East employs a more stable and predictable outlook and cultural boundaries and compete for staff of over 40 different nationalities than would otherwise have been the case.
skilled staff in highly competitive markets, and in the UK we continue to work so we need to ensure that we are making closely with the UK Resource Centre for In the context of the decision to defer the the most of the varied talents of our Women in Science and Engineering to annual pay review, our executive directors people.
During the year we held diversity contribute to the governments agenda and chairman have waived 10% of their training sessions for the Board and for increasing participation in engineering monthly salary payments from 1 April 2009.
In addition, in response to local market conditions, a 10% pay reduction has been We have made progress in several areas Encouragingly we are seeing a shift in implemented for staff in the Middle East through internal initiatives and through attitudes and clear evidence of progress and Ireland, taking account of significant our collaboration with clients and with with increasing numbers of women pay deflation in these markets.
represented at most levels of the organisation but realise we have a We reviewed the operation of our bonus Of particular note is our collaboration journey to complete.
and incentive arrangements, which we with the Olympic Delivery Authority believe continue to operate well and ODA where we have worked closely effectively, against current best practice.
with colleagues in the ODA, the London Our executive bonus scheme now covers Organising Committee of the Olympic and more than 800 people.
In addition, Paralympic Games LOCOG and other approximately 30% of our staff will delivery partners to ensure that we reflect benefit from a discretionary bonus the diversity objectives of the Games award to recognise individual contribution in the work we undertake and in the and performance.
This has included support for a diversity week run by ODA We have made additional progress with and LOCOG to which we invited a the restructuring of the Groups defined Paralympics sailing team to share their benefit pension arrangements with experiences with our project team: a further reduction in the number of community engagement to raise money members accruing benefits in the Atkins to send 250 London children to a Stoke pension plan in the UK and the closure Mandeville sports camp: and the to future accrual of the McCarthy plan development of a diversity education in Ireland.
programme to be rolled out across Atkins using a theatre company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
