46 Governance Board of Directors Ed Wallis Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Ed Wallis 69 was appointed a director Keith Clarke 57 was appointed a director Robert MacLeod 45 was appointed in September 2004, taking up the post in October 2003.
He is a chartered Group finance director in June 2004. of chairman in January 2005.
He joined the Group from A chartered accountant, he joined the chartered engineer.
He was the founding Skanska AB where he was executive vice Group as Group financial controller in chief executive of Powergen where he president responsible for its activities in March 2003 having previously worked also held the position of chairman before the UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and in a variety of senior financial roles at retiring in 2003.
Prior to this he gained China.
He has over 30 years experience Enterprise Oil plc.
He is currently a more than 30 years of experience working in construction and engineering, having non-executive director of Aggreko plc.
for the Central Electricity Generating previously worked for the City of New A graduate of Cambridge University, he Board.
He has a wide range of other York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar House trained at KPMG.
Robert will leave the board-level experience including the and Kvaerner.
He is chairman of the Board and the Company on 19 June 2009. chairmanship of Lucas Varity and London Construction Industry Council, having Underground.
He was invited to become previously chaired its Health and Safety Heath Drewett a companion of the British Institute of Committee.
He is also an advisory board Group Finance Director elect Management in 1994 and in 1997 member of the Built Environment Heath Drewett 43 was appointed an became a fellow of the Royal Academy Innovation Centre at Imperial College, executive director with effect from of Engineering.
In 1996 he was awarded London, a member of the Supporters 15 June 2009, and will take over as honorary doctorates by both Brunel at Large Group for Open House and Group finance director on 19 June 2009.
He patron of the Environmental Industries A graduate in mathematics from became chairman of the Natural Commission.
He is a member of the Peterhouse, Cambridge, he started his Environment Research Council in 2006.
career at  where He is chairman of the Nomination he qualified as a chartered accountant.
Committee and a member of the Alun Griffiths He has held a variety of senior finance and Remuneration Committee.
Executive Director corporate development roles at British Alun Griffiths 54 was appointed Airways plc and The Morgan Crucible a director in March 2007.
He has spent the past background in management consultancy seven years in BAs finance team, most and has led a wide range of projects in recently holding the position of head of the areas of restructuring, organisational business performance.
development and privatisation in the UK and internationally.
He is an economics graduate and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
He was appointed Group HR director in February 2003.
Alun chairs the Industry Board of the UK Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Technology UKRC, an organisation charged with progressing the governments strategy for increasing the participation of women in science and engineering.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Governance 47 James Morley Fiona Clutterbuck Dr Raj Rajagopal Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director James Morley 60, a chartered Fiona Clutterbuck 51 was appointed Raj Rajagopal 55 was appointed a accountant, was appointed a a non-executive director in March 2007. non-executive director in June 2008. non-executive director in 2001.
He She is a managing partner within a He held several positions at BOC Edwards is a non-executive director of The business that owns and controls Pearl before being appointed chief executive, Innovation Group plc, Costain Group PLC, insurance group.
Fiona has substantial a position he held until November 2006.
Clarkson PLC and Speedy Hire Plc.
He experience in all areas of corporate He was an executive director of the was previously chief operating officer of finance, including a particular focus on the BOC Group plc until November 2006 Primary Group Limited and also previously financial institutions sector, gained during and is a non-executive director of Dyson finance director at Cox Insurance Holdings 15 years at Hill Samuel and HSBC and Group plc, Bodycote plc and Spirax-Sarco plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, Guardian latterly seven years at ABN AMRO.
Raj is also chairman of Royal Exchange plc and Avis Europe plc.
Fiona has advised on a wide range of HHV Pumps Private Ltd. Raj is a fellow He is senior independent director, transactions in many countries, including of the Institution of Engineering and chairman of the Audit Committee and mergers and takeovers, public company Technology IET, a fellow of the Royal a member of the Remuneration and acquisitions and fundraisings, and public Academy of Engineering, a fellow of Nomination Committees.
James will and private company sales and flotations.
the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, retire from the Board on 30 June 2009.
Fiona has an LLB Hons from the a fellow of the Chartered Institute of University of London and qualified as Management and a fellow of the Institute a barrister in 1980.
She is a member of Directors.
He is also an Audit Admiral the Lord Boyce of the Audit, Nomination and Commissioner and a member of the Non-executive Director Remuneration Committees.
Advisory Board of the Centre for Business Lord Boyce 66 was appointed a Research of Cambridge University.
He non-executive director in May 2004.
He was awarded an honorary doctor of had a distinguished career in the Royal Joanne Curin science degree by Cranfield University in Navy and the Ministry of Defence MoD Non-executive Director 2004 and the IETs IEE Eric Mensforth that culminated in his becoming First Sea Joanne Curin 51 was appointed a International Gold Medal for outstanding Lord, professional head of the Royal Navy, non-executive director in February 2009. contribution to manufacturing technology in 1998: and then Chief of Defence Staff, She is a chartered accountant and has and management in 2003.
He is a professional head of the Armed Forces, a broad range of international experience member of the Remuneration from 2001 to 2003.
He was elevated to gained during her career as a senior and Nomination Committees.
the peerage in 2003 and was appointed finance executive for large scale Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque organisations in the property and Ports and Constable of Dover Castle in construction, oil and gas, pulp and paper, Sir Peter Williams 2004.
He is a non-executive director of shipping and logistics sectors.
She has Non-executive Director VT Group plc.
He is a member of the worked in the UK, New Zealand and Sir Peter Williams 64 was appointed Remuneration and Nomination Committees Australia and more recently held finance a non-executive director in May 2004. and he will succeed James Morley as senior director roles for both Lend Lease He graduated from Cambridge University independent director on 30 June 2009.
She is currently with an MA and PhD in physics and a director of Intelligent Engineering initially pursued an academic career at Holdings, which has developed and is Cambridge and subsequently at Imperial commercialising a composite material College, London.
After a period with technology for use in heavy engineering VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford structures.
She is a member of the Audit Instruments plc in 1982.
He became its and Nomination Committees.
Joanne will chief executive in 1985 and was chairman succeed James Morley as chair of the from 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
He is chairman of the National Physical Laboratory and a non-executive director of GKN plc.
Sir Peter was elected as fifth chancellor of the University of Leicester on 21 October 2005.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2009
