annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review Market overview The global market for business processing services continues to be attractive.
IDC forecasts a US$36 billion increase in the market size to US$148 billion over the next four years.
Most of this growth is expected to occur in the geographic markets where Xchanging now operates.
Accelerating adoption of BPO Regulatory changes Growing global market Xchanging is well placed to take companies, especially those in the The global trends for BpO are positive.
advantage of the rapid growth forecast insurance and banking and securities We see opportunities within our customer in the global BpO market.
We believe that services sectors, have recently witnessed base and in this growing global market.
changing market needs will accelerate the substantial regulatory changes.
We adoption of BpO and put Xchanging in expect to see further changes in this Below are the key industry trends a strong competitive position.
area that will demand cost-intensive and forecasts for Xchangings markets compliance solutions.
We have significant and services.
Evolution of BPO services opportunities to provide technologycompanies are starting to move beyond enabled shared infrastructure and services Europe tactical measures and are seeking to our customers enabling them to avoid consistent with the trends reported structural solutions for their non-core investment while remaining compliant by industry commentators, german operations.
We are seeing considerable at lower costs.
banks experienced lower retail securities interest from existing and new customers volumes in 2009 as consumers stayed who are looking to reduce costs and an example of this is Solvency ii, which is out of the market.
Banks also cut back minimise investment in their non-core one of the biggest regulatory changes the on discretionary spend in order to protect operations.
insurance industry has ever seen.
These their overall financial and cash positions.
changes demand sophisticated technology There is also an increasing demand for to implement complex financial models.
There are opportunities in the funds global services.
We are one of only a Xchanging has the technology platforms administration and securities businesses handful of companies able to provide and proven expertise to manage such as the market continues to consolidate.
services to multinational customers on a complex changes on behalf of our There is also an increased interest in BpO global basis.
Our global presence spreads customers.
We are already ahead of from the insurance and manufacturing our geographic risk, while our regional the market in the development of a sectors in germany.
structure positions us strongly to seize comprehensive and cost-effective these global opportunities.
We see significant in italy, opportunities in the banking demand for such ip-led business sector procurement, securities processing, Increasing role of technology processing services in 2010. fund administration and investment as business processing services assume account administration are expected a broader strategic role within companies, Recovering global economy to open up from 2010 onwards.
customers are increasingly looking for The slowdown in economic activity in fully-integrated suites of services that 2009 had an adverse effect on certain The market for hR services was can safely cater to scale and efficiency parts of our business.
customers have adversely affected as companies reduced demands.
in a global operating continued to defer discretionary spend, recruitment, training and relocation environment this requires, among other particularly in iT services.
Volumes in order to reduce employment costs.
in the german banking sector were Moving into 2010, we see similar trends.
We continue to develop Xchangings also subdued.
This slowdown was demand will depend on the state of the distinctive ip to respond to the changing consistent with the trends reported by economy and is unlikely to pick up in the needs of our customers.
Examples of this industry commentators such as idc.
UK until the second half of the year, at include our platforms in the insurance and Encouragingly, the market is expected the earliest.
banking and securities services sectors.
to bounce back over the next few years.
See page 3 We expect to benefit from higher levels of transaction and discretionary spend as the global economy recovers.
12 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 during 2010, we will look to expand our Asia Pacific Future opportunities with multinational, hR services portfolio into the USa and china and india remain the growth regional and local banks, insurance and australia to meet the growing demand engines of asia pacific and their recovery fund management groups are expected for broader employment services such as has, to a certain extent, insulated to be centred around lessons learned back-to-work and medical compensation australia from the recession.
The fastfrom the financial crisis, such as focusing schemes.
growing australian BpO market presents on core competencies and driving significant opportunities in banking, funds transparency in business.
in insurance, we expect commercial administration superannuation and insurance companies to continue to invest procurement where Xchanging is a strong Global Procurement in infrastructure and to look for ways of player in Europe.
The claims processing an increasing number of companies are reducing back-office costs.
We see strong sector in australia is fragmented and looking to re-invent their procurement latent demand for insurance processing dominated by insurance companies.
processes in order to get better control services globally.
Therefore, there is significant opportunity over bought-in spend and achieve to grow in this market.
sustainable cost savings over time.
USA The effective delivery of these services The weak US economy in 2009 resulted in india, there is an emerging domestic needs global expertise and a balanced in both reduced iT outsourcing spend market opportunity in the financial onshore offshore model.
and weak demand for discretionary services space.
in addition, Singapore has services.
however, the US continues to started to recover as the financial services procurement is projected to be a fastbe the largest BpO market in the world.
industry is showing signs of rebounding.
growing BpO service over the next few idc estimates the current size of the years.
We see opportunities for growth US BpO market to be c. US$70 billion Overall, as a result of their limited with existing and new customers.
and projected to grow to US$89 billion exposure to the US mortgage market, by 2013. local and multinational corporations in asia pacific performed well in 2009.
The BpO market for industry-specific processing looks attractive in 2010 1 Projected worldwide BPO spending by region with increased interest in insurance 148 US$ billion CAGR 2009 2013 7.1% and financial services.
137 127 Multi-line claims processing remains a 119 largely untapped market in the USa.
112 This market looks attractive for global players with deep industry expertise.
89 83 The life and annuity industry has 78 74 experienced significant change in 2009 70 due to the financial market crisis.
This has required the marketplace to refocus on product development and find ways of unlocking lower transaction costs against a back drop of increasing regulation and 30 29 27 27 25 24 23 22 22 high technology-based fixed costs.
20 given the restructuring of the US banking industry and increase in government 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 oversight, we are witnessing a return Americas EMEA Asia Pacific Worldwide to banks focusing on core products and services.
These strategic changes are Footnotes creating market opportunities for both 1 Source: idc, Market analysis: Worldwide and US Business process Outsourcing Services 2009 2013 Forecast: Worldwide BpO Services spending by region, doc #221272, 2009.
The graph shows total BpO and technology services.
spend for hR, procurement, finance and accounting, customer care and training in the americas, EMEa and asia pacific.
