annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review describing our business Xchanging is one of the largest and fastest growing business processors.
Our core business is re-inventing and operating our customers non-core or back-office activities.
Who we are Procurement Human resources HR Xchanging is one of the largest and We source in excess of 1 billion of We provide a complete set of fastest growing business processors.
spend on behalf of our customers.
These services With a wide range of multinational top categories of indirect spend include cover the entire employment life cycle customers in 42 countries and employing contract labour, travel, telecoms, facilities, from recruitment through to payroll and over 8,000 people, we are a truly global iT and office supplies.
We act either as an pensions payments.
Our aim is to provide company.
We deliver mission-critical, agent between the customer and the an integrated approach that uses the high-volume processing to our customers.
supplier, or we deliver a fully-managed underlying employment data in the wide Our aim is to provide a better service at service where we contract directly with variety of hR tasks and activities.
data lower cost than can be achieved internally.
suppliers, on-selling their goods or integrity and responsiveness is crucial services to our customers.
By leveraging to delivering reliable, high-quality hR listed on the london Stock Exchange in our supplier relationships and applying services.
We undertake the administrative 2007, Xchanging has almost doubled its our trading expertise and buying power, processing and manage the supply chain 1 revenues and more than doubled profits we drive savings to our customers for hR-related categories of spend such since our initial public offering ipO.
Key procurement customers as car schemes, medical assurance, company is in the FTSE 250, the index of include alexander Mann Solutions aMS, travel and training.
We provide expert mid-capitalised companies traded on the BaE Systems, national australia group advice on the various facets of hR, be london Stock Exchange.
Xchanging Europe nagE, caisse dEpargne part it pensions calculations, learning and is also a member of the FTSE4good index, of the Banque populaire caisse dEpargne development, performance measurement which measures the performance of group and Finmeccanica group.
or international recruitment, relocation, companies that meet globally-recognised immigration and tax compliance.
Finance & Accounting F&A Xchanging delivers hR and payroll services We process approximately 3.5 billion and support to 1.25 million employees What we do of payables and receivables accounts and pensioners and their dependents Our core business is re-inventing and and complex orders and invoices each across multiple locations and countries.
operating our customers non-core or year for our customers across a range of back-office activities.
We provide general payables We run a number of back-to-work and business processing services across a and receivables accounting and complex medical compensation schemes for a wide broad range of industries.
Our areas payments and settlement processing of an variety of customers in the USa, the UK of expertise include: industry-specific nature.
For example in australia, customers include Boots UK and london we manage the end-to-end process insurance market participants.
We also in placing employees back into the provide F&a services in the real estate workforce.
We manage this for 37,500 sector for cB Richard Ellis cBRE.
in 2009, we successfully returned 7,940 injured workers back to work.
Footnote 1 Xchangings share of underlying profit for the year.
2 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Technology Insurance services How we do it We design, build and run a range of Xchanging is one of the leading providers Our value proposition is based on building business processing solutions.
We embed of business processing services and economies of scale and standardising our intellectual property ip to create a software solutions to the insurance business processes.
We call this lean solution faster and more cost-effectively industry internationally.
Scale and standardisation are than customers can themselves.
We processing of insurance policies, essential to meet customer demands for host the software and hardware to run premiums and claims, and broking efficiency and better quality of service.
systems and provide the extensive data services.
in 2008, in partnership with the warehousing facilities needed by our london insurance market, we embarked Scale economies customers.
Our services are aimed at on an ambitious project of making this We generate economies of scale through companies that wish to use iT services market paperless through the insurers growing our processing platforms and to improve organisational effectiveness Market Repository iMR.
in 2009, we expanding our international footprint.
For instance, we have successfully implemented an upgraded We follow standard production designed, built and now operate one iMR.
The development of the iMR is a methodologies across all our processing of the most comprehensive suites of key part of the london insurance markets centres globally.
Our major processing insurance-related document management effort to achieve more efficient business centres are in london, Romford, Fulwood services in the world.
Key insurance services and chatham UK, Sossenheim and hof by the global participants of the london customers include lloyds, liberty Mutual germany, gurgaon, chennai, Shimoga insurance market.
Other key technology insurance Europe and ace.
and Bangalore india, Solon and chicago customers include QBE Europe, dhl and USa, Melbourne and Sydney australia.
in the americas, we provide claims processing services to companies for their Global Balancing Industry-specific services injured workers compensation as well We leverage the scale of our processing We also provide a range of industryas other areas such as professional, auto, centres by moving work around the globe specific services which draw on the above product, general and consumer warranty to take advantage of time zones and functional expertise, combined with deep liability claims.
Our services include the lower cost operations.
We sometimes industry domain knowledge.
initial claim intake, adjusting the claim, retain processes that are most critical to medical and non-medical bill review and the customer on-site, while transferring Banking and securities services claim payments.
Key customers include other processing to nearshore and in the banking and securities industry, Toyota and Mastercard.
This way we can we provide retail investment account we provide workers compensation maximise the benefits of aggregating management and securities processing and claims management services to processes and using lower cost resources.
By the end of 2010, we will Workcover new South Wales and it also allows us to provide 24-hour be the largest independent investment WorkSafe Victoria.
processing services to our customers.
account processor in germany, where we We call this global Balancing.
will administer approximately 1.5 million accounts on behalf of our Enterprise partnership Ep partner allianz global investors and additional customers such as SEB Bank and MEag MUnich ERgO  mbh MEag.
in securities processing our services include trades processing, corporate event processing, handling of corporate annual general meetings, regulatory reporting and tax services.
Key customers include deutsche Bank, TaRgOBanK part of crdit Mutuel Banking group and Sparda-Banken and netbank.
X c h a n g i ng plc 3 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review describing our business Quality one of which is a fully iSO 9001: 2008 Measurement Xchanging has a distinctive competence certified transaction bank.
a number of We have a rigorous performance in understanding how to meet global our operations in india, Europe and the measurement methodology.
For example, USa undergo SaS70 audits on an annual measure our performance regularly, Xchanging is the largest processor of basis.
in addition, Xchanging has achieved in great detail and in the same way acORd messages in the world: we cMMi v1.1 level 5 in the majority of our across our processing centres globally.
have two recognised banks in germany indian processing centres.
For example, our monthly service report each with a full banking licence, measures thousands of data points across hundreds of processes, measuring not Quality standards only quantitative, but also qualitative Xchanging has a number of certifications and recognitions which illustrate the importance we outputs, such as customer satisfaction, place on delivering services at the highest quality.
service levels and the quality of processes.
Non industry-specific certifications and recognitions it is our belief that the customers own SAS 70 a number of our operations in india, perception of a service is just as important an auditing standard designed to enable an Europe and the USa undergo SaS 70 as the actual quantitative results.
independent auditor to evaluate and issue an audits on an annual basis.
These audits opinion on a service organisations controls.
cover the control environment, control activities, risk assessment processes, How we contract information and communication processes, We offer services through a range of and monitoring processes.
Partnering and Outsourcing contracting ISO Xchanging has iSO 9001, iSO 9001: 2008, mechanisms.
in Partnering we share the iSO develops voluntary technical standards iSO 27001 and iSO 27001: 2005 in india: profit and capital upside from productivity which serve to safeguard consumers and iSO 9001: 2000, iSO 27001: 2005 and general users of products and services.
improvements, scale advantages and CMMi Xchanging has achieved cMMi v1.2 entrepreneurship with our customers.
capability Maturity Model integration level 3 and cMMi v1.1 level 5 in a The upside is split 50:50 so that our cMMi helps integrate traditionally number of our indian operations and interests are aligned with those of our separate organisational functions, set process has achieved cMMi v1.2 level 3 partners.
in Outsourcing we typically lift improvement goals and priorities, provide in Singapore.
guidance for quality processes, and provide a customers business processes, or backa point of reference for appraising current office function, and shift them onto one 1 processes.
of our existing platforms to offer better Industry-specific certifications and recognitions and cheaper processing.
ACORD Xchanging is the largest processor acORd Standards allow different companies of acORd messages.
How we are structured to transact business electronically with acORd certifications include: Our vision is to be the global business agents, brokers and other data partners in Technical accounts and Financial processor of choice.
To provide the insurance, reinsurance and related accounts, claim Movement messages, financial services industries.
They serve as and document transmission.
global coverage, we have structured a common communication method for use ourselves into four regions with strong by multiple parties, thereby increasing the management teams in the UK, the 2 efficiency of the entire industry.
americas, continental Europe and Others Xchanging has two full banking licences asia pacific.
Xchanging was voted Technology provider of the year in 2009 by global Broker and UK Underwriter, one of the leading magazines in the UK, we provide cross-industry for the international insurance and services including insurance processing reinsurance markets.
services, human resources, finance and in the USa, Xchanging has 283 adjusters licensed in 39 states, resulting in 2,994 accounting, and technology services.
Xchangings Solon USa site obtained a Americas payment card industry pci certification in the americas, we provide cross-industry which includes requirements for security management, policies and procedures.
iT products and services, alongside both workers compensation and other Sources 18 February 2010 1 cMMi definition: Software Engineering institute www.
specialist insurance claims processing 2 acORd Standards definition: acORd insurance data Standards www.
org Standards services for customers across the USa.
4 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Continental Europe Our global presence in continental Europe, we provide industry-specific processing services to the banking and securities industry.
Asia Pacific in the asia pacific region, we provide offshore business processing services such as accounting, pension administration and broking services to a range of crossindustry customers.
We also provide workers compensation claims processing services in australia and technology products and services in Singapore.
Global operating model To ensure that we operate in a standard way globally, we have a supporting global performance infrastructure and operating model.
We manage our procurement business across regions to benefit from trading synergies and the sharing of know-how.
See page 25 for the number of employees in each of the our regions.
Why customers choose Xchanging Global footprint Serve multinational customers in 42 countries across a broad range of industries.
Offer a range of business processing services across multiple industries Breadth of services and geographies.
Functional and industry provide a combination of functional business processing expertise and deep industry expertise domain knowledge.
provide our customers with the flexibility to engage with Xchanging in ways that suit Flexible contracting mechanisms their shortor long-term requirements.
have received industry awards and world-class certifications demonstrating our focus Track record of quality on quality.
have a 10-year track record of continued reliable service and responsiveness to our Stable supplier customers needs.
have experienced senior management teams with access to a vast pool of global talent Strong management both within Xchanging and in the external market.
