annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance Our management team The Xchanging Management Boards XMB experience and capabilities reflect the diverse nature of the Company.
The XMB is collectively responsible for developing and delivering the strategy and the annual budget.
in the past 12 months, the XMB has grown from eight to 10 members.
This has been necessary due to Xchangings growth following the acquisition of cambridge and its subsequent re-alignment as a global business processor.
David Andrews Paddy Byrne Matthias Sohler Chief Executive Officer Head of UK Head of Continental Europe david founded Xchanging in 1999.
For paddy joined Xchanging in 2006 and was Matthias joined Xchanging in January most of his career he has specialised in iT appointed head of UK on a permanent 2009 as head of continental Europe.
he brings international basis in november 2009, when he he brings more than 16 years of banking experience, having worked in africa, joined the XMB, having previously led and business processing experience in the UK, the USa, France, germany, Xchangings hosting business.
he brings the financial services industry.
prior to Scandinavia and australia.
previously, over 25 years experience working in the joining Xchanging, he was a member he was partner at andersen consulting lloyds and london insurance markets, of the Senior Executive committee accenture for 14 years, a Board member with alexander howdens, QBE and of the Unicredit group and on the of andersen Worldwide and a Board Sphere drake.
he also worked for Viag management board of Bayerische member of deutsche Brse, chairing their interkom in germany, where he was hypo-und Vereinsbank ag.
at Unicredit technology committee for five years.
david responsible for delivering the mobile group he was deputy head of global is a Fellow of the chartered institute of telephone platform.
paddy has served Operations responsible for the operating accountants, has an Ma from Sheffield at her Majestys Revenue and customs model, sourcing, cost containment and University and is a William pitt Fellow of as a member of the Technology Services real estate.
Matthias has a Masters in pembroke college, cambridge.
he has also served on the advisory Business Economics.
Board of ciO connect, the leading affinity Richard Houghton group for chief information Officers in Kerry Purcell Chief Financial Officer the UK.
Head of Asia Pacific Richard joined Xchanging in 1999 and Kerry joined Xchanging in november was appointed chief Financial Officer Steven Beard 2009.
Based in Sydney, he is responsible in September 2003. he brings diverse Head of the Americas for spearheading Xchangings growth finance experience having worked in a Steven joined Xchanging in 2002 and in the asia pacific markets and brings wide range of industries and in multiple moved to the USa in 2009 to become with him rich leadership experience geographies including Europe, the USa head of the americas, responsible for across multiple cultures.
he has worked and australia.
prior to joining Xchanging, delivering the regional strategy and extensively in the asian markets: his Richard worked as chief Executive financial performance.
Steven brings a most recent role as Vice president and Officer of the industrial products division strong finance and leadership background Managing director asia pacific for of caradon plc, and as a consultant at coupled with an extensive knowledge hp EdS.
Kerry successfully led the Mckinsey & company for five years.
he of Xchangings business processes.
integration of hp EdS services group began his career at Esso.
he holds an Steven started his career in finance across greater china, Korea and South MBa from harvard and graduated with and has held director-level positions East asia.
prior to that, he led the a degree in chemical Engineering from in insurance, technology and venture Japanese business division for hp EdS.
Stevens previous roles he has also worked with Telstra and included Finance director of a division of Telecom nZ group with senior sales and Xl capital, and Executive director and marketing responsibilities.
chief Financial Officer of a venture capital plc.
Steven is a Fellow of the association of chartered certified accountants.
32 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 David Rich-Jones Thomas Runge Head of Global Procurement Global Head of Production david joined Xchanging in 2000 and is Thomas joined Xchanging in 2004 and is responsible for delivering the segments responsible for driving the lean processor strategy and financial performance.
Thomas brings prior to Xchanging, david was group experience of managing various largepurchasing director at caradon plc, scale operations and projects, such as Vice president of global purchasing the migration of citibanks german retail at SmithKline Beecham, and group processing to Xchanging.
Thomas started purchasing director iT for national his career at deutsche Bank in Frankfurt Westminster Bank plc.
he is past president and has also worked for Salomon of the chartered institute of purchasing Brothers and citibank where he held and Supply.
he has a degree in Business various positions in projects, operations Studies and holds a diplme Suprieur and iT management.
Thomas holds a fide la chambre fide commerce fide paris.
Daniel Kasmir Dilip Keshu Group HR Director Group Head of Relations daniel joined Xchanging in July 2009. dilip joined Xchanging in January 2009 he brings with him a wealth of experience when it acquired a controlling interest working with large global organisations in cambridge.
dilip spent his early years across a range of industries.
he has held working in a large aerospace firm before senior hR positions at Shell, Manpower, moving into senior management roles in The caudwell group and BdO.
his companies like Baan and cincom Systems.
specialist hR background, strategic and as an entrepreneur, he has lived, worked operational experience and knowledge and built businesses in various parts of will be invaluable in engaging our asia, the UK and the USa.
he utilises geographically diverse workforce as well all these experiences to perform his role as ensuring our hR operations are leading at Xchanging as a specialist in global edge.
daniel holds a degree in Economics enterprise partnering.
he holds a and international Relations from the Masters degree from iiT Madras.
