annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance Board of directors The Board will continue to review its composition to ensure continuing alignment with Xchangings organisation into four regions UK, the Americas, Continental Europe and Asia Pacific.
The Directors and their expertise are set out below.
With the resignation in September 2009 of Tom Tinsley, the composition of the Xchanging Board moved to full compliance with the combined code June 2008.
The search commenced in 2009 for an additional non-Executive director to strengthen the Boards experience in relation to continental Europe, reaching fruition on 1 January 2010 with the appointment of Michel paulin.
The group Board currently comprises a chairman, two Executive directors and five other non-Executive directors.
3 3 Nigel Rich David Andrews Richard Houghton Chairman, Age: 64 Chief Executive Officer, Age: 60 Chief Financial Officer, Age: 51 Joined the Board as non-Executive Founded Xchanging and has served as Joined the group in 1999 and was deputy chairman in november 2006 chief Executive Officer of the group since appointed chief Financial Officer in 2003. and was appointed chairman in 2008. inception.
he is also Executive chairman he is also Vice chairman of cambridge he also chairs the Boards nominations of cambridge Solutions limited.
nigel is currently chairman was formerly a Board member of the chief Executive Officer of the of Segro plc and a non-Executive director andersen Worldwide and the Managing industrial products division at caradon of pacific assets Trust plc, Matheson partner of andersen consulting West plc.
he completed an MBa at harvard & co ltd, castle asia alternative pcc Europe.
he is a Fellow of the institute and subsequently spent five years working ltd and Bank of the philippine islands of chartered accountants, a William pitt in consulting at McKinsey & company.
his previous roles include Fellow of pembroke college, cambridge chairman of Exel plc, cp Ships and and a member of the pcc of holy Richard has worked in a wide range of hamptons group ltd, Managing director Trinity Brompton.
industries and in multiple geographies of Jardine Matheson holdings ltd and including Europe, USa and australia, and chief Executive of Trafalgar house plc.
he david founded Xchanging and provides provides diverse financial and operational has worked in South africa, the UK, the global leadership to the group, combined experience to the group.
USa and spent more than 20 years in the with extensive knowledge of business Far East.
he is a chartered accountant and processing and outsourcing.
was awarded a cBE in 1995. nigel is an experienced company chairman, providing broad international business and leadership experience.
Footnotes The numbers relate to the various committees as follows: 1 member of the audit committee 2 member of the Remuneration committee 3 member of the nominations committee 4 member of the corporate Social Responsibility committee chairman of the committee 34 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 1 2 3 Stephen Brenninkmeijer Dennis Millard Pat ODriscoll Non-Executive Director, Age: 53 Senior Non-Executive Director, Age: 61 Non-Executive Director, Age: 50 Joined the Board in 2000 as a Joined the Board in 2005 as a nonJoined the Board in november 2008 non-Executive director and chairs Executive director and is currently the as a non-Executive director and is the corporate Social Responsibility chairman of the audit committee and currently chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Stephen is currently a Senior independent director.
pat is currently a director Board member of responsability Social currently chairman of both halfords of Maltby capital limited and an investment ag in Zurich Switzerland, group plc and Smiths news plc, and a Operational Managing director with deputy chairman of the Enterprise non-Executive director and chairman of Terra Firma capital partners ltd where Education Trust based in london and the audit committee of debenhams plc.
she oversees EMis portfolio investment.
a director of both Optinose ltd and he is Senior independent non-Executive She was chief Executive Officer of porticus UK.
director and chairman of the audit northern Foods plc and ran Shells committee of premier Farnell plc.
he was European retail business.
She is also a Stephen provides broad international previously Finance director of cookson Trustee of the cherie Blair Foundation business experience, particularly of the group plc.
he holds an MBa from the for Women and mentors young women Far East, having worked for c&a in the gSB of cape Town University and is a in business.
UK, continental Europe and Japan.
member of the South african institute of chartered accountants.
pat has large multi-national company Johannes Maret management experience, providing Non-Executive Director, Age: 59 dennis provides current and relevant valuable insight into developing and Joined the Board in 2003 as a nonexperience on financial issues and broad implementing Xchangings international Executive director.
Johannes is currently international business experience.
Managing director of Maret gmbh 1 3 and is advisory Board chairman of Bex Michel Paulin Beteiligungs gmbh and gebr Rhodius Non-Executive Director: Age: 49 gmbh & co Kg.
he is a non-Executive Joined the Board on 1 January 2010 director of both Mlp ag and the as a non-Executive director.
Michel is investment committee of Triton Managers currently chief Operating Officer at the ltd, and Managing partner of Weingut louis dreyfus groups major commodity Reverchon Kg.
he was formerly a partner trading business.
he is also a nonin, and chief Financial Officer of, Sal.
Executive director of Myriad group ag, Oppenheim jr, where he was responsible Switzerland.
Michel recently held the for banking and administration and a position of deputy chief Executive Officer member of the supervisory board of of neuf Telecom cegetel.
Michel is an experienced French business Johannes provides essential insight leader, providing knowledge and and advice on the german financial guidance to assist Xchangings growth, services industry.
