annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial Directors and their interests statements of the group for the year ended 31 december 2009. details of changes to the Board during the year, and up to the date of this report, are set out on pages 41 and 42.
Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the group is the provision of a range details of directors service contracts are set out in the directors of industry-specific processing services to the banking and remuneration section on page 50. insurance industries as well as procurement, finance and accounting, human resources and technology services across The interests of the directors in the shares and share options industries.
The company acts as a holding company for of the company are shown on pages 52 and 53. the group.
Significant agreements The chairmans statement, chief Executive Officers statement, The key customer and supplier contracts and other operational and financial review and performance reviews for arrangements essential to the group are described throughout the groups main businesses, on pages 2 to 31, provide the business review.
Xchanging does not consider itself to be detailed information on the group and its strategy, the operation dependent on a single key supplier.
of the businesses, and the results and financial position for the year ended 31 december 2009.
These report on the principal Significant agreements change of control risks and uncertainties facing the group, post balance sheet Upon a change of control as variously defined in the respective events, trends and economic factors impacting the business agreements outlined below of Xchanging plc, a number of and likely future developments.
The information in the business significant agreements take effect, alter or terminate as follows: review meets the requirements of the companies act 2006 and forms part of the directors report.
Customer service agreements Under the terms of the following service agreements, the Results and dividends customer may elect to continue to receive such services, or The profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders alternatively terminate the contract: was 7,390,000 2008: 29,155,000.
On 28 February 2010, a. the agreement for the provision of human resource services the Board approved the payment of a 2009 interim dividend by Xchanging hR Services ltd to BaE Systems plc, entered of 2.75 pence per share 2008: 2.5 pence to be paid on into on 19 april 2001 as amended on 16 January 2007 1 april 2010.
The total dividend recommended is anticipated b. the agreement for the provision of securities transaction to be 6,520,707, based on the total shares in issue as at services by Xchanging Transaction Bank gmbh XTB to 1 March 2010.
Oppenheim partners jr. & cie. Kgaa, entered into on 29 december 2004 Research and development c. the agreement for the provision of claims handling, payment The group incurs development costs in the design of processes and settlement services by Xchanging Broking Services ltd and systems that substantially improve those already installed in XBS to aon limited aon, entered into on 9 august 2006. the Enterprise partnerships and used in other parts of the group, which include business process mapping, process re-organisation and software development.
Research and development is discussed further in capital expenditure, depreciation and amortisation under group performance on page 20.
The amount capitalised in the year in respect of development expenditure was 7,765,000 2008: 8,137,000.
Charitable donations donations towards various international, national and local charities amounted to 36,060 during the year 2008: 25,000. no donations have been made to political parties.
36 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Enterprise Partnership shareholder agreements Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of Under the terms of certain Enterprise partnership shareholders the financial statements and auditors agreements, the Enterprise partner may elect to exercise options The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, over the shares in the Enterprise partnership, for a share value as the remuneration report and the financial statements in variously defined in the respective agreements.
The agreements accordance with applicable law and regulations.
are as follows: a. deutsche Bank ag dB may elect to call Xchangings shares company law requires the directors to prepare financial in XTB under the terms of the shareholders agreement, statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors entered into between dB and Xchanging holdco no.
3 ltd, have elected to prepare the group financial statements in on 26 May 2004 accordance with international Financial Reporting Standards b. aon may elect to put its own shares to Xchanging, or iFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent call Xchangings shares in XBS under the terms of the company financial statements in accordance with United shareholders agreement, entered into between aon and Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice United Xpanse ltd, on 9 august 2006 Kingdom accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under c. allianz global investors  mbh agi company law, the directors must not approve the financial may elect to call Xchangings shares in Fondsdepot Bank statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair gmbh under the terms of the shareholders agreement, view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and entered into between agi and XTB, on 21 august 2007. of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
in preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Revolving credit facility select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Under the terms of the 111.4 million revolving credit facility consistently: provided by a syndicate of banks to Xchanging plc, entered into make judgements and accounting estimates that are on 31 July 2009, the majority of lenders may elect to continue reasonable and prudent: to provide such facility, or alternatively cancel it and require all state whether applicable iFRS, as adopted by the European monies borrowed under such facility to be repaid.
Union EU and applicable UK accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Share schemes and explained in the group and parent company financial Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 performance Share statements respectively: plan pSp, all pSp awards will vest, normally pro rata to the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis period of time from grant compared to three years, and are unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Under the terms of each of the Xchanging BV approved Share The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Option plan, the Xchanging BV Unapproved Share Option plan, records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys the Xchanging BV Unapproved g Share Option plan and the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Xchanging plc 2007 Executive Share Option plan, option holders the financial position of the company and the group and under each scheme will, with the agreement of the acquirer, enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the release their rights under option in exchange for the grant to remuneration report comply with the companies act 2006 and, them of rights to acquire shares of equivalent market value in as regards the group financial statements, article 4 of the iaS the acquirer.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 Executive Share reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Option plan, early exercise of options is permitted based on the other irregularities.
level of performance up to the date of the triggering event.
X c h a n g i ng plc 37 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance directors report continued The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Statement of disclosure of information to auditors of the companys website.
legislation in the United Kingdom in the case of each of the persons who are directors of governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the company at the date when the report was approved: statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed unaware in the section, Board of directors, on pages 34 and 35, each of the directors has taken all the steps he she ought confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: to have taken individually as a director in order to make the group financial statements, which have been prepared in himself herself aware of any relevant audit information accordance with iFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit that information.
of the group: and the business review and directors report contained in the Directors indemnities annual report includes a fair review of the development The companys articles of association contain a qualifying third and performance of the business and the position of the party indemnity provision as per the companies act 2006 that group, together with a description of the principal risks and provides that the company may pay for directors indemnities uncertainties that it faces.
See pages 2 to 40 out of its own assets.
The company has procured directors and officers insurance for this purpose.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Share capital Each of the directors confirm that, to the best of each persons at the date of this report, 237,116,600 ordinary shares of knowledge and belief: 5 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are the financial statements, prepared in accordance with admitted to trading on the london Stock Exchange.
applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial position and profit of The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary the group and company: and shares, as well as the powers of the companys directors are the directors report contained in the annual report includes set out in the companys articles of association, copies of which a fair review of the development and performance of the can be obtained from companies house or by writing to the business and the position of the company and group, company Secretary.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
There are no general restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the companys ordinary shares and the times by which proxies must be lodged are specified in the articles of association or on the transfer of ordinary shares.
no person holds ordinary shares in the company carrying special rights with regard to control of the company.
The company is not aware of any agreement between holders of ordinary shares that may result in restrictions on voting rights or on the transfer of ordinary shares.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of association of the company, the companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the companys shareholders.
The articles of association contain provisions governing the appointment, retirement and removal of directors.
38 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 The articles of association grant the company power to Minority interests purchase its own shares subject to specific authority being The minority interests in the groups subsidiaries at 31 december granted by the shareholders.
an authority to purchase ordinary 2009 are set out as follows: shares was granted at the annual general Meeting agM held on 21 May 2009. a resolution to renew this authority will be interest in Xchanging group Minority interest Enterprise partnership proposed at the agM in 2010, details of which are given in the The corporation of lloyds 25% interest in ins-sure notice of agM 2010.
The current authority is described in the holdings limited explanatory notes which accompanied the notice of agM 2009.
50% interest in Xchanging The details of the replacement authorities to be proposed at the claims Services limited agM in 2010 are given in the notice of agM 2010. international Underwriting 25% interest in ins-sure association holdings limited Substantial shareholders aon limited 50% interest in Xchanging On 24 February 2010, the company had been notified of the Broking Services limited following material or notifiable interests in its issued share capital deutsche Bank ag 44% interest in by persons other than the directors of the company: Xchanging etb gmbh Sal.
Oppenheim jr. 5% interest in number & cie. Kgaa Xchanging etb gmbh of shares percentage allianz global investors 49% interest in Fidelity investment Services limited 30,830,908 13.00%  mbh Fondsdepot Bank gmbh 1 2 general atlantic 23,539,226 9.99% artemis investment interest in other Minority interest Xchanging group companies Management limited 14,333,597 6.04% Breeden European partners Scandent holdings 24.0% interest in california l. p. 11,856,097 5.00% Mauritius ltd 11.8% cambridge Solutions Blackrock inc 10,889,394 4.60% Katra Finance limited 2.7% limited Standard life investments limited 10,653,817 4.50% aon Minet pension Scheme 3.8% Scandent holdings Mauritius limited 9,855,038 4.16% Other public 5.7% legal & general group plc l&g 7,504,271 3.16% The profits of the Xchanging group Enterprise partnerships in aegon asset Management 7,335,585 3.09% which the minorities have an interest are not necessarily shared in proportion to the shareholding interest in that company, as 1 The general atlantic group is the beneficial owner of 23,539,226 ordinary individual Enterprise partnerships have a distinct contractual shares of the company in aggregate.
The Managing directors of general method of profit share.
atlantic llc possess the sole power to vote and direct the disposition of shares held by the general atlantic group.
Therefore general atlantic llc has the indirect power to control in aggregate 23,539,226 ordinary shares which reflects 9.99% of the voting power.
The general atlantic holding includes general atlantic partners Bermuda l. p. 13,616,745 shares 5.78%.
2 general atlantic sold 15,553,854 shares in Xchanging on 9 September 2009.
This reduced general atlantics share in Xchanging to below the 10% threshold.
as a result, the Relationship deed between general atlantic and Xchanging, entered into on 24 april 2007 and described in Xchangings global Offer, ended.
consequently, Tom Tinsley, resigned his position as a non-Executive director of Xchanging and member of the Remuneration committee.
X c h a n g i ng plc 39 annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Governance directors report continued Employee involvement Auditors The group is committed to providing employees with a new audit partner at our auditors,  information on matters of concern to them on a regular basis.
llp pwc, was in place for the review of the interim Financial This is done to achieve a common awareness of financial and Statement and the statutory audit for 2009. given the economic factors affecting the performance of the group.
it also performance of the auditors, including the new partner during enables the views of employees to be taken into account when the course of the financial year, a resolution will be proposed making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
One at the 2009 agM to reappoint pwc for 2010 and also allow of the ways by which employees are involved with the groups the Board to set their remuneration.
The committee is satisfied performance is through Xchangings personal development that the external auditors remain independent and pwc have Review pdR process.
indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Equal opportunities Going concern The group is committed to employment policies which follow The Board has a reasonable expectation that the group and the best practice based on equal opportunities for all employees, company have adequate resources to continue in operation for irrespective of gender, race, nationality, colour, disability, marital the foreseeable future.
accordingly, the financial statements set status, sexual orientation, age or religion.
all decisions relating out on pages 54 to 118 have been prepared on the going to employment practices are objective, free from bias and based concern basis.
upon work criteria and individual merit.
it is the policy of the group to offer appropriate training and career development to Annual General Meeting disabled persons that are, as far as possible, identical to other The annual general Meeting of the company will be held at employees and in line with best practice.
in the event of a 34 leadenhall Street, london, Ec3a 1aX at 9.00am on Tuesday member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made by the 27 april 2010.
The notice convening the meeting, together with group to continue employment, arrange appropriate retraining details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes and offer opportunities for promotion.
for each resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
it is also available on the groups website.
Policy on payment of creditors The company aims to pay suppliers in accordance with the By order of the Board suppliers contract terms.
The company had an average of 36 days purchases outstanding 2008: 39 days outstanding in trade payables in 2009.
Gary Whitaker Policy on financial instruments company Secretary The policy with respect to financial instruments is covered in 1 March 2010 the accounting policy note 2 xiii on pages 66 and 67.
