annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review Our strategy delivering on our strategy To realise our vision and mission, we continue to follow our simple three-pronged strategy aimed at accelerating growth and becoming the global business processor of choice.
Strategic aims Progress in 2009 grow existing platforms 1. develop our existing customer created a customer-focused go-to-market approach with an emphasis on our top relationships in new geographies 280 customers.
agreed to acquire FondsServiceBank FSB which will add up to 460,000 accounts as 2. add processing volumes to the well as major customers such as MEag to our investment accounts processing platform.
functional and industry-specific provided the taxation processing to meet the german abgeltungssteuer regulatory platforms.
requirement for banks to deduct tax at source for german equities.
Extend the scope and service capabilities of our processing platforms.
add new platforms 1. add new customers and develop new acquired cambridge, which has provided significant US and asian footprints and 129 major platforms, or significantly extend existing new customers to our top 280 customers portfolio.
in addition, cambridge has provided a platforms through open-book gain-share claims processing platform with technology, over 250 qualified claims adjusters and medical agreements.
Make acquisitions which add international added our largest procurement contract to date with aMS managing 825 million spend scale and market access through new over five years to boost the volumes traded on our procurement platform.
customer relationships and functional Moved the existing largely paper-based insurance claims infrastructure to a highly electronic and industry-specific platforms.
digitised document management environment that is instantly accessible globally.
Exploit existing infrastructure and use domain expertise to create new platforms.
lean processor 1. develop a standard operating model integrated all cambridge processing centres and rolled out a global production approach.
that is repeatable across the regions, appointed a full-time global production director.
to provide services at internationally Established the major processing centres and aligned them to use the same processing competitive prices.
35% of workload delivered from offshore centres.
2. create a globally integrated infrastructure appointed a full-time head of Quality.
completed rigorous monthly quality reporting of processing centres which are operated exercises.
Maintained our global quality certifications.
Move workloads between centres to take advantage of spare capacity and arbitrage benefits.
14 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Objectives for 2010 and beyond Further reference describing our business increase the average revenue per top 280 customers and build the top 50 global customer see pages 2 to 5 relationships and range of offerings provided.
cEO statement, customer-focused approach continue to make small acquisitions to increase the scale and international reach of our see page 9 functional hR, procurement, accounting and hosting platforms and our industry-specific a year in review, continental Europe claims, investment accounts, securities and property management platforms.
see page 10 invest in global hR and procurement hubs to provide services cost-effectively internationally.
OFR, Segmental overview continue to invest in the industry-specific platforms to ensure that they are best-in-class.
see pages 22 and 23 Seek major new partnerships in the USa, Europe and asia pacific where we believe that the describing our business, insurance services Enterprise partnership offering is distinctive and appealing, given our track record of success see page 3 in the UK and germany.
cEO statement, Successful integration currently, there are no specific expectations to make another major acquisition.
in line with of our major acquisition our vision to become the global business processor of choice, we will keep the situation see page 8 under review.
a year in review, global procurement continue to develop our electronic repository and claims handling platform.
Specifically, see page 11 over time consolidate our US and australian medical, healthcare and credit card retail claims ip and expertise.
Become the global  claims processor of choice across a range of industry sectors beyond just insurance.
continue to standardise the processes to drive interoperability between the major describing our business processing centres.
see pages 2 to 5 Expand our lean processing centre in Shimoga a tier 3 indian city.
promote our cEO statement environmental agenda in this and all processing centres to reduce energy costs.
see pages 7 to 9 Make service quality the number one operational target for 2010.
