annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Business review a year in review During 2009, we continued to win new customers while expanding the services we offer our existing customers.
We firmly established our presence in the Americas and Asia Pacific, while continuing our growth in the UK and Continental Europe.
Below are some of the key highlights of the year.
UK Americas Continental Europe implemented an upgraded insurers integrated the cambridge business agreed to acquire FondsServiceBank Market Repository iMR See into Xchanging.
Re-organised the FSB in May 2009.
The iMR made a significant services to our customers to deliver investment account administration contribution to revenue growth in better claims outcomes and higher services business unit of daB bank ag 2009.
This has been a very successful quality with more consistent service.
and had revenues of over 40 million joint project with the london Market.
consolidated the US operations in 2008.
The migration of the as of december, the iMR had over from 45 locations into 16 primary investment accounts onto Fondsdepot nine million documents stored and processing centres and secondary Banks FdBs platform, expected to was receiving over 15,000 new sites.
complete in early 2010, will generate documents a day from over 6,000 Expanded our insurance software scale benefits through the registered users.
operations with a number of consolidation of up to 460,000 Signed a significant contract to significant new sales including a accounts.
Fondsdepot Bank, our provide insurance broking services new contract with QBE European modern, low-cost platform in hof, for aon Benfield, which was acquired Operations QBE, a longstanding germany, is our partnership with by aon during the year.
Xchanging will deliver a allianz global investors agi, additional volumes to Xchangings unified technology solution for QBEs which was established in 2007. broking platform.
European commercial property and Expanded this platform further delivered an increase in electronic casualty business.
This makes QBE in January 2010.
SEB Bank and trading volumes on the london Metal the first customer to benefit from SEB asset Management in germany Exchange lME.
This has enabled Xchangings new.
nET insurance chose Xchanging to administer their lMEs growth into new markets.
By the end of also increased the scope of services 2010, Xchanging will be the largest offered to the Market with lMEselect independent investment account clearing platform and lME SMaRT processing platform in germany.
Xchanging will manage approximately continued our work with cooper 1.5 million investment accounts, and gay to outsource and offshore backwill have around 30 billion of assets office processing functions via our under administration.
Xchanging Broking Services XBS completed the implementation of processing platform.
systems and processes with respect during 2009, Xchanging continued to additional functionality relating to provide a range of services to to the german withholding tax law Tokio Marine group, supporting their abgeltungssteuer.
This has led to operations through the delivery of an increase in the scope of services complex BpO processes.
Success in delivered to our customers.
this platform has led to an extension of the services to the wider Tokio Marine group.
10 X c h a n g i ng plc Business review Governance Financial statements Information annUal REpORT and accOUnTS 2009 Asia Pacific Global Procurement Renewed our workers compensation Signed Xchangings largest ever claims administration contract with procurement outsourcing contract the Workcover authority of new with aMS, a leading global South Wales.
This five-year contract recruitment process outsourcing replaces an earlier cambridge contract RpO provider.
This was also one which was entered into in 2006. of the largest contracts of its kind appointed to manage the workers in the industry.
The contract will see compensation claims for the Xchanging manage 825 million of Melbourne health Service, which indirect procurement spend over five includes the Royal Melbourne years on behalf of aMS.
hospital, the State of Victorias agreed a four-year contract extension first hospital.
The Melbourne with nagE which increased the health Service is the second largest potential level of spend managed by metropolitan health service in Victoria Xchanging.
Xchanging will continue with more than 8,000 employees.
to offer a full suite of sourcing and Xchanging will now handle over 50% procure-to-pay services to nagE, of the major metropolitan hospitals which it has done since July 2006 in the State of Victoria.
when nagE first became a customer.
achieved several iT outsourcing Signed a three-year procurement renewals including contracts with dhl outsourcing contract with SElEX and the government of Singapore.
SElEX Xchanging is an approved vendor to galileo is part of the Finmeccanica the government of Singapore and its group, one of italys leading industrial centre in Singapore has achieved a groups.
The contract commenced on cMMi v1.2 level 3.
1 January 2010 and Xchanging now manages indirect procurement spend of c. 17 million across a number of spend categories for SElEX galileo in the UK.
