Babcock International Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2009.
The Directors report is made up of pages 1 to 60 of this Annual Report, including: The Business review appearing on pages 1 to 33 this describes the Groups activities, likely future developments, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, key performance indicators and details of any important events since 31 March 2009: The Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 42 to 45 describing how the Company meets the requirements of the Combined Code and dealing with internal controls: The report of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 46 and 47: and The Remuneration report on pages 48 to 60. each of which is to be treated as part of the Directors report.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Chandos House, 2 Queen Anne Street, London W1G 9LQ on Thursday, 9 July 2009, at 11 am.
The notice of meeting is on pages 108 to 122 and explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed at it as special business are set out on page 113.
These resolutions relate to the giving of authority to Directors to allot and purchase Company shares, including as to rights issues, renewal of authority to make political donations as defined by legislation, proposals to introduce a new Performance Share Plan and a Company Share Option Plan applicable to Executive Directors and other employees and the notice period required for the calling of general meetings of the Company other than Annual General Meetings.
Results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 72.0 million 2008: 67.3 million.
An interim dividend of 4.00p per 60p ordinary share was declared in the year 2008: 3.30p.
The Directors propose to recommend the payment on 7 August 2009 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 July 2009 the Record Date of a final dividend of 10.40p 2008: 8.20p on each of the ordinary shares of 60p entitled thereto and in issue on the Record Date.
Directors Biographies of the current Directors of the Company are to be found on pages 34 and 35.
During the financial year the Directors who served were as follows: Director Service in the year to 31 March 2009 Mike Turner Chairman Joined the Board 1 June 2008: appointed Chairman 1 November 2008 Gordon Campbell former Chairman Retired 31 October 2008 Lord Hesketh Deputy Chairman Served throughout the year Peter Rogers Chief Executive Officer Served throughout the year William Tame Finance Director Served throughout the year John Rennocks Senior Independent Non-Executive Served throughout the year Dipesh Shah Non-Executive Served throughout the year Sir Nigel Essenhigh Non-Executive Served throughout the year Justin Crookenden Non-Executive Served throughout the year On 1 April 2009, Sir David Omand joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Dipesh Shah, who on 9 June 2009 will have served ten years as a Director, will be retiring from the Board at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Directors submit themselves for reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and at least every three years thereafter.
This is in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Directors submitting themselves for reappointment at this years Annual General Meeting will be Sir David Omand, Sir Nigel Essenhigh and Justin Crookenden.
In addition, Lord Hesketh, who has been a Director since 1993, also submits himself for reappointment on an annual basis as required by the Combined Code.
None of these Directors has a service agreement with the Company with an unexpired term, each having letters of appointment that are terminable at will at any time.
Their fellow Board members unanimously recommend members to vote in favour of the Non-Executive Directors standing for reappointment, having rigorously evaluated their performance and the contribution they make to the work and effectiveness of the Board.
The Accompanying Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting see page 112 explain why the Board is recommending their reappointment.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors interests in contracts At the date of this Report, there is no contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is significant in relation to the business of the Group as a whole in which a Director of the Company is materially interested.
Significant shareholdings As at 19 May 2009, the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major interests in voting rights attached to its ordinary shares which represent interests in 3% or more of its issued ordinary share capital.
Number of 60p Name ordinary shares % Schroders plc 20,123,434 8.76 Standard Life Investments Limited 15,502,125 6.75 Lloyds Banking Group plc 13,837,144 6.03 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 11,483,477 5.00 JP Morgan Chase & Co 11,376,214 4.95 Resolution Investment Services Limited 9,339,302 4.07 Legal & General Group plc 9,095,018 3.96 Employee share schemes The All Employee Share Ownership Plan The Company has an All Employee Share Ownership Plan, which is open to all UK employees including Executive Directors who meet the necessary service criteria.
Under the Plan, employees can buy Company shares in the market out of pre-tax income.
The Plan allows the Company to award free and or matching shares to participants, though the Company has not yet done so.
Shares are bought via a tax-approved employee trust which holds them on behalf of the individual participants.
The shares must generally be kept in trust for at least three years to obtain any tax advantages, and for five years to obtain maximum tax advantages.
The Babcock 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan the L-TIP This is the Plan that has been used since 2003 to make performance-linked share awards to a limited number of Directors and senior employees in the form of options granted at a nominal or nil price.
Further details of the Plan are to be found in the Remuneration report.
It is proposed, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to introduce a Performance Share Plan the PSP for use in place of the L-TIP.
Further details of the PSP can be found in the Remuneration report and in Appendix 1 to the Notice of Meeting on pages 115 to 118.
The Babcock 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the Babcock 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the 1999 Schemes Option grants under these Schemes were performance-linked.
No grants under these Schemes have been made to Directors since 2003 or to other employees since 2004.
The Schemes expire on 29 July 2009 after which no further grants may be made under them.
It is proposed, subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, by way of replacing the 1999 Approved Share Option Scheme, to introduce a Company Share Option Plan the CSOP, which would be HM Revenue & Customs approved.
Further details of the CSOP can be found in Appendix 2 to the Notice of Meeting on pages 119 to 122.
In respect of the L-TIP and the 1999 Schemes mentioned above, shares are held by the trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The trustees of these Schemes do not intend to exercise the voting rights attached to the shares held by them.
As at 20 May 2009, the total number of ordinary shares in such trusts was 948,095, which represented 0.41% of the Companys issued share capital.
Shares are also held by the trustees of the All Employee Share Ownership Plan mentioned above.
The trustees only exercise any voting rights attached to those shares in accordance with directions from the employee on whose behalf they are held.
The trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust waive dividends on shares held by them see note 27 on page 92.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting in July 2008, members authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 22.9 million of its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
That authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2009 when a resolution will be put to renew it so as to allow purchases of up to a maximum of 22.95 million shares just under 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
No shares in the Company have been purchased by the Company in the period from 10 July 2008 the date the current authority was granted to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold any treasury shares.
Details of purchases of the Companys shares made in the year to 31 March 2009, or since then to the date of this Report, by the Babcock Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust are to be found in note 27 on page 92.
Babcock International Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report continued Research and development The Group commits resources to research and development to the extent management considers necessary for the evolution and growth of its business.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group donated 129,000 2008: 105,000 to charitable organisations.
No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Supplier payments The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with practices or arrangements agreed with them.
The Company itself had 703,000 in trade creditors at 31 March 2009 representing 34 creditor days and 33,000 in creditors 38 creditor days at 31 March 2008.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Under their respective Articles of Association, the Directors of the Company and of Group subsidiary companies are, and were during the year to 31 March 2009, entitled to be indemnified by respectively the Company and those UK subsidiaries of which they are or were Directors against liabilities and costs incurred in connection with the execution of their duties or the exercise of their powers, to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors also disclose qualifying third party indemnity provisions entered into between the Company and two of the former Directors Mr A Bethel and Mr K Thomas of International Nuclear Solutions PLC a subsidiary of the Company on 6 and 8 November 2007, which were in force at the date of approval of this Report.
The Company also entered into deeds with the two former independent Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC on 22 January 2008, under which the Company agreed to pre-pay any reasonable costs or expenses incurred by those Directors that are not pre-paid by the Companys directors and officers insurance policy in respect of any claim made against them and which is connected with their positions as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC.
If the Director does not successfully defend any such claim, the Director must repay the Company the amount so pre-paid.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in place for the benefit of Directors of the Group companies that act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
Persons with contractual or other arrangements with the Group which are essential to the business of the Group The majority of the Groups revenue is with the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence through various contracts across different businesses, which contracts together are essential to the business of the Group as a whole.
Certain other companies in the Group have contractual or other arrangements with third parties which, though not essential to the Groups business as a whole, are essential to their own respective businesses, namely National Grid Networks division, Network Rail Rail division and, in South Africa, Eskom and Volvo.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control The following agreements are those agreements which the Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
Marine Partnering Agreement dated 29 August 2002 between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited formerly Babcock Naval Services Limited and 3 Babcock International Group PLC Under the Partnering Agreement as subsequently amended, Babcock Marine Clyde Limited provides services to the Ministry of Defence MoD in relation to the operation of HM Naval Base Clyde.
In 2005, the period of the Agreement was extended and it will now expire in 2013.
In the event of a change of majority control of Babcock International Group PLC, the MoD may request information regarding the new controlling entity and in certain circumstances, including if it is not satisfied as regards the financial affairs and standing of the new entity, serve a Change in Circumstance notice, and thereafter can elect to terminate the Agreement.
Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited The Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both subsidiaries of the Company, grant the MoD as the holder of a special share in each of those companies certain rights in circumstances which are deemed to constitute unacceptable ownership, influence or control over the company concerned and which are contrary to the essential security interest of the UK, including circumstances where any non-UK persons directly or indirectly acquire control over more than 30% of the shares of the Company.
Such rights include the right to require the sale of shares in, and the right to remove Directors of, the company concerned.
The Company believes that RRDL presently has the right under its Articles of Association to request that the special share held by MoD in RRDL be redeemed.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Networks Joint Venture Agreement dated 24 November 2006 between 1 Babcock Networks Limited, 2 AMEC Group Limited and 3 Mott MacDonald Limited to form the unincorporated joint venture known as the Energy Alliance On 16 March 2007, Babcock Networks Limited, AMEC Group Limited and Mott MacDonald Limited, acting jointly and severally as the Energy Alliance, entered into the Area Alliance Agreement with National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC for the provision of services to upgrade National Grids transmission network as part of its Capital Investment Programme.
Under the terms of the Energy Alliance joint venture agreement, if any party undergoes a change of control, then the other parties may suspend or exclude that party from further participation in the joint venture and by extension the Area Alliance Agreement.
Defence Joint Venture Agreement dated 16 November 2005 between 1 Babcock Support Services Limited and 2 DynCorp International LLC to form Babcock DynCorp Limited On 16 November 2005, Babcock DynCorp Limited entered into the Regional Prime Contract East with The Secretary of State for Defence acting through the agency of Defence Estates to provide property maintenance and capital works across the MoD Estate in the East of England.
Under the terms of the Babcock DynCorp joint venture agreement, if either party undergoes a change of control, the other party may require that party to sell its shares in the joint venture at a fair value.
Group Facility agreement The Group entered into a 600 million credit facility on 9 May 2007 which provides that, in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may within a certain period call for the prepayment of any outstanding loans and cancel the credit facility.
Share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Contracts with employees or Directors A description of those agreements with Directors that contain provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination of employment following a change of control of the Company is set out on page 60.
One senior employee, not a Director, has a service contract with equivalent provisions to those agreements.
One other senior employee, who is not a Director of the Company, has an agreement providing for payment as described on page 60 in the event of a dismissal including constructive dismissal by the Company within 12 months following a change of control, but does not have the right voluntarily to resign and claim any payment.
Matters more fully dealt with in other sections of the Annual report and accounts Some other matters that have to be covered in a Directors report are dealt with in other sections of this Annual report and accounts and are to be treated as incorporated into this Report, namely: Directors share interests: These are to be found in the table on page 55.
Employees: The Companys approach to employee matters including employee communication, public interest disclosure, ethical standards and its policy on disabled employees and employee involvement are dealt with in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 22 to 25.
In the year ended 31 March 2009, the Group employed an average of 16,389 staff worldwide, approximately 91% of whom were located in the UK.
Principal subsidiary, joint venture and associated undertakings: These are shown on page 107.
Treasury management, financial risk management and the use of financial instruments: This is covered on page 29 and in Note 2 to the Group financial statements.
Changes in asset values: These are dealt with in the financial statements.
Acquisitions and disposals: Information regarding the Groups acquisitions and disposals during the course of the year is set out in notes 32 and 33 on pages 97 and 98 and they are also referred to in the Business review appearing on pages 1 to 33.
Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
The Directors practice is to seek annual authority from shareholders at each years Annual General Meeting to allot shares including authority to allot free of statutory pre-emption rights up to specified amounts and also to buy back the Companys shares, again up to a specified amount.
Babcock International Group PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report continued At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or by being present in person in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in their shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require the provision of information with respect to interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person have failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights in the Company.
At the date of this report, 229,574,959 ordinary shares of 60p each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year ended 31 March 2009, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 218,590 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
0.41% of the issued share capital is currently held within employee benefit trusts for the use of satisfying employee share options or share awards.
There are no securities in issue which carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Appointment and powers of Directors A Director is appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors acting as a Board also have the power to appoint a Director, but any person so appointed must be put up for reappointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment by the Board.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to any directions as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company that are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
They are available for inspection online at www.
co. uk and can also be seen at the Companys registered office.
Directors duty to avoid conflicts of interest The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and management of Directors conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The procedure requires Directors formally to notify the Board via the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest with their duties to the Company or of any material change in existing actual or potential conflicts that may have been authorised by the Board.
Notified actual or potential conflicts will be reviewed by the Board as soon as possible.
The Board will consider whether a conflict or potential conflict does, in fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the interest of the Company that it be authorised and, if so, on what terms.
In making their judgement on this, the other Directors must have regard to their general duties to the Company.
A register is maintained for the Board of all such disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
Authorisations may be revoked, or the terms on which they were given varied, at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any event be reviewed annually by the Board.
In the event of any actual conflict arising in respect of any matter, mitigating action would also be considered for example, non-attendance of the Director concerned at all or part of Board meetings and non-circulation to him of relevant papers.
To launch the formal process, a baseline assessment was carried out of all existing actual or potential conflicts of Board members as of 1 October 2008.
Auditors  LLP are willing to continue in office as independent auditors of the Company, and a resolution to reappoint it will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Disclosure of relevant audit information So far as the Directors who are in office at the time of the approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information namely, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their auditors report of which the auditors are unaware.
Each such Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the Groups and the Companys financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
In accordance with that law the Directors have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union, and the Companys financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Groups and the Companys financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit and loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Groups financial statements comply with IFRS and that with regard to the Companys financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on pages 34 and 35 confirms that to the best of his knowledge: the Group financial statements set out on pages 62 to 100, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and the Business review contained on pages 1 to 33 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the Companys financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in the Group and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The Combined Code The Boards statement as to compliance with the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code is set out on pages 42 to 45.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified for their review.
Approval of report The Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2009, from pages 1 to 47 of this Annual report document, has been approved by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2009 and signed on its behalf by: A N Dungate Company Secretary 20 May 2009
