Babcock International Group PLC 34 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors and Company Secretary Mike Turner CBE 60 The Rt Hon Lord Alexander Hesketh KBE 58 Chairman of the Board since 1 November 2008 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Chairman of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Mike Turner rejoined the Board as a Non-Executive Director Alexander Hesketh joined the Board in 1993 and has been on 1 June 2008 and took over from Gordon Campbell Non-Executive Deputy Chairman since 1996.
He is a former as Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2008.
From March Executive Chairman of British Mediterranean Airways Limited 2002 until August 2008, Mr Turner was Chief Executive of BAE and is a Director of a number of other private companies.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Lazard Ltd and Between 1991 and 1993 he was Government Chief Whip is currently Chairman of the Defence Industries Council, Joint in the House of Lords and before that was an Industry Minister Chairman of the National Defence Industries Council and at the Department of Trade and Industry.
Having served is a member of the Governments Apprenticeship Ambassadors for more than nine years on the Board, Lord Hesketh offers Network.
He previously served as a Non-Executive Director himself for re-appointment annually in accordance with of the Company, between 1996 and December 2005.
re-appointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2008.
Peter Rogers 61 William Tame 54 Finance Director Chief Executive Bill Tame joined the Board as Group Finance Director in Peter Rogers joined the Board in June 2002 as Chief Operating January 2002.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Carclo PLC officer.
He became Chief Executive in August 2003. and a former Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC.
He was He is a Non-Executive Director of Galliford Try plc and a former last re-appointed as a Director at the Companys Annual Director of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV.
He was last General Meeting in 2008. re-appointed as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2008.
John Rennocks 63 Dipesh J Shah OBE 56 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Dipesh Shah has been a Non-Executive Director since June Member of the Remuneration Committee 1999.
Until 31 March 2009, he was Chairman of the Member of the Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
He will be retiring from John Rennocks has been a Non-Executive Director since June the Board at the Companys forthcoming Annual General 2002.
He is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC Meeting in July.
He is a Director of several other companies, and is Chairman of Diploma Plc, Nestor plc, Intelligent Energy including Thames Water and Kemble Water Group of Holdings PLC and Composite Energy Ltd.
He is a Non-Executive companies, Lloyds of London Franchise Board and JKX Oil & Director of JP Morgan Overseas Investment Trust PLC and Gas plc.
Mr Shah was the Chief Executive officer of the United Inmarsat plc.
He was last re-appointed as a Director at the Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, Chairman of Viridian Group Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2008.
PLC and Chairman of Hg Capital Renewable Power Partners LLP.
Governance 34 60 Babcock International Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2009 35 Sir Nigel Essenhigh GCB 64 Justin Crookenden 46 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Nigel Essenhigh has been a Non-Executive Director since Justin Crookenden has been a Non-Executive Director since March 2003.
He is a former First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval December 2005.
He took over the chairmanship of the Staff.
He is Chairman of NGC UK Limited, Northrop Grumman Remuneration Committee on 1 April 2009, having previously Corporations UK holding company.
He was last re-appointed served as a member of the Committee since his appointment as a Director of the Company in 2006 and will be submitting to the Board.
He is a Chartered Accountant and former himself for re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming investment banker who has worked at UBS, Barclays fide Zoete Annual General Meeting in July.
Wedd and Credit Suisse First Boston where he was Managing Director, UK Investment Banking.
He was last re-appointed as a Director of the Company in 2006 and will be submitting himself for re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Sir David Omand 62 Albert Dungate 52 Independent Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Member of the Remuneration Committee Albert Dungate is a Solicitor.
He has been Group Company Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Secretary and General Counsel since February 2002.
Member of the Nominations Committee He was formerly General Counsel and Company Secretary of Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC.
He is Secretary Sir David joined the Board on 1 April 2009.
He was the first to the Board and to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration UK Security and Intelligence Coordinator, responsible for and Nominations Committees.
the professional health of the intelligence community, national counter-terrorism strategy and homeland security, and was the UK Governments chief crisis manager for civil contingencies.
He served for seven years on the Joint Intelligence Committee.
He was previously Permanent Secretary of the Home Ofce, Director of GCHQ the UK Signals Intelligence and Information Assurance Agency and Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Policy in the Ministry of Defence.
He was Principal Private Secretary to the Defence Secretary during the Falklands conict, and was for three years the UK Defence Counsellor in NATO Brussels.
He left Government service in 2005.
Having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, he will offer himself for re-appointment as a Director at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
