qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:58 Page 92 | PERFORMANCE 92 Xstrata Technology Services New orders were received during 2009 for the Jameson Cell, a high Financial and operating data intensity otation technology which provides more efficient and reliable Year ended Year ended otation circuits.
New installations were successfully implemented at the $m 31.12.09 31.12.08 Prominent Hill copper operation and Cosmos nickel mine.
Revenue 114 235 The copper rening technologies of the Tankhouse Group experienced Operating EBITDA 28 38 another strong year, albeit at a reduced level compared to 2008.
New Depreciation and amortisation 6 6 orders were received from Africa, South America, India and China, for Operating profit 22 32 both new installations and replacement cathode and machine spares.
Capital expenditure 3 6 Xstrata Process Support Xstrata Technology Services provides expertise and technology to support the processes involved in mining and metallurgy.
It comprises Xstrata Technology, based in Brisbane, a specialist technology solutions provider Xstrata Process Support provides expert technical services to the minerals and Xstrata Process Support, based in Sudbury, an independent group sector through four separate specialist departments Extractive Metallurgy, which provide highly specialised technological support both to Xstratas Process Mineralogy, Materials Technology and Process Control.
The impact operations and to third-party customers.
of the financial downturn resulted in a 30% decrease in demand for Revenue for Xstrata Technology Services declined by 51% to $114 million.
As in 2008, external customers However, proactive cost saving actions and a focus on working capital accounted for 25% of total revenue in 2009. resulted in a decline in EBITDA of 26% to $28 million compared to 2008.
Process Mineralogy is a mineral processing and mineral science group that utilises quantitative mineralogy, sampling, statistics and ore beneficiation Xstrata Technology test work to improve concentrate grade and maximise metal recoveries for new mine projects and existing operations.
During 2009, Process Mineralogy provided services to Xstrata Nickel, Xstrata Copper and In 2009, the global downturn impacted demand for Xstrata Technology Xstrata Zinc in Canada and has ongoing demand from PGM operations, products and services as capital constraints resulted in delayed or cancelled including Xstrata Alloys Eland.
Demand from external companies slowed projects.
However, work continued during the year on several previously in the second half of 2009, but has begun to recover in early 2010. awarded projects and interest in Xstrata Technologys products improved in the second half of the year.
The Extractive Metallurgy business, which provides expert pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical services to smelters and reneries, continued to Interest continued to grow strongly in the Albion Process, a low-cost, see demand for process modelling expertise on roasters and smelters from simple atmospheric leach process to recover metals from refractory ores.
both internal and external clients.
This engineering service combined with Several plants using the Albion Process are currently under construction, laboratory testing and piloting facilities is used to optimise process design including a refractory gold plant in the Dominican Republic that will be and support environmental compliance projects.
The highly experienced engineers that make up Process Control, delivered There was a year-on-year reduction in new orders for IsaMill Technology, numerous improvements to the concentrators at Xstrata Alloys Eland mine a revolutionary grinding technology that signicantly increases the efficiency in South Africa, Xstrata Nickels Raglan and Strathcona sites in Canada and of mineral grinding and processing.
Nonetheless, work continued with at Xstrata Coppers Kidd operation, also in Canada.
At Xstrata Nickels existing orders, including a major installation programme for Anglo Platinum Nickel Rim South mine and Fraser project, Process Control is contributing in both coarse grinding and regrinding and commissioning of two large mills to improved automation and control, particularly for energy savings in the for Goldcorp in Mexico, with a further two to be commissioned in 2010.
new design of copper circuit featuring IsaMill and Jameson Cell technology was successfully commissioned at Prominent Hill in Australia, enabling the During the year, the Materials Technology business completed planned inspections, aimed at minimising unexpected shutdowns to a number of production of export quality concentrate.
Pilot scale trials around the world continue to demonstrate that the IsaMill grinds more efficiently than smelter acid plants, two of which were for external customers.
Services were provided to Xstratas copper and zinc businesses to implement conventional technology and results in improvements in yield.
risk-based inspection programmes and select construction materials Work continued on two new lead and copper installations using the and to resolve corrosion issues.
ISASMELT smelting technology at the Kazzinc smelting complex in Kazakhstan, where the copper and lead furnaces are scheduled for commissioning in 2010 and 2011 respectively.
During 2009, repeat orders for the ISASMELT technology were received from Yunnan Metallurgical Group YMG in China and Sterlite a Vedanta subsidiary in India.
