qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:30 Page 18 | 18 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Business overview continued Our products Xstratas portfolio comprises Xstrata Alloys Xstrata Coal a balance of LME traded Ferrochrome Thermal coal commodities, such as copper, Vanadium pentoxide Semi-soft coal nickel and zinc, and bulk Ferrovanadium Coking coal negotiated commodities such Platinum group metals as thermal coal, coking coal and ferrochrome.
Our sales are predominantly to the construction, infrastructure and electricity generation sectors, all of which are benefiting from the industrialisation and urbanisation of countries such as China, India and Brazil.
End-use markets End-use markets Over 80% of the worlds ferrochrome is Thermal coal is used to generate electricity in used in the production of stainless steel.
coal-red power stations and our Australian Revenue by end-user segment thermal coal operations supply major power The principal end-use of vanadium is as generation companies in the Asia-Pacic an alloying agent in steel.
Xstratas South African coal operations Platinum Group Metals PGMs comprise largely supply the Atlantic thermal coal market, platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium, where Europe is the major export destination 1 8 2 ruthenium and osmium.
PGMs are used in and new emerging markets such as India.
auto catalysts and fuel cells, providing cleaner Our Colombian operations export high grade 7 energy.
Other key markets include jewellery thermal coal to Europe and the Americas.
and industrial and consumer products.
3 Export semi-soft coal and export coking or metallurgical coal is used in steelmaking.
6 4 Competitive position Competitive position 5 Thermal coal exporters Ferrochrome producers 1.
Aerospace & other transport 4% kt mt 2.
Other 15% Xstrata ENRC Samancor Hernic ASA Xstrata BUMI Anglo Adaro Rio Tinto Metals Resources American Managed Production Coking coal exporters 60 40 20 0 BHP Anglo Teck Xstrata Rio Tinto Billiton American Managed Production See page 52 for more information.
See page 58 for more information.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p16-29 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:31 Page 19 19 Xstrata Copper Xstrata Nickel Xstrata Zinc Rened copper metal Nickel Zinc-in-concentrate  Ferronickel Zinc metal Gold Cobalt Lead-in-concentrate Lead metal End-use markets End-use markets End-use markets Xstrata Coppers rened copper metal cathodes Our Nikkelverk renery in Norway produces Around half of all zinc metal produced very high grade purity nickel and cobalt from are sold to producers of industrial products globally is used to galvanise steel, an material sourced from Xstrata Nickels mining and traders in major copper consuming regions.
 way of protecting operations in Canada and Australia.
The high steel against corrosion.
Zinc is also used in Xstratas excess copper concentrate grade nickel produced at Nikkelverk is typically the manufacture of die-cast alloys, brass and production is sold to custom copper smelters sold into first end-use applications such as the production of zinc oxides and chemicals.
in South America, Asia and Europe, with high nickel alloys, superalloys, low alloy steel, over 90% sold under long-term contracts The main application for lead is in battery foundry and electroforming.
and the remainder sold on the spot market.
Lead acid batteries are used in Ferronickel from Xstratas Falcondo operation Cathodes are predominantly used in the motorcycles and mobile equipment.
currently suspended is sold into the stainless manufacture of copper wire rod for electrical steel market.
Cobalt from Nikkelverk is used in super alloys sold into end-use applications such as aerospace, land-based turbines and electronics.
Competitive position Competitive position Competitive position Copper producers mined Nickel producers rened Zinc producers mined kt kt kt 300 1,500 1,200 200 800 1,000 500 100 400 0 0 0 Codelco F-McM BHP Xstrata Rio Tinto MMC Vale BHP Jinchuan Xstrata Xstrata Vedanta Teck China Glencore Norilsk Billiton Minmetals Copper Billiton & Gold See page 66 for more information.
See page 76 for more information.
See page 84 for more information.
Source: Brook Hunt, CRU and Wood Mackenzie.
