qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 11:21 Page 20 | 20 STRATEGY:BUSINESSREVIEW   Xstratas key competitors are Anglo American plc, Industry and market trends BHP Billiton plc and Rio Tinto plc, all of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and Vale, a Consolidation Brazilian mining company.
We benchmark certain Over the past decade, the mining industry has evolved rapidly through an key financial performance indicators against our ongoing process of consolidation which has resulted in a smaller number key FTSE 100 listed competitors collectively FTSE of very large public or state-owned mining companies dominating the mining industry.
Following a period of consolidation in the 1990s, driven Diversieds, as set out in the Key Performance by structural overcapacity to improve the economics of the industry, Indicators section on pages 30 and 31. consolidation has accelerated in the past decade, primarily driven by the pursuit of scale and diversication.
We also compete with a broader range of private and state-owned or Scale is an important attribute in a capital-intensive industry, where new state-sponsored entities across the globe.
A global industry peer group deposits are increasingly found in riskier and more challenging regions of of publicly quoted diversied and single commodity mining companies the world.
Increased scale enables an entity to acquire and develop several is used to benchmark Xstratas total shareholder return performance, as large projects simultaneously, without risking a substantial portion of the well as to determine performance criteria under the Groups long-term companys capital in any one region or on any one project.
Scale also incentive plan, and is set out below.
brings an improved ability to access capital, talent and new resources.
It enhances a companys ability to capture external opportunities and to Competitors realise synergies from within the portfolio, for example, using common infrastructure for a range of neighbouring operations.
Key FTSE 100 competitors Global peer group Anglo American Alcoa Inc As a further driver of consolidation, the quest for diversication aims BHP Billiton Arch Coal Inc to deliver more stable returns over the cycle and an improved ability to Rio Tinto Vale manage risks across commodities, geographies, currencies and end-use Eramet SA customer segments.
Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc Rise of diversied global mining major Grupo Mexico SA fide CV While several business models exist within the industry, from single Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd commodity companies or companies focused in a particular geographic Korea Zinc Inc region, to those more diversied by geography or commodity exposure, MMC Norilsk Nickel the pursuit of scale and diversication has led to the rise of five major Nordeutsche Afnerie AG global diversied companies which lead the industry, as shown in the Peabody Energy Corp chart below.
Teck Cominco Ltd Vedanta Resources plc 2009peergroup.
Global mining and metals industry 2009 .
Global BHP INTEGRATED GLOBAL Player Billiton MONOLITHS DIVERSIFIEDS $207bn Xstrata $65bn Vale $155bn Rio Tinto $143bn FOCUSED Anglo LOCALS American $69bn Xstrata 2001 LOCAL HEROES Regional Player Commodityfocus Single 1-3commodities 3 commodities 8 commodities Multi  12 09.
 1-3regions 3 regions Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p16-29 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:31 Page 21 21 Increased scale, diversied currency, commodity and geographic risk frequent delays and cost overruns, particularly as the mining industry moves and access to and the ability to develop significant, large-scale organic into more complex territories to access new resources.
Consequently, we growth are vital for success in the mining sector.
These attributes enable expect a supply shortage in a number of commodities in the medium term the large diversieds to deliver consistently higher shareholder returns as demand increases from 2009 levels.
These majors also often benefit from preferential access to new growth, substantial technical expertise, 2Q2008 Declining projections of copper supply growth 4Q2008 and enhanced capacity to engage effectively with stakeholders and 3Q2009 to manage sustainable development risks and opportunities.
New competitors from emerging markets 6,000 In recent years, new major competitors have emerged from markets such 2 Mt decline 5,000 as the former Soviet Union, Kazakhstan, Brazil, India, China, some of which are now amongst the worlds largest mining companies, notably 4,000 Vale.
Many of these companies are state-sponsored entities or benefit 3,000 from investment from home nation governments.
2,000 Chinese investment in overseas mining resources 1,000 In 2009, the global downturn impacted equity valuations and saw a 0 number of companies struggle in the face of severely depressed market 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 conditions.
Chinese state-sponsored entities and private companies were quick to take advantage of the opportunities which arose, investing some Government intervention $16 billion in mining acquisitions, including over $9 billion of acquisitions in Governments and regulators are playing an increasingly active role in Canada and Australia alone, predominantly to secure access to coal, base the mining industry in various forms, including regulation, protectionism, metals and iron ore. Chinas sovereign wealth fund Chinese Investment increased taxation and resource nationalism.
Resource nationalism takes Corporation was particularly active with almost $3billion of mining and many different forms including increasing royalty regimes and the tax metals purchases in 2009.
While Chinese companies have pursued a going burden on mining to controlling access to resources.
The entry of out strategy to secure access to resources for some years, investment has sovereign wealth funds as investors in the mining industry is likely to substantially increased in recent years as Chinese funding has replaced increase politically motivated investment in resources.
Given Xstratas dwindling traditional sources of nancing and the effect of declining equity expectations that new supply of mining resources will lag demand, it is prices.
Investments range from unilateral control to more exible solutions likely that nations where demand for resources outstrips domestic supply to win deals and secure off-take of commodities.
Chinese companies are will continue to seek to secure access to resources as a strategic and likely to remain significant competitors for resources and acquisitions in the political imperative.
future, as well as potential, well-funded partners for the development of major new mining and metallurgical operations.
Investment fund ows Commodities are now established as an attractive investment class in Secular upwards trend in demand their own right with significant growth in exchange-traded commodities Xstratas long-term scenario analysis supports the expectation of futures markets and substantial fund ows which may influence secular strength in demand for commodities and the potential to commodity prices.
This trend will lead to ongoing volatility in prices, return to a strong commodity price environment based on sustained particularly in traded commodities.
demand growth from industrialising and urbanising countries such as China, India, Indonesia and Brazil.
Constrained supply At the same time, supply is expected to struggle to keep pace with rising demand over the medium term.
Prior to the global downturn, existing mining operations were already experiencing a number of problems in attempting to maintain or increase production levels including declining grades, unplanned outages, labour or social unrest, longer haulage distances and ination in input prices.
During the downturn, a significant number of mining projects have been delayed or postponed as companies scaled back capital investment and some higher cost or end-of-life capacity has been permanently withdrawn, further impacting supply.
It is estimated that approximately two million tonnes of future supply has been removed from the copper market and new projects are subject to
