Ivan Glasenberg Title and age: Chairman, aged 65 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 53 Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Committee membership: Chairman of Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Nominations Committee Skills and experience: From 1961 to 1978 Mr. Strothotte held various positions with Skills and experience: Mr. Glasenberg worked in the coal department of Glencore in South responsibility for international trading in metals and minerals in Germany, Belgium and Africa for three years and in Australia for two years.
From 1989 to 1990, he managed the USA.
In 1978, Mr. Strothotte joined Glencore International, taking up the position Glencore Internationals Hong Kong and Beijing ofces.
In 1991 he became Head of of Head of Metals and Minerals in 1984.
Mr. Strothotte was appointed Chief Executive Glencores Coal Department and in 2002 Chief Executive officer of Glencore International officer of Glencore in 1993 and held the combined positions of Chairman and Chief External appointments: Chief Executive officer of Glencore International.
Director of Executive officer from 1994 until 2001, when the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Minara Resources Limited and United Company Rusal Limited were split.
Mr. Strothotte was Chairman of Xstrata AG from 1994 to 2002 and has been Chairman of Xstrata plc since February 2002 5.
Paul Hazen External appointments: Chairman of Glencore International and is currently a director of Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 68 Century Aluminium Corporation, Minara Resources Limited and KKR Financial Holdings LLC.
Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 and will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting 2.
Mick Davis Committee membership: Remuneration Committee Title and age: Chief Executive, aged 52 Skills and experience: Mr. Hazen is a former Chairman and CEO of Wells Fargo and Appointment: Appointed Chief Executive in October 2001 and then Chief Executive of Company from which he retired in April 2001 as Chairman after a 30-year career with the Xstrata plc upon incorporation in February 2002 bank.
He was also a director of Phelps Dodge Corporation until February 2003 and Deputy Committee membership: Chairman of Executive Committee, and a member of the Health, Chairman and Lead Independent Director of Vodafone Group Plc until July 2006 Safety, Environment and Community Committee External appointments: Chairman of Accel-KKR and of KKR Financial Corporation, a director Skills and experience: Previously, Mr. Davis was Chief Financial officer and an Executive of KSL Capital Partners and also serves as Lead Independent Director of Safeway, Inc. director of Billiton Plc, appointed in July 1997, and served as Executive Chairman of Ingwe Coal Corporation Limited from 1995.
He joined Gencor Limited in early 1994 from Eskom, 6.
Peter Hooley the South African state-owned electricity utility, where he was an Executive Director Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 63 External appointments: None Appointment: Appointed in May 2009 Committee membership: Audit Committee 3.
David Rough Skills and experience: Mr Hooley was until 2006, Group Finance director of Smith & Title and age: Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent director, aged 59 Nephew plc, a global medical devices business listed on the FTSE 100.
He was previously Appointment: Appointed in April 2002 Group Financial Controller of BICC plc Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of External appointments: Non-executive director of Cobham plc, the aerospace and defence the Remuneration, Audit and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committees group and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
Director and Chairman of BSN medical, a Skills and experience: Mr.
Rough was a director of Legal & General Group Plc before medical textiles business group retiring from Legal & General in June 2002.
As Group director Investments, Mr.
Rough headed all aspects of fund management within Legal & General Investments External appointments: Director of Land Securities Group plc, Brown, Shipley & Co Ltd and LME Holdings Ltd. Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p98-100 AW.
Ian Strachan Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 67 Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 66 Appointment: Appointed in May 2008 Appointment: Appointed in May 2003 Committee membership: Audit Committee, Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee membership: Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committee Committee and a member of the Audit Committee Skills and experience: Mr. Lamoureux was President and Chief Executive officer of the Skills and Experience: Mr. Strachan was Chairman of Instinet Group from 2003 to 2005 Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board until 1 December 2007.
Previously he spent 25 years and Chief Executive of BTR plc from 1996 to 1999.
Mr. Strachan joined Rio Tinto plc as a financial executive with Metropolitan Life in Canada and the US formerly RTZ plc as CFO in 1987, and was Deputy Chief Executive from 1991 to 1995 External appointments: He is also a director of Northumbrian Water Group plc, Cordiant External appointments: Mr. Strachan is a director of Rolls-Royce Group plc, Caithness Capital, Glass Lewis, Maple Leaf Foods Inc. Atrium Innovations Inc. the Canadian Institute Petroleum Limited and Transocean Inc. for Advanced Research, The Foundation for Investors Rights, The Learning Partnership and the York University Foundation 11.
Santiago Zaldumbide Title and age: Executive director and Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc, aged 67 8.
Trevor Reid Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Title and age: Chief Financial officer, aged 49 Committee membership: Executive Committee Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Skills and experience: Mr. Zaldumbide is currently Executive Chairman of Asturiana fide Zinc.
Committee membership: Executive Committee He is a previous Chief Executive officer and director of Union Explosivos Rio Tinto and of Skills and experience: Mr Reid joined Xstrata in January 2002.
Prior to joining Xstrata, Petroleos del Norte.
In 1990, Petroleos del Norte became part of the Repsol Oil Group he was Global Head of Resource Banking at the Standard Bank Group.
He joined the where Mr. Zaldumbide was responsible for establishing the international structure of the Standard Bank Group in 1997 from Warrior International Limited, a corporate finance enlarged Repsol Oil Group.
In 1994, he was appointed Chief Executive officer of the boutique specialising in the minerals sector Corporacin Industrial fide Banesto and, in December 1997, Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Asturiana fide Zinc External appointments: None External appointments: Mr. Zaldumbide is also a member of the European Advisory 9.
Sir Steve Robson CB Council of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. and a director of ThyssenKrupp SA.
Title and age: Non-executive director, aged 66 Appointment: Appointed in February 2002 Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee Skills and experience: Sir Steve retired as Second Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury in January 2001.
He had joined HM Treasury after leaving university.
His early career included a period as Private Secretary to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and a two-year secondment to Investors in Industry plc 3i.
From 1997 until his retirement, his responsibilities included the legal framework for regulation of the UK financial services industry, public private partnerships, procurement policy including the private finance initiative and the Treasurys enterprises and growth unit External appointments: Sir Steve is a member of the Financial Reporting Council and a member of KPMG Chairmans Advisory Board
