Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p16-29 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:31 Page 25 25 Strategy Our mission We will grow and manage a diversied portfolio of metals and mining businesses with the single aim of delivering industry-leading returns for our shareholders.
We can achieve this only through genuine partnerships with employees, customers, shareholders, local communities and other stakeholders, which are based on integrity, co-operation, transparency and mutual value-creation.
Strategy to deliver growth and value Our strategy Delivered commodity and Mergers and acquisitions geographic diversication 2002: IPO and 2003: MIM 2006: Built scale to compete for access to Duiker Enex Falconbridge resources, financial and human capital Created embedded growth optionality Eight consecutive years of real Operational excellence cost savings Substantial increase in reserves and resources Continuous improvement of safety and SD performance $9 billion growth capex since 2002, Organic growth including successful delivery of 13 major projects Xstratas primary strategic aim is to create superior shareholder value in a sustainable manner.
How we achieve our strategy We aim to do this by: Offering shareholders exposure to an attractive portfolio of assets diversied by commodity, currency, geographic location and end-use segment Growing our business through developing our portfolio of organic growth projects and executing value-adding acquisitions Continuously improving the quality of our assets, for example, through year-on-year operating cost reductions, mine life extensions and productivity improvements Achieving and maintaining industry-leading standards of health, safety and environmental performance and working in partnership with stakeholders for mutual benets, balancing economic, ethical, environmental and social considerations in how we manage our business Fostering a high performance and entrepreneurial culture through a highly devolved management structure, with appropriate incentives for exceptional performance Conducting our business activities ethically and with the maximum transparency commercially possible XS014 p16-29 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:31 Page 26 | 26 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Strategy continued Progress in 2009 Xstratas strategy evolves Within the Groups overarching strategy of value creation through Since its inception, the Groups strategy has been delivered through: growth and asset optimisation, Xstratas businesses implemented a Growth through acquisition number of immediate and longer-term actions to respond to the global Operational transformation and enhancement to net present value downturn in 2008 and the first half of 2009.
In addition to securing Xstratas profitability through one of the worst recessions in history, Organic growth these actions served to accelerate Xstratas strategy of improving the Our strategy will continue to rest on delivery against each of these competitive position of our portfolio, ensuring the Group emerged three pillars, but over time, the emphasis has shifted.
Initially, Xstratas from the downturn in a stronger position.
strategy was, of necessity, dominated by acquisitive growth, to build a Several end of life, higher cost operations were suspended or closed major diversied mining group with the scale and diversity to compete to conserve cash effectively with the leading companies in the industry.
Cost savings initiatives were accelerated across the Group, reducing Following each acquisition, Xstratas operational teams have Xstratas real operating cost base by $501 million in 2009, with savings fundamentally transformed the acquired operations to extract synergies achieved at every commodity business.
In particular, Xstrata Nickel and with existing operations and enhance their competitiveness, improve Xstrata Zinc substantially restructured their businesses and achieved a safety, environmental and social performance to industry-leading reduction in CI cash costs of 33% and 25% respectively, with further standards, extend the reserve and resource base and expected life of cost reductions expected in 2010 the operations and develop expansion or associated growth options.
Production of ferrochrome and coking coal was temporarily suspended Xstratas next phase of growth will be delivered predominantly from its to align with lower demand portfolio of organic growth projects that were accumulated through Sustaining capital expenditure was reduced and expansionary spending a series of transformative and bolt-on acquisitions.
This next phase was scaled back at more marginal, longer-term greeneld projects of transformation will deliver significant growth in volumes, while without damaging optionality, although expenditure continued to bring simultaneously reducing the unit costs of Xstratas commodities, further near-term projects into production and to maintain schedules at the enhancing the quality of Xstratas portfolio and improving the Groups majority of Xstratas growth projects in preparation for economic recovery competitive position.
Despite this emphasis on organic growth, we will continue to assess opportunities to create value through growth by More information about these and other initiatives in 2009 is provided acquisition or through mergers.
During 2009, Xstrata approached Anglo in the Chief Executives report and the operating review.
As economic American to propose a merger of the two companies.
Xstratas proposal conditions improved and demand for commodities grew, a number of was rejected by the Anglo American Board and in October, Xstrata suspended operations were returned to full production and our focus confirmed that it had no intention of making an unsolicited offer for returned to the delivery of major organic growth across the Group see Anglo American.
Xstrata also successfully acquired an option to acquire Delivering organic growth on page 27. a majority stake in an early stage iron ore project in the Republic of Congo during the year, which, if exercised, would provide Xstrata entry into a new, highly attractive commodity.
The continuous improvement of our assets is also an ongoing imperative, including safety performance, environmental management and our engagement with and contribution to communities and other stakeholders in our business.
Each commodity business is mandated to improve the net present value of its underlying business to overcome the strategic gap faced by the mining industry namely the wasting nature of mining companies nite assets and the increasing difficulty of maintaining production from existing operations due to falling grades and higher costs.
qxd:Layout 1 19 3 10 10:51 Page 27 27 Delivering organic growth Strong pipeline of growth selected major projects Xstratas commodity businesses benefit from a broad range of growth projects which have been progressed through the various stages from Projects in Alloys: Eland Platinum exploration to conceptual planning to pre-feasibility and feasibility studies implementation Coal: Goedgevonden, Blakeeld South, over the past several years.
In early 2010, over $8 billion of projects are Mangoola, ATCOM East currently in implementation, with approximately ten major projects due to be presented to the Xstrata plc Board for approval during 2010.
The Copper: Lomas Bayas II, Ernest Henry successful development of our near-term projects will deliver a 50% Mine underground, Antamina expansion increase in overall volumes, predominantly from coal, copper and nickel.
Nickel: Nickel Rim South, Koniambo New operations will also operate with substantially reduced operating costs, further improving the overall cost position of the Groups operations.
Each project will also provide Xstratas shareholders with a robust return on investment at conservative long-run prices, as Projects for Coal: Ravensworth North OC, Ulan indicated by the chart below.
approval within West UG, Bulga Gas next 12 months Copper: Collahuasi, Approved Projects Strong returns from project pipeline Projects with near-term Las Bambas, Antapaccay expected approval Nickel: Falcondo Optimisation Zinc: George Fisher expansion: Black Las Bambas Phase 1 Star OC Deeps, Bracemac Koniambo Phase 1 $2bn Projects in Coal: Tweefontein, Wandoan, Sarum, feasibility and Antapaccay United, Zonnebloem, Cerrejn expansion scoping studies Copper: Tampakan, Frieda River, Mangoola El Pachn Ernest Henry Nickel: Kabanga, Araguaia underground Tweefontein Zinc: Pallas Green, Albion plant Rolleston West OC ATCOM Antamina East expansion Lomas Collahuasi 170ktpd Bayas II Xstratas businesses have already developed $9 billion of major projects $200m over the past six years and each of our commodity businesses benefit 10% 30% 50% 70% from a broad range of executives with substantial experience of IRR at conservative LT pricing developing major mining and industrial projects, including in challenging locations.
Our ability to manage the associated environmental and social impacts of developing major projects is also critical to our success in A further suite of projects is in the feasibility and scoping study stage delivering against our strategy.
We engage openly and proactively with and will follow on from the projects currently in or about to commence communities and other stakeholders to gain and maintain a social licence construction, to provide the next stage of growth from the portfolio.
As set out in Xstratas Sustainable Development policy, we aim to demonstrate a broader social and economic benefit from our presence, including prioritising local employment and procurement and providing support for enterprise development, community skills development and training programmes, particularly in areas with high unemployment and greater economic need.
We avoid resettlement of communities where possible.
Where this is unavoidable, we adhere to the World Bank Operational Directive on Involuntary Resettlement and seek to maintain or improve standards of living and provide ongoing support for resettled communities.
Further information about the development of the Groups major capital projects is provided in the operating reviews pages 52 to 92.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:15 Page 28 | 28 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Strategy continued 2010 strategic priorities Strategic resources In 2010, our strategic priorities are to: Develop our portfolio of significant organic growth projects The following resources have been recognised as being necessary for to deliver new production growth on time and on budget the execution of our strategic objectives: Achieve further improvements to the net present value of our Diversied portfolio operations through sustainable cost savings, mine life extensions Operating and developing a portfolio diversied by currency, geographic and restructurings region and commodity spreads the risks of specic commodity price Improve our health and safety, environmental and social cycles, foreign exchange rate uctuations and operating locations.
performance and in particular to operate a fatality-free business Diversication also engenders healthy competition for capital between Xstratas businesses.
Retain key personnel and offer our people a rewarding and non-discriminatory workplace with development opportunities Pipeline of organic growth projects Xstrata benets from a broad portfolio of attractive growth projects Maintain a robust and appropriate capital structure from within its portfolio which are being progressed to deliver robust Identify and execute opportunities to create value through returns at conservative long-run prices, reduced operating costs and acquisitions, divestments, mergers or strategic partnerships substantial volume increases to benefit from an encouraging outlook including the replenishment of our organic growth pipeline for the Groups commodities.
Devolved business structure We believe that Xstratas devolved management model is a source of competitive advantage.
Our model emphasises accountability and responsibility at the operational level, encourages innovation and minimises bureaucracy.
Robust financial position The Group is committed to maintaining a robust balance sheet and investment grade rating enabling it to access a wide range of funding sources.
Xstrata benets from having no material debt maturities until mid-2011 and an average maturity debt on outstanding debt facilities of greater than five years.
The Groups gearing at year end was 26%.
Reserve and resource base Xstrata benets from a substantial reserve and resource base across each of its major commodities.
The Group reserve and resource statement is published annually and is available from Xstratas website www.
Employees Our ability to attract and retain the best people with the appropriate skills at every level is vital to the successful execution of our strategy.
Xstrata provides industry-leading career development opportunities, a safe and non-discriminatory workplace and fair and competitive remuneration.
Our devolved structure is also an important retention tool for operational management.
The operational restructurings that took place during 2009 inevitably impacted on the Groups employees and contractors in a number of regions.
During the year, approximately 1,481 employees were made redundant as a result of operational closures and downsizing to align production with demand.
We avoid involuntary redundancies of permanent employees wherever possible, but when redundancies are unavoidable, we provide employee assistance programmes including Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p16-29 AW2.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:31 Page 29 29 outplacement, skills mapping and careers advice and work together with Technical expertise other stakeholders to mitigate the impacts on local communities as far as Xstrata Technology Services provides expertise and technology to support possible, in line with our Sustainable Development Policy and Standards.
the processes involved in mining and metallurgy.
It comprises: Community support Xstrata Technology, a specialist technology solutions provider which supplies global mining and metals companies and Xstratas own We set aside a minimum of 1% of Group profit before tax each year to fund initiatives that benefit the communities associated with our operations with mining minerals and metal processing and extraction technologies to improve efficiency and environmental performance.
operations, often through multi-stakeholder partnerships over several years.
Our funding programmes prioritise communities located in remote areas Xstrata Process Support provides highly specialised technological support or in regions with a lower level of social and economic development and both to Xstratas operations and third-party customers, including in areas infrastructure.
Although the overall level of funding set aside each year is such as orebody characterisation, extractive metallurgy, materials testing determined by our profitability, we manage our funding so that community and process control optimisation.
initiatives receive stable and continuing financial support throughout the In addition, Xstratas commodity businesses develop proprietary technologies commodity cycle.
This enabled our support for communities associated with our operations to continue during the recession at a similar level to to reduce operating costs and improve environmental performance, such as Xstrata Alloys ferrochrome smelting Premus technology.
A key priority of our social involvement programmes is to avoid sole dependence on our nite operations.
significant contractual arrangements Community engagement took a high priority during 2009 as a number Glencore International AG is Xstratas major shareholder and at the date of operations were closed or suspended, with potential impacts on of this document holds 34.38% of Xstratas issued share capital.
In addition, Xstrata is developing a range relationship between Xstrata and Glencore is regulated by a Relationship of major new mines, where proactive consultation with communities Agreement which ensures that all commercial arrangements are and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring broad-based support for transacted on an arms-length basis.
Glencore is the sole distributor of our activities and to incorporate feedback into our planning processes.
Xstratas nickel, cobalt and ferronickel production, has sales agreements with Xstrata Copper for some of its copper concentrate and copper Sustainable development performance cathode and is the marketing agent for much of Xstrata Alloys We aim to manage our business so as to balance economic, environment ferrochrome and vanadium.
Glencore has a market advisory role with and social considerations.
Our proven track record in contributing to Xstrata Coal.
Full details of related party contractual arrangements are the sustainable development and acting as responsible stewards of our provided on pages 201 to 204. owners assets and the natural environment enables us to gain access to new resources, maintain a licence to operate, attract and retain the best people, access diverse and low-cost sources of capital, identify and act upon business opportunities, and optimise our management of risks.
We publish a standalone Sustainability Report each year that sets out our policies and performance in sustainable development in detail, available from www.
Stakeholder engagement Xstrata stakeholders include the investment community, employees, contractors, unions, national, regional and local governments, inter-governmental bodies, regulators, communities associated with our operations, business and JV partners, non-governmental and development organisations, suppliers, customers and media.
We identify and engage with our stakeholders at every level of the organisation and implement culturally appropriate methods of engagement.
We aim to engage our stakeholders in two-way dialogue, incorporating their feedback into the way we operate and our plans for the future.
Our engagement and community support programmes recognise that indigenous people and other groups including women, the elderly and children are particularly vulnerable and seek to address the particular needs of these groups.
We are committed to the maximum transparency that is commercially possible.
