qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:37 Page 30 | 30 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Key performance indicators Xstratas Executive Committee and Board monitor a range of financial and non-financial KPIs Earnings per share EBITDA Financial KPIs US$m US Xstratas financial performance during 2009, Earnings per share show attributable profit Xstratas growth in earnings before interest, including the key performance indicators net earnings earned per share.
Xstratas tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA used to measure it, is discussed in detail growth in earnings per share compound before exceptional items is shown compared in the Financial Review on pages 44 to 51. annual growth rate is shown compared to to the average for the FTSE diversied miners.
the average for Anglo American, BHP Billiton This provides an indication of the rate of In response to the global economic downturn, and Rio Tinto FTSE diversieds.
the Group restructured and transformed all of its businesses, improving operating costs and competitive positions.
See page 44 for more information.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p30-35 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:37 Page 31 31 EBITDA margin Real cost savings Total shareholder return % % of operating costs The EBITDA margin shows earnings before Sustainable real cost savings are an important TSR calculates the total return from an interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation driver of value and a measure of our investment in Xstrata, calculated from the EBITDA before exceptional items as a operational excellence.
In 2009, Xstrata growth in share price together with the percentage of revenue.
It is a measure of how achieved real cost savings equivalent to 5% of dividend income from the shares, with dividend efficiently revenue is converted into EBITDA.
The analysis below income assumed to be reinvested.
The graph shows cost savings as a percentage of an shows the total return for a 100 investment inferred cost base revenue minus profit, in Xstrata plc, benchmarked against the to enable a comparison between companies FTSE 100 index of the largest UK companies.
Weighted average for Anglo American, BHP Billiton and 20 Rio Tinto: BHP Billiton adjusted to December financial year 1.5 for comparison purposes.
Based on reported cost variance contribution to annual profit variance: adjusted to include mining ination impact.
2.7 0 3 Compound annual growth rate CAGR 2004-2009.
See page 45 for more information.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 00:37 Page 32 | 32 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Key performance indicators continued Safety Injury frequency rates Health Occupational health Non-financial KPIs In addition to monitoring the Groups We are committed to providing a safe Occupational illnesses are a measure of the workplace and believe that every work-related number of new cases reported by our workforce financial performance as a measure of incident, illness and injury is preventable.
Xstratas operations aim to the Companys performance against its identify, assess and control occupational health objectives, Xstratas Board also regularly In 2009, nine people lost their lives at Xstratas hazards and, where practicable, to eliminate operations eight contractors and one monitors a range of non-financial key work-related diseases.
Occupational illnesses can employee in Australia, Chile, Colombia and performance indicators to assess performance have a long latency, in particular noise-related South Africa 2008: six people.
We value the against sustainable development targets hearing loss and musculoskeletal illnesses, and safety of contractors in exactly the same way and strategic objectives.
cases can relate to historical operating practices.
We monitor the performance In addition, other illnesses can be attributed to of all contractors and insist on full compliance Xstratas Board sets and overviews the Groups more recent exposure, such as respiratory with our safety standards and procedures.
All industry-leading Sustainable Development SD diseases relating to occupational asthma or dust of our sites implement regular and appropriate exposure.
In each case, Xstrata aims to identify, Framework.
The SD Framework has been behaviour-based training with emphasis on assess and control occupational exposure to mapped to international standards and the identication and management of major hazards with an overall aim of eliminating comprises Xstratas Statement of Business hazards.
Our managers work with their occupational illnesses.
Principles, Sustainable Development Policy, supervisors and operators in the eld to identify appropriate topics to be covered 36 new occupational illness cases were reported Sustainable Development Standards and in daily team talks and safety training.
by employees and contractors in 2009, a Assurance Programme.
The majority of the We track total recordable injuries, which include Xstrata operates a highly devolved management occupational illnesses reported during the year lost-time injuries, medical treatment injuries and relate to noise-induced hearing loss, partly model.
Each commodity business is responsible restricted work injuries, as this provides a more related the ageing nature of our workforce and for the implementation of the Groups SD complete measure of safety performance.
The to proactive hearing conservation programmes.
total recordable injury frequency rate and lostFramework throughout its business.
Performance time injury frequency rates are reported per against the SD Framework is reviewed and million hours worked and include contractors.
evaluated on a quarterly basis by the commodity businesses and progress reported to the Boards For the eighth consecutive year, a significant reduction was achieved in the frequency of Health, Safety, Environment and Community total recordable and lost time injuries.
The Committee benchmarks recordable injuries fell by 14% and lost time Xstratas performance against other mining injuries were 21% lower than in 2008 per and extractive sector companies.
The key performance indicators that relate to Total recordable injury frequency rate New occupational illnesses the SD Framework, include safety, occupational per million hours number of new cases illnesses, environmental incidents, water and energy usage, employee turnover, training and support for community initiatives are regularly 15 75 reported to Xstratas Board, Executive 15.0 14.1 Committee and senior management.
12.3 61 10 50 58 10.2 8.8 37 25 36 5 35 0 0 0.0 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 Lost time injury frequency rate New occupational illnesses by type per million hours 1 Noise-induced hearing loss 83% 2 Musculo- 1 4 3 6 skeletal 11% 3 Respiratory 2 conditions 3% 4 Dermal 4 conditions 3% 4.3 3.3 3.0 2 2.7 2.1 0 05 06 07 08 09 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements XS014 p30-35 AW.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:22 Page 33 33 Environmental incidents Greenhouse gases CO equivalents COe million tonnes 2 2 Xstratas operations record environmental Greenhouse gas emissions are measured as 2008 data has been restated from 24.9mt CO2-e incidents according to severity, with category CO2 equivalent tonnes tCO2-e. Xstratas main to 24.4mt CO2-e and reects improvements one representing very minor incidents with sources of GHGs are from electricity used, and made to data collection and aggregation negligible impact and category four or five from methane released during our coal mining processes and the use of more accurate representing major or disastrous incidents with in some regions and from post mining fugitive emissions factors.
medium to longer-term impacts respectively.
methane emissions from our closed coal In addition to absolute tonnes of CO2-e Category three incidents cause moderate, operations.
We seek to reduce greenhouse gas generated directly at its operations and through reversible environmental impact and require emissions through improved energy efficiency electricity usage, Xstrata also measures the moderate remediation.
Our target is to achieve and by using coal-seam methane to generate carbon intensity of its operations.
This measure zero category 3, 4 or 5 incidents.
No category power wherever possible.
normalises carbon emissions in million tonnes four or five incidents have ever occurred at In 2009, Xstratas direct Scope 1 and indirect against production in million tonnes and Xstratas operations.
Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions from provides a basis for comparison year-on-year, In 2009, the number of category 3 incidents its operations reduced by 10% and 7% notwithstanding changes to production levels reduced to three 2008: eight incidents.
One respectively, mainly as a result of reduced across the Group.
In 2009, the carbon intensity incident involved the contamination of water at energy use due to lower production volumes at of the Groups operations decreased by Townsville Port in Australia during the loading of Xstrata Nickel and Xstrata Alloys, our two most approximately 2% compared to the prior year.
Immediately following the spill, energy-intensive businesses.
Xstrata Coals sampling was undertaken by an environmental Australian operations continue to invest in consultant.
The results were reviewed by a using methane from its operations for energy toxicologist who concluded that there was generation where possible.
Generating capacity minimal risk to the marine environment.
To from our methane-red power stations reconrm this initial nding, a second round of increased to 31MW, up from 24MW in 2008. sampling was undertaken and results are due in The electricity generated is either used for March 2010. power by the mine or sold to the local grid.
The two other incidents involved ground contamination as a result of fuel spills, one occurred in South Africa and the other in the Dominican Republic.
In both cases the spills were contained and clean-up processes rapidly initiated.
qxp:Layout 1 18 3 10 23:34 Page 34 | 34 STRATEGY: BUSINESS REVIEW Key performance indicators continued Energy usage Petajoules PJ Water Megalitres ML Employees Turnover and diversity % Energy is measured in petajoules and includes Effective water management and conservation Employee turnover is a measure of our success both electricity usage and energy from the is critical to Xstratas operations, a number of in retaining our people.
Our long-term interests combustion of fuel.
efficiency and energy which are located in arid regions.
The extraction rely on our ability to attract and retain the best consumption reductions drive both cost and processing of minerals and metals uses people, at every level, with appropriate skills.
We aim to large volumes of water and we are committed Turnover and diversity data is calculated as progressively improve energy efficiency across to continually improve the efficiency with which a percentage of total permanent employees our business.
All commodity businesses have we use water.
Xstrata measures total water excluding contractors and is shown for all energy efficiency plans in place and we carry used and water recycled.
Our operations seek available reporting periods.
out regular energy audits at operations.
We to progressively increase the use of process and Voluntary turnover, which excludes compulsory measure efficiency as energy intensity the recycled wastewater, to reduce our impact on redundancies or performance-related amount of energy required to produce one local water supplies.
Recycled water is typically terminations was 6.4%, down from 7.2% tonne of product.
used in place of fresh water for processes such in 2008.
Total employee turnover, including as dust suppression.
A number of our operations are intensive users voluntary resignations, redundancies and of energy.
Over half of the energy we use In 2009, we used 205,800 ML of water, performance-related terminations rose to 14.4% comes from electricity and is predominantly 7% lower than in 2008 as a result of lower 2008: 12.4% reecting 1,481 redundancies used to run our metallurgical operations.
The use of recycled or reused during the year, primarily from the restructuring Diesel is the primary source of energy at our water by our sites was 39% lower, or 313,800 of the nickel business.
mines and is used to run the mining fleet and ML, due to reduced or suspended operational Voluntary turnover % mobile equipment.
activities at a number of sites that, when operating at full capacity, have in place effective During the year, our energy use and water management programmes.
energy intensity was 29% and 12% lower respectively than in 2008, due to curtailments Water intensity measures the volume of water 9 of our smelting capacity in response to weak used, denominated by production volumes, to markets and the prioritisation by Xstrata provide a basis for year-on-year comparison of Alloys of energy-efficient furnaces for its our progress towards our aim of using less water 6 7.2 ferrochrome production.
In 2009, the water intensity 6.5 6.4 of our operations decreased by 1%, reecting the success of our water management programmes.
qxp:Layout 1 19 3 10 00:11 Page 35 35 Employees Training Corporate social involvement $m We aim to provide employees with the Xstrata sets aside a minimum of 1% of annual resources they require to progress in their Group profit before tax to fund initiatives that benefit local communities.
We support careers and excel.
We provide career programmes for community development, development opportunities, access to enterprise and job creation, health, education training and skills development.
and the environment, as well as culture and arts.
Ongoing training and education is conducted For 2008 and 2009, we have also calculated the both in the workplace and at external total value of in-kind contributions such as institutions.
Both training hours and training equipment and management time.
spend are shown as an average per employee In 2009, we set aside $59 million or 1.5% of including contractors and is shown Group profit before tax and contributed a total for all available periods.
of $64.7 million, including $5.4 million of inIn 2009, the numbers of hours training that kind contributions, to support initiatives that each employee participated in increased benefit the communities in which we operate.
The average The charts show the amount spent on initiatives amount spent on training per employee was in each geographic region in which Xstrata lower than the previous year, mainly as a result operates and by category.
of increased in-house training programmes as opposed to using the services of external Corporate social Cash training service providers.
