DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs The Board uses a range of Financial Performance financial and non-financial Financial KPIs are used to measure financial performance which underpins the Groups Strategic Objective of Total Performance, its Strategic Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to monitor Link to 2009 Executive 1.
Make progress on the four global Committee top ten the Groups performance initiatives: 6.
Grow our US business, including through investments objectives 7.
Progress the business in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: over time.
Continue to implement the UK Defence Industrial Strategy: remuneration is linked to certain 9.
Progress export opportunities of these measures, including FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p7 2009 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES Earnings per Share, cash flow, business conduct and safety performance.
1 1 ORDER INTAKE BN SALES BN 1 1 Description Order intake represents the value of funded Sales represents the amounts derived orders received from customers in the year.
from the provision of goods and services, It is a measure of in-year performance and and includes the Groups share of sales supports future years sales performance.
of its equity accounted investments.
Performance 22.0bn 3% 22.4bn 21% 2008: 21.3bn 2008: 18.5bn 25 25 22.4 22.0 20 20 21.2 21.3 18.5 15 15 15.9 15.7 13.8 10 10 12.6 12.1 5 5 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 05 06 07 08 09 Exchange translation impact, 2008 to 2009 Exchange translation impact, 2008 to 2009 1 1 Comment The years intake includes the Typhoon The increase in sales this year has primarily Tranche 3A production order, support orders been driven by increased deliveries of totalling over 3bn for Typhoon, Harrier, Typhoon Tranche 2 standard aircraft, initial Type 45, Spearfish and Sting Ray torpedoes, deliveries of Typhoon aircraft and support and the three-year Saudi Typhoon availability to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and a 6% service contract.
Prior year intake benefited underlying growth in the Electronics, from the peak of demand for armoured Intelligence & Support operating group.
wheeled vehicles in the US and awards for the 15-year UK munitions capability contract.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
3 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 10 to the Group accounts.
4 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments and assets contributed to Trust.
com 3 2 4 UNDERLYING EBITA M UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE PENCE OPERATING BUSINESS CASH FLOW M 2 3 4 Underlying EBITA is used by the Group for Underlying earnings represent profit for Operating business cash flow represents internal performance analysis as a measure the year attributable to equity shareholders net cash flow from operating activities after of operating profitability that is comparable from continuing operations excluding capital expenditure net and financial over time.
It excludes amortisation and amortisation and impairment of intangible investment, dividends from equity accounted impairment of intangible assets, finance assets, non-cash finance movements on investments and assets contributed to Trust.
costs and taxation expense, and nonpensions and financial derivatives, and nonrecurring items.
These are profit loss recurring items see note 10 to the Group on disposal of businesses and, in 2009, an accounts.
Underlying Earnings per Share accounting gain as a result of pension benefit EPS provides a measure of shareholder restructuring in the US, and regulatory return that is comparable over time.
penalties levied by the US Department of Justice and the UKs Serious Fraud Office.
reflecting higher underlying EBITA, more advances in the Programmes & Support than offset by a higher underlying interest operating group, and incremental deficit charge due to the cash cost of acquisitions funding in respect of the UK and US made in 2008 and the lower level of interest pension schemes.
received on the Groups cash holdings, and an increase in the Groups effective tax rate to 28%.
Links to further information Further explanation of these Group financial KPIs for the years ended 31 December 2009 and 2008 are included within the Financial review on pages 30 to 37.
Individual operating group financial KPIs are included within the Operating group reviews on pages 56 to 73, and a reconciliation to the Group KPIs is presented on page 55.
Executive directors remuneration is linked to Earnings per Share and cash flow performance.
Further information is given within the Remuneration report on pages 96 to 98.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 27 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs CONTINUED Programme Execution and Customer Focus Programme Execution and Customer Focus are at the core of the successful delivery of the Groups Total Performance strategy.
Further enhance Committee top ten programme execution through schedule and objectives cost performance FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p7 2009 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES PROGRAMME MARGIN VARIATION SCHEDULE ADHERENCE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Description Programme margin variation measures Schedule adherence measures the Customer satisfaction surveys are outturn projections of and movements in timing of achievement of key milestones.
used to collect customer opinions on margin of key customer-funded projects.
It shows how well we are performing key customer-funded projects.
This It provides an indicator of our ability to against key contract commitments.
provides an opportunity for customers effectively manage major programmes.
to share information on perceived performance levels, and identify areas of strength and weakness.
Performance The Group targets an aggregated The Group targets an aggregated The Group targets an aggregated year-on-year improvement in programme improvement in schedule adherence year-on-year improvement in customer margin across its major contracts.
metrics relating to milestones across satisfaction across its major contracts.
This targeted improvement was achieved.
This targeted improvement was This targeted improvement was achieved.
Comment The contract management metrics The contract management metrics Plans to improve the performance are consistently used by the Board are consistently used by the Board on those contracts reporting a to provide oversight of programme to provide oversight of programme deterioration in customer satisfaction performance.
These metrics can only performance.
These metrics can only are being implemented on a contract-bybe fully interpreted and understood be fully interpreted and understood contract basis.
on a contract-by-contract basis on a contract-by-contract basis and, therefore, aggregated data and, therefore, aggregated data is not presented.
Links to Programme margin variation, schedule adherence and customer satisfaction are regularly reviewed under Lifecycle Management further LCM, which is a mandated core business process under the Operational Framework.
It provides a structured approach to managing information contractual commitments and investments throughout project and product lifecycles.
Further information on LCM is given on pages 15 and 84.
com Mandated policies and Responsible Behaviour processes The Groups policies and processes provide High standards of corporate responsibility are essential to the Groups mission to deliver a stable foundation from which to deliver sustainable growth.
Link to 2009 Executive Link to 2009 Executive 10.
Progress towards a recognised leadership position on the Committee top ten Committee top ten application of Corporate Responsibility agenda: 4.
Drive safety performance to a objectives objectives business policies level comparable with leading performers and processes FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p7 2009 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES p7 2009 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES OPERATIONAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT OAS GLOBAL CODE OF CONDUCT SAFETY The OAS requires that each part of the The global Code of Conduct was launched in The number of incidents resulting in days business completes a formal review of January 2009.
It defines the principles and lost to injuries is monitored and actions its compliance against the Operational standards of responsible business conduct taken to minimise the risk to our employees Framework, including operational and we expect of employees wherever they work and our operations, and drive continual financial controls, and risk management globally.
During the year, the Code was performance improvement.
In previous processes, every six months.
communicated to employees through team reports, days lost to work-related injuries briefings.
Employees received online or was used as the Groups key safety metric.
The level of application of mandated policies classroom-based training on the Code From 2009, this has been replaced by the is assessed against defined scoring criteria.
and were also asked to acknowledge that lost work day case rate, which focuses Where scores are below the minimum they understood and would comply with on the causes of accidents and enables standard, action plans to achieve the its requirements.
a more meaningful comparison with minimum standard are implemented.
800 21% 95% 86% 789 700 1 1 Improvement Briefed and trained Acknowledged 600 The Group targeted an improvement of 20% in The Groups target was to brief and train 1 500 562 scores below the minimum standard during 100% of employees in position before 557 554 XX.
The actual improvement in scores 31 October on the Code during 2009.
Newly acquired 300 businesses are targeted to reach the minimum standard in 75% of mandated 200 policies within 12 months of acquisition.
100 Overall, the Tenix Defence, Detica and 2006 2007 2008 2009 ex-VT Group businesses acquired during 2008 achieved the minimum standard Lost work day case rate in 76% of the Groups mandated policies per 100,000 employees against the 75% target in 2009.
With effect from 1 January 2010, new The briefing and training achievement of The Group targeted a 10% improvement in and updated mandated policies have been 95% includes our Surface Ships business the gap between 2008 performance and introduced as part of the implementation approximately 7,000 employees which the best in class target of 100 per 100,000 of the Woolf Committee recommendations.
joined the Group on 30 October 2009. employees.
In 2009, the improvement was The businesses are required to develop The Executive Committee considers its 33%, exceeding the target.
Incident rate plans to implement these policies, and they target to have been substantively met targets have been set by the operating will be measured by the achievement of and actively continues to ensure that the groups to reflect the progress required to milestones towards full implementation.
remaining employees complete the Code achieve the 2011 target of best in class.
There was no Executive Committee target A new KPI in respect of the global Code of Conduct has been presented this year.
These metrics in 2009 in respect of Performance Centred are used to measure the Executive Committees success in progressing the Group towards Leadership PCL and, therefore, a PCL KPI becoming a recognised leader in responsible business conduct.
has not been presented this year.
Further information on the Groups performance is given within the Corporate Responsibility OAS is a mandated policy under the Operational review on pages 38 to 45.
Executive directors remuneration is also linked to certain of these Framework.
Further information on the measures of performance on business conduct and safety.
Further information is given within Operational Framework is given in the the Remuneration report on pages 96 to 98.
Corporate governance section on page 81.
1 Wholly-owned subsidiaries only, excluding employees on long-term absence.
