DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1.
Sir Peter Mason KBE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2.
Nick Rose Chairman Appointed to the Board on 8 October 2009, Appointed to the Board on 8 February 2010, Dick Olver was appointed as Chairman in 2004.
Paul Anderson retired as Chairman of Spectra Nick Rose has held the appointment of Chief A civil engineer, Dick Olver joined BP in 1973 Energy Corporation in May 2009 where he Financial Officer of Diageo plc since 1999 where, where he held a variety of senior positions remains a non-executive director.
He spent in addition to his finance responsibilities, he culminating in his appointment to the board of more than 20 years in two spells at Duke Energy is also responsible for supply, procurement, BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration and Production Corporation and its predecessor companies, strategy and IT on a global basis.
He was subsequently appointed culminating in his appointment as chairman, in a number of finance roles since joining Diageos deputy group chief executive of BP in 2003, president and chief executive officer.
In the predecessor company, Grand Metropolitan, stepping down from that position when he intervening period he served as managing in 1992, including group treasurer and group assumed the chairmanship of BAE Systems.
director and chief executive officer of BHP and, controller.
Prior to that he spent 11 years with Ford Dick Olver chairs the Boards Nominations subsequently, of the newly merged BHP Billiton.
He is a former non-executive director of Committee and the Non-Executive Directors He is a non-executive director of BP p. l. c. and a Met Hennessy SNC and Scottish Power plc.
He is a Business Ambassador former non-executive director of BHP Billiton plc Appointed: 2010 Age: 52 for UK Trade & Investment, a Fellow of the Royal and Qantas Airways Limited.
Academy of Engineering, and Chair of the 5 12.
Carl Symon Appointed: 2009 Age: 64 Education for Engineering E4E Policy Group.
He Carl Symon retired from IBM in 2001 having 3 is a member of the Business Council for Britain 6.
Phil Carroll held a number of senior positions in the US, and the Trilateral Commission.
He is a former Phil Carroll is a former chairman and chief Europe, Latin America and Asia, including non-executive director of Thomson Reuters plc.
executive of Fluor Corporation, and a former serving as chairman and chief executive of IBM Appointed: 2004 Age: 63 president and chief executive of Shell Oil UK Limited.
He is a non-executive director of Company Inc.
He was appointed by the US 4 BT Group plc and Rexam PLC, and a former non- 2.
Ian King Department of Defense in 2003 to serve as executive director of Rolls-Royce Group plc and Chief Executive the first Senior Adviser to the Iraqi Ministry former chairman of HMV Group plc.
Carl Symon Ian King was appointed as Chief Executive of Oil.
He is a former non-executive director chairs the Boards Remuneration Committee.
on 1 September 2008, having originally been of Scottish Power plc.
Appointed: 2008 Age: 63 appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Appointed: 2005 Age: 72 Officer, UK and Rest of the World, at the 1 13.
Michael Hartnall Ravi Uppal is managing director and chief Managing Director of the Companys Customer Michael Hartnall is a former finance director executive officer of L&T Power Limited, a member Solutions & Support business and, prior to of Rexam plc, prior to which he held senior of the Larsen & Toubro group which operates that, Group Strategy and Planning Director.
positions with a number of manufacturing in the technical, engineering, construction and Immediately prior to the BAe MES merger he companies.
He is a non-executive director of manufacturing sector, and is one of the largest was Chief Executive of Alenia Marconi Systems, Lonmin plc and a former non-executive director companies in Indias private sector.
He was having previously served as Finance Director of Elementis plc.
Michael Hartnall chairs the previously President, Global Markets for the of Marconi Electronic Systems.
He is a Boards Audit Committee.
He is a Fellow of the power and automation technology group ABB non-executive director of Rotork plc.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Limited where he was responsible for ABBs and Wales.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 53 marketing and business development on a Appointed: 2003 Age: 67 4 worldwide basis.
Prior to that he was managing 3.
Andy Inglis director of Volvo India, establishing that Chief Operating officer, President and CEO, Andy Inglis is a director of BP p. l. c. He is a corporations business in India.
BAE Systems, Inc. member of the BP executive management Appointed: 2008 Age: 57 Linda Hudson was appointed to the Board on team, and is also chief executive of BPs 26 October 2009 as Chief Operating Officer, and Exploration & Production business.
He is a is also President and CEO of BAE Systems, Inc.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Each of the nine non-executive directors She was previously President of the Companys and a Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical listed above is considered to be independent US-based Land & Armaments operating group.
Andy Inglis chairs the Boards for the purposes of the Combined Code on She joined the Company at the end of 2006 from Corporate Responsibility Committee.
General Dynamics where she had worked since Appointed: 2007 Age: 50 1992 in a variety of roles culminating in her appointment as Corporate Vice President and 1, 2,3 COMPANY SECRETARY 9.
Sir Peter Mason KBE President, Armament and Technical Products.
Sir Peter Mason is chairman of Thames Water David Parkes She serves on the USO Worldwide Board of and chairman of Acergy S. A.
He was formerly Governors, the Association of the United States chief executive of AMEC plc, executive director Army Council of Trustees, and engineering of BICC plc, chairman and chief executive of advisory boards for engineering programmes Balfour Beatty Limited, and chief executive of at the universities of Maryland and Florida.
Sir Peter has been Appointed: 2009 Age: 59 appointed the Boards Senior Independent Director.
George Rose Appointed: 2003 Age: 63 Group Finance Director 1, 5 George Rose was appointed Group Finance 10.
Prior to joining the Company Roberto Quarta is a partner in the private equity in 1992, he held senior positions in the Rover firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, in connection with Group and Leyland DAF.
He is a non-executive which he serves as chairman of Rexel SA and director of Saab AB and National Grid plc, and a Italtel.
He was previously chairman and chief member of the Industrial Development Advisory executive of BBA Group plc, an executive 1 Member of the Audit Committee.
2 Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute director of BTR plc, and a non-executive 3 Member of the Nominations Committee.
director of PowerGen plc and Equant NV.
4 Member of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 57 Appointed: 2005 Age: 60 5 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
