DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY STRATEGIC REVIEW A consistent and well-defined strategy focused on defence, security and aerospace capabilities Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, security and aerospace company Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through our commitment to Total Performance for all our customers Our Strategy Our Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Financial Programme Responsible Focus Performance Execution Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Strategic Actions Grow our EI&S Implement our global Establish in the UK Grow our home Implement our global Continue to develop business both land systems strategy sustainably profitable markets in the initiatives in Security, our global markets organically and via and deliver on our through-life business Kingdom of Saudi Readiness & acquisitions and efficiency and in air, land and sea Arabia, Australia Sustainment and improve our rationalisation plans and India Unmanned Aircraft efficiencies Systems Integrated Business Plans The Group continues to deliver on a consistent, commitment to Customer Focus, Financial Integrated Business Plans from across the well-defined strategy.
The Group has refreshed Performance, Programme Execution and business are used to deliver the Strategic Actions.
its Vision to be the premier global defence, Responsible Behaviour, Total Performance The Groups culture depends on its employees all enables the Group to be agile in developing security and aerospace company.
The Mission living its Values Trusted, Innovative and Bold.
the business, and adapting its capabilities remains to deliver sustainable growth in They are an essential element of developing a to the changing priorities of customers.
shareholder value through a commitment culture of Total Performance.
The Group asks to Total Performance.
To drive the strategy forward and deliver its full employees to demonstrate the values in their potential, the Group is focused on six Group The Board and Executive Committee focus day-to-day work.
They are an important indicator Strategic Actions previously referred to as close attention on the Groups Strategy.
of the company the Group believes it can be.
Business Portfolio Actions which emphasise Positioning to optimise the business in the The Group believes an enduring set of values the home market strategies, the need to drive current environment, the Group Strategic enables it to be agile and adaptive in its strategy, efficiencies across the business and the Framework continues to develop to recognise and clearly guides the behaviours wanted in all continued development of four global initiatives progress against the strategic objectives, its employees.
With so many businesses across Land, Security, Readiness & Sustainment and to highlight the Groups focus on delivery the world, a strong set of shared values and a and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
global Code of Conduct bind the Group together Strategic Action to grow in the Kingdom of The Group Strategic Objectives have been and underpin the delivery of its strategy.
To this Saudi Arabia has been expanded this year replaced with a single Group Strategic Objective to include Australia and our seventh home end, these values have been incorporated into to deliver Total Performance.
com continuing to develop a culture of Total Performance... 2010 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2010.
A review of performance against these objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2010.
The aim of these objectives is to provide focus for the leadership and engagement of people at all levels in the Group.
Meet 2010 financial targets, and set challenging and realistic longer-term plans 2.
Further enhance programme execution through cost performance 3.
Focus on our commitments to our customers through schedule performance 4.
Progress towards recognised leadership position in responsible behaviour 5.
Grow our Electronics, Intelligence & Support business both organically and via acquisitions, and improve efficiency 6.
Implement our global land systems strategy, and deliver on our efficiency and rationalisation plans 7.
Establish in the UK sustainably profitable through-life business in air, land and sea 8.
Grow our home markets in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Australia and India 9.
Continue to develop our global markets DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY MARKET REVIEW FOR MORE GrowbusineourssEboI& , , ,  ensuring strong marketpositions.
p10 A ST RR EA ATEGI FOCC UA SCTIONS OF  LEADERSHIP IN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY &, , , &lurnobdityal,   GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET A GLOBAL, MULTI-HOME MARKET PRESENCE The global defence market is expected to become increasingly challenging with government budgets under pressure BAE Systems continues to deliver its strategy in selected home Australia In 2009, the Australian government released its Defence p16 INFORMATION following commitments the financial and thecrisis needand to drive increased acquisition levels refor of uncer m. tainty.
This is set against a backdrop of ongoing operational mar industrial kets wpresence.
ith attractive, Embedded sustaina as ble aoppor key patunities rt of theto defence develop industrial an White Forces Pap ADF er, plans Force for 2030, substanti whichal sets platfor outm the and Australian technolog Dy efence Building on our global, multi-home market presence, leveraging our knowledge of our customers, our understanding of base, to deliver withcapability strong custom as a der omes relationships, tic supplierBAE in its Systems established is able acqui in thes defence itions.
The budget Australian of 3% to go2017-18, vernmentwith has committed further growth to real beyond.
growth their challenges requirements of the global and our defence past pmar erfor ket.
mance, the Group has the capabilities and strategic exibility to respond to the home markets.
F industr ollowing y leader the acquisition in the signi of cant Tenixand Defence growing in 2 Australian 008, BAE defence Systemsmar is the ket.
US estimated The UStremains o account the for wor approx lds largest imatelys44% ingleof defen global cedefence market, To help the Australian government meet its plans, BAE Systems FORECAST US$BN DEFENCE BUDGETS FOR BAE SYSTEMS HOME MARKETS BAE SYSTEMS GLOBAL MARKET POSITION US$BN spending rates betw in een 2008.
2001 Ha and ving2experienced 009, growthexce in the ptional US defence annual budget growth Aus partner tralia tois the committed ADF.
Combining to becoming key skills the leading in engineering through-life and s capabili ystemsty In 1200000 constant 2008 prices Top ten global defence companies based on 2008 defence revenues is Congress now expected provides to s for low a.
7 T. 7% he Pres increase idents in2011 the procurement budget request budget to integration, electronic wBAE arfare Systems systems, is militar a leading y air pro suppor vider t o, facommun ir defence, ications, mission 1,000 50 an BAE d a Systems 3.4% overall is well increase positioned in spen to suppor ding.
t its customers in their suppor support t systems, and intelligence, land combat surveillance systems, and mra ec intenance, onnaissance.
garrison ABOUT OUR 800 40 changing programme priorities across the four domains of air, land, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is expected 600 30 39.6 sea and and develop cyber as.
BAE a major Systems supplier continued to the defence to gain mar industrial ket share base, in 2 being 008 to approximately remain a growing 7.7%mar of Gross ket, defence Domestic spending Producta GD ccounting P in 2008. for 400 20 32.7 31.1 26.6 rank of Defense ed number seefour char among t opposite.
the leading suppliers to the US Department The BAEK Systems.
ingdom of Continuing Saudi Arabia its commitment remains a keto y h the ome countr mark y, ethe t for Group 200 10 22.9 21.6 16.2 As focused a leading on asupplier chievingof grow defence th through electronics, strategic BAE contract Systems wins remai in ns has business increased and made the propor further tion investment of Saudi nationals in facilities emplo in-countr yed in y. the 0 0 12.2 10.2 10.0 infor Group mation is capitalising technolog on y, its cyber position, mission s ins electronic upport and warfare services and.
The infrared Through technology transfer, focused investment, training and 08 09 10 11 tec businesse hnologies, s ina snd uch aareas diverse as m ship ix ofre commercial pair, information and civil technolog government y and suppor sustainably t, BAE pro Systems table local intention supplier is to s testablish o the Saudi credible armedand forces.
Sw 1.4% eden of G The DPS through wedishto defence 2012.
H budget owever is, c euts xpected to defence to remain procurement at around MARKETS spending Whilst the, the dif Group cult economic is well positioned climate isin expected Australia toand restrict the Kingdom governments of In up2008, from third BAEin Systems 2007.
Tw his asrepresen the second tedlargest an expansion global defence of business supplier in, Although priorities the andland decreases marketin isoexpected perational totempo, be impacted the USbCombat y changing are align forecast with anticipated and the Group futurescustom Swedish erb requirements.
usiness has restructured to Saudi which d Arabia, efence and spending developing is expected its position to increase in India.
oT ver hese theare medium markets term.
in the Groups home markets and export markets.
Systems through suppor business tingcontinues the legacytproduct o focus on base.
its domestic US customer Within this context, BAE Systems continues to retain a leading position Positioned to capture emerging markets, the Group has leveraged in remain the Sw foedish cuseddomestic on products land which marksuppor et.
Core t the growth Group oppor s expor tunities t ACCESSIBLE DEFENCE MARKETS US$BN BAE SYSTEMS US MARKET POSITION US$BN inter solutio final ns exper in cyber tisesec and urity focus.
The edGroup interna identi l investment es powto erensur management e innovative propositions ghting vehicle.
and global land business, including the CV90 infantry Corporate Responsibility CR is an integral part At BAE Systems, we take the same rigorous Top 11 markets accessible for business by the Group based on 2008 total Top ten US defence companies based on 2008 Department of Defense expenditure as an emerging opportunity.
South Africa Foreign investment in defence continues to be actively defence 750 expenditure 50 UK whilst Mar ak wet aiting conditi theons nature will c ao nd ntinue shapteoobe f defence challengin priorities g and uncer that the tain enco for the uraged countr by y. tS he uppor gover ting nme the ntg orowing f South inter Africa national and defen requirem ce isent a priority for 40 expected continues2010 to position Strategic itself Defence to ensure Revie a sw ustainably will provide.
proThe table Group mine and eprotected ngineeringvfor ehicles, the GSouth roupsAfrica land brem usiness ains.
a hub of innovation 600 667 30 through-life In the air secbusiness tor, the UKabusiness cross thesecured air, landthe and production sea domains.
contract for India defence, Thean Indincreasing ian governopenness ment has a to strong foreign commitment participation toanational nd 450 30.1 Ty five phoon years.
Tranche In the surfac 3A, whic e sh hip extends domain, visibility a 15-yea of production r Terms of Business for the next signi backdcant rop, In requirements dia became the for n Group ew defence s seventh equipment.
home mar Agains ket int2 this 009.
300 20 23.5 23.3 Agreement has been agreed with the UK Ministry of Defence, which Indian 2008 a defence nd 2009. spending Further inc increased reases to bythe an estim budget ated are3expected.
business on fide ned surface shipbuilding is a p suppor ublic commitment ted by strong to forw theard transfor growth mation projections of the Indian for India ars mGDP ed forces.
and 0 67 0 6.0 4.8 Mo & Suppor ving forw t operating ard to cap group ture ne secured w elements over of 3bn theom f suppor arket, the t contracts Programmes in While the government of India remains committed to developing its TheSource: toanalysis dominate global defence expenditure.
com BAE Systems was the fourth largest supplier to the US 2009. is positioned In addition, to gain following scale inthe theacquis security ition sector of Detica as budget in 2008, priorities the Group defence its equipment industrial frombase, foreign it continu supplier es s a to nd source recognises approximately the requirement 70% of estimated defence expenditure to accountin for 2008. approximately As a major 44% supplier1 of the inwor theld US s tmar otalket, Department of Defense DoD, up from sixth in 2007. continue to emphasise intelligence and resilience capabilities.
f Th orepar Group tnerhas shipre-af to meet rmed its its domestic long-term ambitions.
commitment to the market, and of BAE Systems Total Performance approach.
approach to CR as we do for our customer BAE Systems is well positioned to capture returns from this market.
is and wor security king torequire develop moppor ents.
tunities to support Indias emerging defence .
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 17 projects.
This ensures that we embed CR DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY Responsible business conduct and delivery GLOBAL INITIATIVES FOR MORE Implement our globalImplement our globalContinue to develop as part of our employees day-to-day jobs Our Visionis to be the premieland systems r ratglobaandil defoefficnalisatenc delivere, seiecurincy anty and io aonstraterosn plansp aodce  in  &anned ASecuritnt andircrafty, our global markets p10THE GLOBALINITIA KEY STIVES ARE TRATEGICOur MiOuroussior co Grnimmioups to Sdeltment traiveterg to sicuT sObjeotatainal ctiPStblerrve gafeorteisrmagowth Tyonceta li nP f eoshrrf aaorlrlema ouhorncel cuderstom th varougluee rthhsrough Systems... supported by our global  ousinessr bEIot& syrem stentem ous str   il c pnreSte T rtofithre rausablUKteted, geic A InctiGrnoMaonow ouvarskPretiExtve ogrsrecu i Homnaa thmmntid eoenBole  i oun Sr , lvisouriCblouoe ntr glinobueal to m daervkeeltosp The Group has four global initiatives in Land, Security, Readiness & Sustainment and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
 ouns an aesndr vdiaraantionefd  on ann p oudlanrsthinro auigr, hseI linfea tegan burd aslitanendeds  of Pla, d AaIndusns  Ans &s itr acrnadft pro capabilities vide an impor to meet tant the requirements focus for the transfer of best practi of its customers, and ce across grow the business.
its home markets, leveraging appropriate skills and p20 INFORMATION of our CR agenda are essential to achieving LAND SECURITY READINESS & SUSTAINMENT R&S UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS UAS The objective of the land initiative is to create and sustain The emerging security strategy concentrates on helping The R&S initiative focuses on the growing worldwide market The UAS initiative aims to deliver tangible business a global land business, leveraging the Groups capabilities the Groups government and private sector customers for third party platform and systems support.
This is an area opportunities in each of the Groups home markets, enabling and its position in home selected market strateg markets.
y to achieve a pre-eminent strengthen cybersecurity border and, and combat ter transpor rorism tation security and organised, develop crime.
of opportunity in all of the Groups home markets.
specialist teams capability for its customer to leverage s, and the to best pro of vide a BAE route Systems global into the and drive continual progress.
international market for its UAS products and services.
Fdevelopment ollowing the 2008 Executive of the Groups home Committee objective market security businessesto progressR&S encompasses Itcan be defined as the and range expands upon trof activities used aditional supporin the preparation t activities.
of andaglobal security initiative resulting acquisition of to Detica address the global security marin 2008, BAE Systems launchedket.
apreparation for force to a mission-ready military operations, state and the the operations support of themselves this force duringand ON OUR GLOBAL Security encompasses understood as the collection intelligence and of technologies resilience, and ser and vices can whichbeintheir aftermath over a period of time, potentially through life.
detect, monitor, deter and defeat potential threats to civilian welfare.
Through-life supporfor the Group, offsetting t has long the variability in been a differentiating equipment procurementvalue proposition The Group on the US, is UK focusing and Australia, on its home but also marthe kets, emerging with significant home maremphasiskets inbudgets, processes, and capabilities the Group and has contracting an innovative approaches.
range of R&S Product tools, support long-term sustainable growth.
For example, India Group has and the an Kingdom of opportunity Saudi to worArabia.
In each k with its customerof these mars in a position kets, theofser2009 sales vices and for associated BAE Systems.
R&S represented approximately 40% of trto large ust throughout the scale systems lifecycle integration.
of their programmes from consultancyThe R&S initiative was launched in 2009 to explore opportunities for RG35 operational BAE Systems continuously needs.
The new RG35 mine protected develops vehicles multi-purto supporpose t its fighting customervehicle, sSignificant progress has been made during 2009.
The Electronics, extracting furGroups established ther growth R&S serfrom vicesthe global in new R&S margeographies ket byand sector leveraging s. the Mantisin Woomera, The next South generation autonomoAustralia, in October.
us systMantis, em, an advanced Mantis, completed technologits y demonstratormaiden flight developed 2009, combat vehicle.
combines by the Grouphigh levels s Land of surSystems vivability South withAfrica business and the tactical capability of a moderlaunched duringnIntelligence & its cybersecurity Supporcapabilities t operating for the group US made ingovernment, vestments establishingto  the value, the chain, Group and aims maximise to posiand defend tion for third the parGroupty suppors originalt, movemedium-altitude long-endurance UAS, went from concept to flightinjust 19 months.
INITIATIVES aacross leading edge Programmes & Network SupporOperations Centre.
t won a significant security programmeIn the UK, a team fromequipment manufacturer of its R&S services and cross business R&S position.
collaboration, Through tailored BAE integrationSystems for to pull through data analysis a government client.
BAE Systems technologies, Australia and develop is working with a  placed globally to extend its footprint in R&S services to a wider The of Alvis land initiative in 2004, United was launched Defense in 2008 in 2005 following the and Armor Holdings acquisitions position in and solutions.
the Australian market for security-related servicesrange of The R&S products initiative and platforis moving into its ms. implementation phase and The clear opportunities that drivers for the UAS the global mastrartegket for y, launched UAS presented in 2008, for wethere the in 2007. moved from a The confederation of Groups Land & Aracquired maments businesses operating to group an integratedhasIn 2010, the Group plans to accelerate growth in this importantthe key marlines of business ket.
are positioned to accelerate growth in this GroupThe UAS s new initiative ensures a and existing capabilities.
collaborative approach to sharing global business.
Global opportunities are pursued through all of the Land &  and, strengthening managed its large-scale services capabilities, information and technologworking y,  martise, technologkets.
y and best practice across the Groups operating groupimportance on leveraging s lines of business.
the Groups The positions strategy in places Saudi increasedArabia, with government and industry partners to address emerging trends.
BAE Systems is at the forefront of autonomous technologies and achieving strong leadership performance Australia and India.
continues to Mantis and Tadevelop ranis in the complete UK, as intewegrated systems, ll as critical systems such capabilitiesas Herti, The Groupfor agility, flexibility s land sector and responsiveness.
It business is adapting is adjusting its its business productmodel and technologies and US, and autonomous flight contin ground station and rol systems mission in systems in Australia.
the UK offerings theglobal customer to match the procurement priorities and base.
By realigning the business order sizes and tightlyofIn June, BAE Systems acquired Advanced Ceramics Research, Inc. controlling costs, with a balanced risk the profile land business that deliverremains a s shareholder sustainable value.
enterpriseinCothe US, yote, Silverfox which proand Manta, vides three as small well as and related tactical supporUAS platfort capabilities.
ms the The global businesses are investing in product offerings designed Kinitiative in ey customer each programmes home markthat et haare five critical to been identified executing and the the strategUASy FOR MORE INFORMATION ON to proprices.
The vide unparalleled  of the mance Groupcapabilities for s land portfolio, competitive coupled withis being aligned across the respective businesses.
its adaptive strategy, enables flexibility and agility in the marketplace.
Detica NetRevealThe Detica NetReveal solution for detecting fraud and organisedType 45BAE Systems multi-year contract, awarded in 2009 by the UK Ministry ofTto deliver ogether with tangible business the other global opporinitiattunities ives, the UAS and long-terinitiative is m growth targetedfor crime has government and continued law enfto show global orcement agencies.
It is used by banks and insurers, Defence, will deliver in-service support to the Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyers.
p60FOR MORE INFORMALAND & ARMAMENTS OPERATION ON TOUR ING GROUP p67FOR MORE OUR DETICA INFORMASECURITY TIONBUSINESS ON p66FOR MORE OUR UASINFORMATION ON on responsible business conduct, safety, p38 20 www.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY, ALTERNATIVELY: and diversity and inclusion will contribute DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY SEE OUR CR REPORT STRATEGY IN ACTION FOR MORE GrowourEI&SEstablishintheUK , , ... and delivering performance  to improved efficiency and productivity, OUR STRATEGIC &, &lourbaity,  from key growth opportunities.
, ,  OR VISIT: The following case studies describe examples of BAE Systems drive for continuing performance improvements whilst p22 INFORMATION meeting the changing needs of its customers.
DRIVING GROWTH FROM INNOVATION NAVAL SECTOR INDUSTRIAL STRATEGY COMBAT AIRCRAFT GROWTH In EI&S the U operating S, the Group group s Eis lectronics, a focus for Intelligence much of the & Suppor Groupst The shipbuilding establishment has been of an anindustrial important strateg element y for inUK securing naval BAE aircraft Systems activities.
is entering The Group a phase has an of growth unrivalled in its position combat research and development investment and is a leader in long-term stability for that sector.
on both sides of the Atlantic with concurrent participation the an excellent development trackof record manyoa fdvanced innovation technologies.
and leveraging It has new on programmes two new generation underway.
tactical combat aircraft and enhance our reputation with customers, WWW.
COM business opportunities from the application of technology.
ON OUR STRATEGY As solid ansexample, tate micro-bolometer BAE Systems s photon has developed detector as range.
These of high-precision chip-based TYPE PRINCIP 45 AL SURFACE SHIP PROGRAMMES ACTUAL EXPECTED TYPHOON AIRCRAFT DELIVERIES The programme Typhoonis com setbat foraircraft increased detector used in asrare ange manufactured of multi-spectral at the sensing Group products, s in-house including foundry and thermal are HMS HMS DARING DAUNTLESS 60 50 deliveries.
is transitioning The programme from the weapon sights.
DIAM DR OND AGON 40 appro production ximately rate36-a-year under the first, In par September ticipate in, aBAE programme Systemsto was meet one ao requirement f two companies for a s system elected ofto DEFENDER DUNCAN 30 T 50-a-year ranche 1, rate phase for T to ranche the planned 2, sensor armoured s toground provide vehicles.
24-hourThe all-wGroup eatherhas visibility developed to operator a solution s of militar that y QUEEN ELIZABETH CLASS CARRIERS 20 includin Kingdom g of deliveries Saudi Arabia.
to the includes inside the placing vehicle cameras, light cluster utilising s. The the Driver solid sstate Vision detector Enhancer technolog Family y, QUEEN PRINCE ELIZABETH OF WALES 10 0 With the signing of contracts in 2009 to launch Tranche 3, the third  of awSystems areness capability gives the vehicle in darkness occupants or reduced a surveillance visibility cand aused situational by fogSource: 07 08 09 10 11 phase nations ofathe re contracted programme, through deliveries to 2015 to the.
Infour addition, European Typhoon partner aircraft IN ACTION or change smokto e. the Thevehicle solution and is h its ighly armour cost effective structure.
and requires minimal deliveries opportunities on the areSbeing audi programme pursued in a extend number too 2f017.
export In addition to developing high growth potential business from A FUTURE SURFACE COMBATANT CONCEPT employees and other stakeholders.
technologies, identi es growth such from asadvanced multi-spectral power sensing management, BAE Systems technolog also y.
It has forma ing lready partsupplied of integrated morepow than er2,000 management hybrid electric systems drive forsystems, urban ACTUAL EXPECTED F-35 AIRCRAFT DELIVERIES BAE F-35S Lightning ystems is IIa programme, signi cant par manufacturing ticipant on the aftLockheed airframe and Martin-led transit buses.
250 300 empennage its UK supplyproducts chain, and in the electronic UK, supplying warfareair and vehicle ight control systems systems through In 45% October shareholding, BAE Systems in BVTc So urface mplete Fleet.
d theThe acquisition acquisition of VT follow Group edsan 200 supplied from the Groups US operations.
of agreement Businesswith Agreement the UK Ministr settingyout of Defence a 15-year inpar July tnering fide ning arrangement, a Terms 150 The of man very ycombat large scale aircraft requiremen types cur t for rently F-35in aircraft service includes in the US replacement with including and suppor lead t programmes.
roles for the business on fide ned surface shipbuilding 100 end signiofcant theirnumber operational s of aircraft lives throughout in the currthe ent neets ext decade.
reaching the In HMS December Daring, w 2008, as accepted the rstoo ff f contract six Type 45 and anti-air the second warfare ship, destro HMS yers, 50 0 The to progres F-35 programme s towards ais production expected Dauntless, in December 2009.
Production of Type 45 continues 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 rate ayea of rtapprox omeetd imately eman200 dintaircraft heUS through In July, rts ot2 steel 012. was cut for the Royal Navys new class of two 65,000Source: and around the world.
In addition July tonne 2008. aircraft The car aircraft riers following carrier programme award of manufacturing is a signi cant contracts element in of to expected the valuable from p business roduction of the workload covered by the Terms of Business Agreement.
these BAE Systems aircraft o wv ill eralso man par y year ticipate s, Looking conceptb design eyondfor thethe CarUK rierFuture programme, Surface the Combatant Group is engaged programme, on a in their through-life support.
Drivers Vision Enhancer Family of Systems due the R to oyeal nter Navy ser svice Type around 23 frigates.
the end of the next decade to replace 22 www.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 23 BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 11 US UK France Japan Germany Saudi Arabia RepublicofKorea India Brazil Italy Australia Lockheed Lockheed Martin Martin Northrop Grumman BAE Systems Boeing Boeing BAE Systems Northrop Grumman General Dynamics General Dynamics Raytheon Raytheon United Technologies EADS L-3 Communications L-3 Communications KBR Finmeccanica Navistar International United Technologies DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED... through focused investment and TARGETED INVESTMENTS RE-SHAPING THE BAE SYSTEMS BUSINESS Following the merger of British Aerospace plc and GECs Marconi Electronic Systems business in 1999, the Group has grown and developed through improvements in business performance, organic growth, and targeted acquisitions and disposals.
Over the last ten years, the Group has invested over 7.5bn in the acquisition of defence and security businesses consistent with delivery against clear strategic objectives.
These acquisitions have, in part, been financed by strategic business disposals with proceeds exceeding 2.5bn.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS CUMULATIVE BN Electronics, Intelligence & Support: The 8 8 acquisition in 2000 of two former Lockheed Martin businesses, Control Systems and Aerospace Electronics Systems, established 6 6 MTC Technologies the Group as a world leader in digital engine controls, flight controls and electronic 4 4 LM warfare solutions.
United Tenix Control Alvis Defense Defence Systems Land & Armaments: The acquisitions of LM Alvis in 2004, United Defense in 2005 and 2 2 BVT Aerospace DigitalNet Armor Insyte Detica Surface Electronics Holdings Holdings Armor Holdings in 2007 were key to the Group Fleet Systems establishing a global land systems business.
0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Programmes & Support: The acquisition of Detica in 2008 provided access to BAE government security business.
The -2 -2 Systems Atlas Inertial Surveillance Astrium Avionics Canada Elektronik Products & Attack acquisition of VT Groups shipbuilding Inc. business has further strengthened the -4 -4 Thomson Groups global maritime business.
Airbus Marconi Sonar International: The acquisition of Tenix Defence in 2008 positioned the Group as Australias -6 -6 largest defence contractor.
Note: Only major acquisitions and disposals are individually named.
1 UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE PENCE An active programme of targeted acquisitions and disposals has contributed towards KPI 40 the re-shaping of BAE Systems as a high performing business.
Financial years 2004 to 2008 prepared under IFRS underlying earnings exclude amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, profit loss on disposal of businesses and uplift on acquired inventories.
In 2009, underlying earnings, prepared under IFRS, exclude amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
com programme diversity... WELL-BALANCED SPREAD OF PROGRAMMES BY OPERATING GROUP Excluding the share of the order book of Airbus, the Groups 20% share in which was sold during 2006, the Groups order book has grown from 25.0bn in 2000 to 46.9bn at the end of 2009.
As illustrated below, 51% of this is represented by the Groups top 15 programmes and the remaining 49% is spread across the four operating groups.
Many of these programmes are conducted under long-term contracts, and a substantial proportion includes the provision of through-life capability and support.
The diverse range of programmes provides the Group with a broad business base.
Whilst the Groups US businesses are engaged in significant multi-year contracts, these contracts typically provide that performance beyond the first year is contingent upon the receipt of funding.
The US government typically authorises funding on an annual basis and incremental orders are, therefore, recorded as funding is received.
4,5 4,5 ORDER BOOK 2009: TOP 15 PROGRAMMES ORDER BOOK 2009: REMAINING PROGRAMMES Electronics, Intelligence & 9% 8% Support 9% Land & Armaments Top 15 programmes 13% 37% Programmes & Support 18% 6% International Year Duration Programme Description Customer of award years Typhoon Tranche 2 Aircraft Manufacture of 236 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the UK, 2004 10 Germany, Italy and Spain Typhoon Tranche 3A Aircraft Manufacture of 88 Typhoon combat aircraft Air forces of the UK, 2009 7 Germany, Italy and Spain Design and manufacture of two 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers UK Royal Navy 2008 10 Queen Elizabeth Class Aircraft Carriers 2 Design and manufacture of nuclear-powered attack submarines UK Royal Navy 1997 25 Astute Class Submarines Availability service for Tornado aircraft, including maintenance, support and training UK Royal Air Force 2006 10 Tornado ATTAC 3 Type 45 Destroyers Design and manufacture of six Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyers UK Royal Navy 2007 5 Nimrod MRA4 Production Manufacture of nine Nimrod Maritime Reconnaissance Aircraft UK Royal Air Force 2006 6 1 Saudi Typhoon Aircraft Supply of 72 Typhoon combat aircraft Royal Saudi Air Force 2007 11 Design, production and supply of two amphibious Landing Helicopter Dock ships Royal Australian Navy 2007 9 Landing Helicopter Dock Delivery of equipment and training Royal Saudi Air Force 2009 4 Saudi role equipment 1 Availability contract for first squadron of Typhoon aircraft, including maintenance, Royal Saudi Air Force 2009 3 Saudi Typhoon Support support and training Saudi British Defence Co-operation Provision of support to operational capability Royal Saudi Air Force 2007 5 Programme Royal Saudi Naval Force Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles Manufacture of approximately 20,000 tactical trucks and trailers US Army 2008 3 Munitions Acquisition Supply Solution Capability provision and manufacture of general munitions UK Army 2008 15 Re-manufacture and upgrade of 578 Bradley Fighting Vehicles US Army 2008 3 Bradley A3 Re-manufacture 1 The appropriate work share of the Saudi Typhoon Aircraft and Support contracts is reported 4 Including share of equity accounted investments order books and before the elimination of within Programmes & Support.
3 Contract award in 2000, but re-negotiated in 2007 as a six-ship contract.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 13 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY STRATEGIC REVIEW CONTINUED... underpinned by essential resources The Groups key resources and arrangements include the people it employs, its relationships with customers, subcontractors and other suppliers, research and development, and intellectual property.
These resources, together with the application of the mandated policies and processes in the Operational Framework, help the Group to achieve its strategy.
OUR OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK The Operational Framework sets out how the Group will meet its Group Operational Framework Strategic Objective of achieving Total Performance, which together with its values, underpins the Groups ability to deliver the strategy.
It Total Governance Core Business Organisation is mandatory across all wholly-owned and majority-owned businesses, Performance Processes and describes the Groups approach to Total Performance, organisation, governance, core business processes, mandated policies, processes Delegated Mandated Policies, BAE Systems and charters, and delegated authorities.
Authorities Processes and Charters Businesses FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR p81 OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK Education and early careers OUR PEOPLE The Group works in partnership with education providers in its home markets to facilitate a continued supply of talented and qualified The contribution of the Groups employees is fundamental to graduates and apprentices for its early career programmes.
The Groups workforce encompasses the broad supports education schemes with an emphasis on science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
spectrum of skills and experience needed to deliver its products and services.
Employee engagement The Group engages regularly with employees via employee representative Lost work day case rate reduced by 33% against target in 2009 bodies and trade unions, meetings, employee surveys, global, regional and Global Diversity Working Group launched in 2009 departmental newsletters, and a global intranet site.
The effectiveness Over 10,000 courses available online of this communication is assessed regularly.
Employees are encouraged 283 new apprentices employed in the UK in 2009 to become shareholders in the Group by way of employee share schemes.
Approximately 92,000 employees have shares in FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR BAE Systems plc p44 WORKPLACE p29 CODE OF CONDUCT AND SAFETY KPIS Safety The Groups commitment to embed a safety culture contributes to strong employee relations and business performance.
OUR CUSTOMERS Diversity and inclusion The People Policy in the Operational Framework obliges each employee Customer Focus is a key element of the Group Strategic to contribute to the creation of an inclusive work environment where Objective of Total Performance.
individuals are respected and the value of having a diverse workforce is recognised.
The Group is committed to giving full and fair consideration Targeted improvement in schedule adherence achieved to applications for employment from disabled people who meet the requirements for roles, and making available training opportunities and The Groups core businesses are mostly defence-related, selling appropriate accommodations to disabled people employed by the Group.
products and services primarily in its home markets and to other Unlawful discrimination against individuals with disabilities is not national governments, both directly and indirectly through other defence tolerated.
This policy is subject to relevant legislative, regulatory and and aerospace companies.
In many cases, these relationships extend security requirements.
Diversity and inclusion are included in the over decades and span the full product and service lifecycle from initial performance objectives for senior leaders.
concept definition, through the system development phase, into production and then on to support for the system in service.
Capability development Training and development help the Group to deliver world class business Throughout the product and project lifecycles, the Group engages performance and service excellence, keep up with changing technology extensively with its customers and undertakes customer satisfaction and meet customers needs.
A culture of life-long learning is encouraged surveys as part of its drive for continuous performance improvement, through flexible training and development tools for employees at all levels.
aligning with the Group Strategic Objective of Total Performance.
Developing leadership capability The Groups largest customers are the governments of the United The Total Performance Leadership TPL process drives business Kingdom, United States, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia.
In success by linking individuals goals with the wider goals of the the US, BAE Systems is subject to the Special Security Agreement organisation.
TPL includes objective setting, performance assessment, that safeguards US national security interests, as a result of which and the determination of reward, development needs and potential.
BAE Systems is allowed to supply products and services of a highly 14 www.
com sensitive nature to the US government.
In Australia, BAE Systems is The performance of the suppliers we work with could potentially impact subject to an Overarching Deed with the Commonwealth of Australia the Groups reputation and financial performance, and we are putting that protects their national security and other interests, and allows measures in place to encourage high standards of corporate the Group to own certain Australian defence-related industrial assets.
responsibility in our supply chain.
Agreements between the governments of the United Kingdom and FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR Kingdom of Saudi Arabia relating to defence co-operation programmes p49 RISK RELATING TO COMPONENT p43 SUPPLY CHAIN remain essential to the development of the Groups business in AVAILABILITY, SUBCONTRACTOR Saudi Arabia.
PERFORMANCE AND KEY SUPPLIERS Delivery of the Groups corporate responsibility agenda supports its reputation and contributes to successful long-term relationships with customers.
Our commitment to be recognised as a leader in responsible OUR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT R&D business conduct and to achieve leadership safety performance is particularly important.
The Group is engaged in significant R&D programmes Lifecycle Management LCM, which is mandated under the Operational in support of the platforms, systems, services and capabilities Framework, provides a structured approach to managing the Groups that it provides to its customers.
commitments and investments throughout product and project lifecycles, 2009 R&D expenditure was 1,153m 2008 1,044m, promoting the application of best practice management and facilitating continuous improvement.
Programme margin variation and schedule of which 220m 2008 211m was funded by the Group adherence are regularly reviewed to monitor contract profitability and The Groups R&D activities cover a wide range of programmes and milestone achievement.
include performance innovations, improvements to manufacturing techniques and technology to improve through-life support of products.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR PROGRAMME MARGIN VARIATION, p28 SCHEDULE ADHERENCE AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION KPIS The Group funds strategic R&D across the business, particularly in the Electronics, Intelligence & Support operating group, and the four global initiatives of Land, Security, Readiness & Sustainment and Unmanned OUR SUBCONTRACTORS AND OTHER SUPPLIERS Aircraft Systems.
Customers fund directly much of the near-term product development work undertaken by the Group.
Expenditure on subcontracts can represent a significant BAE Systems has launched an investment partnership aimed at portion of project cost, with effective management of this small and medium sized enterprises and academia to identify new technologies, and help bring them to market.
As well as providing expenditure being a key value driver for the Group.
financial support, BAE Systems offers expertise and resources, such Managing major subcontractors is a key strategic capability as the use of test and evaluation facilities.
Current projects focus on Top 1,000 suppliers to be provided with the Groups global the areas of cybersecurity and biometrics.
Code of Conduct and encouraged to work to equivalent standards OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Global database of at-risk suppliers compiled in 2009 The benefits of capability-based contracting, combined with ongoing The Groups intellectual property can make a significant budget pressures, have led many customers to demand a more contribution to its competitive advantage.
integrated partnering approach to meet their requirements.
Best practice in managing major subcontracts is embedded in the Groups The Group filed patent applications covering over 250 processes, guidance and training to help deliver on commitments to new inventions in 2009 customers, aligning with the Groups Strategic Objective of Total BAE Systems now has a total portfolio of patents and patent Performance through programme execution.
applications covering approximately 2,000 inventions Managing relationships with suppliers is an essential part of developing internationally systems integration and through-life management capabilities.
The Intellectual property is created every day, taking many forms, both Group is committed to improving supply chain relationships and working in tangible products and know how.
The Operational Framework together with other companies, large and small, in each of its home mandates a policy to protect the Groups intellectual property through markets to deliver better value and innovation for its customers.
appropriate use and observance of intellectual property law, so that This year, an additional principal risk relating to the Groups dependence returns made from the investment in R&D and technological innovation on component availability, subcontractor performance and key suppliers are protected, and commercial and business innovations are has been disclosed.
In light of global economic conditions, the Group adequately safeguarded.
has reviewed strategically important suppliers globally to assess their financial health.
