DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS CONTINUED INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 1 Like-for-like sales growth of 15% over 2008 3 Good operating cash flow performance PERFORMANCE 2009 2008 2007 1 Sales 4,253m 3,333m 3,359m 2 Underlying EBITA 442m 435m 435m Return on sales 10.4% 13.1% 13.0% 3 Cash inflow 816m 163m 678m Guy Griffiths Group Managing Director, International 1 Order intake 4,825m 4,065m 3,876m 1 Order book 11.6bn 11.0bn 7.9bn KEY POINTS Entry into service of Typhoon aircraft under the Salam programme 1 Order intake secured for three-year support to Typhoon aircraft for the The International operating Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 1 group, with 19,700 employees, Order award for Australian Air Warfare Destroyer build programme comprises the Groups Delivery of four inshore patrol vessels to New Zealand MoD businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, together with a 37.5% LOOKING FORWARD interest in the pan-European The Group seeks to sustain its long-term presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia through delivering on current programmes and industrialisation commitments, and developing new MBDA joint venture, a 20.5% business, including in the land sector.
shareholding in Saab of Sweden In Australia, the Defence White Paper and 2009-10 Budget included a commitment to and a 49% shareholding in increased defence funding for the next decade by approximately 3% per annum and a Air Astana.
Strategic Reform Programme that will place cross-service pressure on support budgets.
BAE Systems is well placed to benefit from both new defence procurement and increased Readiness & Sustainment activities.
1 1 SALES BREAKDOWN ORGANIC SALES GROWTH MBDA, 15% Saab and 1 30% Like-for-like sales growth Air Astana CS&S 55% International 15% Australia 1 Approximately 62% of sales are 34% Readiness & Sustainment 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments and assets contributed to Trust.
com TYPHOON FOR THE ROYAL SAUDI AIR FORCE RSAF The RSAF has commenced flying operations following the delivery of the first eight of 72 Typhoon aircraft.
To support this, the governments of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom reached agreement on detailed arrangements that will provide support for operations by the RSAF Typhoon fleet for an initial three-year period.
69 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS CONTINUED Australia contract wins BAE Systems Australia has secured a contract worth A$309m 172m under the Royal Australian Navys Air Warfare Destroyers AWD programme to construct 12 hull modules for each of the three destroyers.
The business has secured a A$45m 25m contract to install five new integrated satellite communications terminals on board the AWD and Landing Helicopter Dock vessels.
Two contracts with a combined value likely to be in excess of A$420m 234m to carry out deeper maintenance on the Australian Seahawk and Black Hawk helicopters have also been secured.
1 4 During 2009, International achieved sales of 4,253m 2008 3,333m.
The C4I programme remains challenging and discussions continue 1 The increase in sales was predominantly a result of a full 12 months of with the aim of agreeing the definition of a solution that meets the trading from the acquired Tenix Defence business and entry into service customer requirement.
of Typhoon aircraft in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
The first Tactica land vehicles were delivered to the Saudi Arabia National 2 Underlying EBITA was 442m 2008 435m generating a return on Guard in June and deliveries have continued through the second half of sales of 10.4% 2008 13.1%.
The reduction in return on sales is due the year.
A contract for the support of Tactica land vehicles has been to the low margin traded in the early stages of the Salam programme secured.
Further opportunities are being pursued in support of the Royal Saudi Land Forces programme of capability enhancements and and the acquired Tenix Defence business being at lower margins than equipment upgrades.
the average of this operating group.
3 Australia Operating cash inflow was 816m 2008 163m.
The Australian Governments Strategic Reform Programme plans CS&S International A$20bn 10bn in internal savings over the next decade through the BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA.
The business is engaged with the It acts as prime contractor for the UK KSA  Australian government and Australian Defence Force ADF in developing defence agreement.
It also holds certain direct contracts with the Saudi plans and creating opportunities to deliver these efficiencies.
Progress is ongoing to modernise the Saudi armed forces Significant contract awards in 2009 included a A$94m 52m contract in line with the Understanding Document signed in December 2005 to enhance and support the ground segment of the ADFs satellite between the UK and KSA governments.
communications capability, contracts potentially worth up to A$570m Around 4,900 people are employed by the Group in the Kingdom of 318m to provide maintenance and upgrades for the Royal Australian Saudi Arabia, of whom approximately half are Saudi nationals.
The Navys Seahawk and Australian Armys Black Hawk helicopter fleets and business continues to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia and remains Royal Australian Air Forces F A-18 Hornet fighter aircraft, and a A$309m committed to developing a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom.
172m contract to build 36 hull modules for the Royal Australian Navys This is being enhanced by the entry into service of the Typhoon aircraft three new Air Warfare Destroyers.
and the subsequent development of the Typhoon industrial base in In the year, four inshore patrol vessels were delivered to the New Zealand Saudi Arabia.
MoD and two offshore patrol vessels are expected to be delivered in Of the 72 Typhoon aircraft contracted in 2007 under the Salam the first quarter of 2010.
Warranty claims relating to the supply of the programme, eight were delivered in the year to the customer in line with multi-role vessel in 2007 that were subject to mediation have been programme.
The initial support solution contract was also agreed and satisfactorily resolved.
The business is a subcontractor to Boeing on the Wedgetail Airborne The business continues to support the operational capability of both Early Warning and Control programme.
In the year, the business the Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
Significant delivered the majority of the ground subsystem and the air subsystem incremental orders totalling 1.2bn were received in the period for entered the final acceptance testing phase.
The business is working to the Tornado Sustainment Programme TSP weapons contract, Naval deliver the Electronic Warfare systems in support of the aircraft Minehunter Mid-Life Update and a multi-year Naval Training Programme.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
4 Command, Control, Communications, Computers and Intelligence.
com Joint venture agreement with Mahindra Employees aid emergency communications in & Mahindra re ravaged Victoria In November, BAE Systems and Mahindra & Mahindra signed an In 2009, the Australian state of Victoria experienced the worst and agreement to create a land systems, joint venture defence company, deadliest forest fires on record.
Employees at a communications facility based in India.
The skills and knowledge of the two companies are an in rural Victoria found themselves at the centre of response efforts.
They excellent fit, and the values and vision which we share will allow this worked closely with emergency services to supply and maintain lifesaving venture to prosper and innovate.
India was made the Groups seventh radio communications used to coordinate response efforts with fire crews.
home market during the year.
Employees provided support, configuring and maintaining trailer mounted mobile radio stations used to boost signals between distant emergency teams.
The Group donated A$200,000 while our employees raised an additional A$96,000 for the Australian Red Cross to help those in need.
The Australian government has issued a revised request for the supply investigation is currently underway to identify the cause of issues arising of medium and heavy tactical trucks under its Land 121 programme.
The during these campaigns as well as establishing a revised plan to support Australian business is partnered with BAE Systems Land & Armaments the Type 45 programme.
and Scania, and participated in the vehicle trial and evaluation Saab 20.5% shareholding component of the programme.
The results of this component, which Saabs sales were SEK24.6bn 2.1bn.
Operating income was will be known in the first half of 2010, will be used to down-select two SEK1.4bn 115m producing an operating margin of 5.6%, compared preferred tenderers with contract award expected in 2011. with 0.7% in 2008.
The programme to supply two Landing Helicopter Dock ships to the Key orders won during 2009 include a SEK700m 61m order Royal Australian Navy is progressing with numerous milestones within the civil security area, Gripen orders from the Swedish achieved, including the laying of the keel for the first ship, and the Defence Materiel Administration FMV of approximately SEK1bn 87m successful completion of the Whole of Ship Detailed Design Review.
to support operational capacity and future capability studies and a The completion accounting process continues with the former owners SEK1.5bn 130m order from the United Arab Emirates for an airborne of the Tenix Defence business in Australia and an expert has been surveillance system.
appointed to determine certain matters in dispute.
In response to market conditions, Saab announced 670 redundancies MBDA 37.5% interest across its Dynamics and Commercial Aircraft areas of business during MBDAs performance in 2009 delivered an increasing return on sales the year.
on broadly unchanged sales volumes.
Defence Land Systems India Private Limited 26% shareholding Order intake in 2009 was strong and included Scalp Naval production in As a further step in our strategy of developing India as a home France, a second year contract extension for the UK Complex Weapons market, the business entered into a joint venture arrangement with programme, and in export markets, Marte anti-ship missiles to the Mahindra & Mahindra Limited to create a new land systems-focused United Arab Emirates, ground-based vertical launch Mica air defence joint venture defence company based in India.
The joint venture is weapons to a Middle Eastern country, Storm Shadow stand-off missiles, expected to be established in the first half of 2010. and Exocet anti-ship missiles.
Key domestic deliveries included Mica air-to-air missiles, Taurus stand-off missiles and Seawolf naval air defence missiles.
Export deliveries included Aster and Mistral surface-to-air missiles, Storm Shadow stand-off missiles and Exocet anti-ship missiles.
Development programmes continue to progress well, with key milestones being passed on the MEADS air-defence programme, Meteor air-to-air missile programme, all Assessment Phases of UK Complex Weapon Programmes and Scalp Naval stand-off missile programme.
Significant evidence has been gathered out of Sea Viper firing campaigns during the year to support the overall system qualification, but an BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 71
