DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY MARKET REVIEW ensuring strong market positions.
GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET The global defence market is expected to become increasingly challenging with government budgets under pressure following the financial crisis and increased levels of uncertainty.
This is set against a backdrop of ongoing operational commitments and the need to drive acquisition reform.
Building on our global, multi-home market presence, leveraging our knowledge of our customers, our understanding of their requirements and our past performance, the Group has the capabilities and strategic flexibility to respond to the challenges of the global defence market.
FORECAST DEFENCE BUDGETS FOR BAE SYSTEMS HOME MARKETS BAE SYSTEMS GLOBAL MARKET POSITION US$BN US$BN In constant 2008 prices Top ten global defence companies based on 2008 defence revenues 1200000 50 1,000 800 40 39.6 30 600 32.7 31.1 26.6 20 400 22.9 21.6 10 200 16.2 12.2 10.2 10.0 0 0 08 09 10 11 Source: Defense News US Supplemental US Other home markets UK Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Whilst the difficult economic climate is expected to restrict governments In 2008, BAE Systems was the second largest global defence supplier, spending, the Group is well positioned in Australia and the Kingdom of up from third in 2007.
This represented an expansion of business in Saudi Arabia, and developing its position in India.
These are markets in the Groups home markets and export markets.
which defence spending is expected to increase over the medium term.
ACCESSIBLE DEFENCE MARKETS US$BN BAE SYSTEMS US MARKET POSITION US$BN Top 11 markets accessible for business by the Group based on 2008 total Top ten US defence companies based on 2008 Department of Defense expenditure defence expenditure 50 750 40 600 667 30 450 30.1 20 300 23.5 23.3 10 16.3 150 14.4 14.2 55 46 46 8.3 36 25 24 23 23 22 6.7 0 6.0 0 67 4.8 Source: BAE Systems internal analysis Source: GovernmentExecutive.
com The US continues to dominate global defence expenditure.
It is In 2008, BAE Systems was the fourth largest supplier to the 1 estimated to account for approximately 44% of the worlds total US Department of Defense DoD, up from sixth in 2007. defence expenditure in 2008.
As a major supplier in the US market, BAE Systems is well positioned to capture returns from this market.
1 Based on BAE Systems internal analysis.
com US UK France Japan Germany Saudi Arabia Republic of Korea India Brazil Italy Australia Lockheed Lockheed Martin Martin Northrop Grumman BAE Systems Boeing Boeing BAE Systems Northrop Grumman General Dynamics General Dynamics Raytheon Raytheon United Technologies EADS L-3 Communications L-3 Communications KBR Finmeccanica United Technologies Navistar International Grow our EI&S Establish in the UK Grow our home business both sustainably profitable markets in the organically and via through-life business Kingdom of Saudi acquisitions and in air, land and sea Arabia, Australia improve our and India Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, security and aerospace company OUR HOME MARKETS efficiencies Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through p10 ARE A FOCUS OF OUR our commitment to Total Performance for all our customers Our Strategy STRATEGIC ACTIONS Our Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Financial Programme Responsible Focus Performance Execution Behaviour Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Strategic Actions Grow our EI&S Implement our global Establish in the UK Grow our home Implement our global Continue to develop business both land systems strategy sustainably profitable markets in the initiatives in Security, our global markets organically and via and deliver on our through-life business Kingdom of Saudi Readiness & acquisitions and efficiency and in air, land and sea Arabia, Australia Sustainment and improve our rationalisation plans and India Unmanned Aircraft efficiencies Systems Integrated Business Plans A GLOBAL, MULTI-HOME MARKET PRESENCE BAE Systems continues to deliver its strategy in selected home Australia In 2009, the Australian government released its Defence markets with attractive, sustainable opportunities to develop an White Paper, Force 2030, which sets out the Australian Defence industrial presence.
Embedded as a key part of the defence industrial Forces ADF plans for substantial platform and technology acquisitions.
The Australian government has committed to real growth base, with strong customer relationships, BAE Systems is able in the defence budget of 3% to 2017-18, with further growth beyond.
to deliver capability as a domestic supplier in its established home markets.
Following the acquisition of Tenix Defence in 2008, BAE Systems is the industry leader in the significant and growing Australian defence market.
US The US remains the worlds largest single defence market, estimated to account for approximately 44% of global defence To help the Australian government meet its plans, BAE Systems spending in 2008.
Having experienced exceptional annual growth Australia is committed to becoming the leading through-life capability rates between 2001 and 2009, growth in the US defence budget partner to the ADF.
Combining key skills in engineering and systems is now expected to slow.
The Presidents 2011 budget request to integration, BAE Systems is a leading provider of communications, Congress provides for a 7.7% increase in the procurement budget electronic warfare systems, military air support, air defence, mission and a 3.4% overall increase in spending.
support systems, land combat systems, maintenance, garrison support and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance.
BAE Systems is well positioned to support its customers in their changing programme priorities across the four domains of air, land, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is expected sea and cyber.
BAE Systems continued to gain market share in 2008 to remain a growing market, defence spending accounting for and develop as a major supplier to the defence industrial base, being approximately 7.7% of Gross Domestic Product GDP in 2008. ranked number four among the leading suppliers to the US Department The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia remains a key home market for of Defense see chart opposite.
Continuing its commitment to the country, the Group As a leading supplier of defence electronics, BAE Systems remains has increased the proportion of Saudi nationals employed in the focused on achieving growth through strategic contract wins in business and made further investment in facilities in-country.
information technology, cyber, mission support and services.
The Through technology transfer, focused investment, training and Group is capitalising on its positions in electronic warfare and infrared support, BAE Systems intention is to establish credible and technologies, and a diverse mix of commercial and civil government sustainably profitable local suppliers to the Saudi armed forces.
businesses in such areas as ship repair, information technology and Sweden The Swedish defence budget is expected to remain at around commercial aviation.
However, cuts to defence procurement Although the land market is expected to be impacted by changing are forecast and the Groups Swedish business has restructured to priorities and decreases in operational tempo, the US Combat align with anticipated future customer requirements.
Systems business continues to focus on its domestic US customer Within this context, BAE Systems continues to retain a leading position through supporting the legacy product base.
in the Swedish domestic land market.
Core growth opportunities Positioned to capture emerging markets, the Group has leveraged remain focused on products which support the Groups export internal expertise and focused internal investment to ensure innovative propositions and global land business, including the CV90 infantry solutions in cybersecurity.
The Group identifies power management fighting vehicle.
South Africa Foreign investment in defence continues to be actively UK Market conditions will continue to be challenging and uncertain encouraged by the government of South Africa and defence is a priority whilst awaiting the nature and shape of defence priorities that the for the country.
Supporting the growing international requirement for expected 2010 Strategic Defence Review will provide.
The Group mine protected vehicles, South Africa remains a hub of innovation and engineering for the Groups land business.
continues to position itself to ensure a sustainably profitable through-life business across the air, land and sea domains.
India The Indian government has a strong commitment to national defence, an increasing openness to foreign participation and In the air sector, the UK business secured the production contract for significant requirements for new defence equipment.
Against this Typhoon Tranche 3A, which extends visibility of production for the next backdrop, India became the Groups seventh home market in 2009. five years.
In the surface ship domain, a 15-year Terms of Business Indian defence spending increased by an estimated 34% between Agreement has been agreed with the UK Ministry of Defence, which 2008 and 2009.
Further increases to the budget are expected.
This sets out lead roles for the business on defined surface shipbuilding is supported by strong forward growth projections for Indias GDP and and support programmes.
a public commitment to the transformation of the Indian armed forces.
Moving forward to capture new elements of the market, the Programmes While the government of India remains committed to developing its & Support operating group secured over 3bn of support contracts in defence industrial base, it continues to source approximately 70% of 2009.
In addition, following the acquisition of Detica in 2008, the Group its equipment from foreign suppliers and recognises the requirement is positioned to gain scale in the security sector as budget priorities for partnership to meet its domestic ambitions.
continue to emphasise intelligence and resilience capabilities.
The Group has re-affirmed its long-term commitment to the market, and is working to develop opportunities to support Indias emerging defence and security requirements.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 17 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED Developing a multi-market business Our global business is based around seven home markets in Australia, India, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sweden, the UK and the US.
These markets are identified as having a significant and sustained commitment to defence and security, and an openness to foreign investment to develop a domestic industrial capability.
They are also markets where we have established, or seek to establish, a good position in their defence industrial base along with strong customer relationships and high standards of responsible business conduct, thereby providing a foundation for long-term investment and growth.
Advisory boards have been established to advise on the development of business in Saudi Arabia, India and Oman.
The advisory board for each territory typically consists of experts in the particular region who are external to the Group.
UNITED STATES Market overview Defence expenditure of approximately $667bn 413bn, 1 the worlds single largest defence market Defence spending of approximately 4.6% of Gross Domestic 1 Product GDP BAE Systems position 1 The fourth largest supplier to the US Department of Defense The Group is a premier supplier to the US Army and a leading supplier of defence electronics to the US government 2 126 business locations across 38 states 43,700 3 Employees SOUTH AFRICA Market overview 1 Defence expenditure of approximately $3.4bn 2.1bn 1 Defence spending of approximately 1.2% of GDP BAE Systems position 1 The number three defence supplier The Group is a leader in land systems 2 4 business locations across the country 600 3 Employees 1 Based on 2008 data.
2 Excluding equity accounted investments and customer locations.
3 Excluding the Groups share of equity accounted investments.
com UNITED KINGDOM SWEDEN Market overview Market overview 1 1 Defence expenditure of approximately $67bn 41bn Defence expenditure of approximately $6.7bn 4.1bn 1 1 Defence spending of approximately 2.5% of GDP Defence spending of approximately 1.4% of GDP BAE Systems position BAE Systems position 1 The largest supplier to the UK Ministry of Defence The number two in-country defence supplier in the 1 Swedish market The Group has market leadership positions across the air, land and sea sectors The Group is a key domestic defence manufacturer and 2 the leading supplier of land systems 57 business locations across the country 2 5 business locations across the country 40,400 3 1,500 Employees 3 Employees SAUDI ARABIA Market overview 1 Defence expenditure of approximately $36bn 22bn 1 Defence spending of approximately 7.7% of GDP BAE Systems position The leading in-country defence supplier The Group provides support to the operational capability of the Royal Saudi Air, Land and Naval Forces 2 1 business location, plus presence at 7 customer locations 4,900 3 Employees INDIA Market overview 1 Defence budget of approximately $24bn 15bn The Indian defence budget grew by 34% in 2009 BAE Systems position A new home market in 2009 The Group is investing in an in-country industrial presence, initially focusing on its land capabilities AUSTRALIA Market overview 1 Defence expenditure of approximately $22bn 14bn 1 Defence spending of approximately 2% of GDP BAE Systems position 1 Australias largest defence contractor The Group is a leading provider of mission systems, air defence, land combat systems, maintenance, garrison support and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance 2 24 business locations across the country 6,100 3 Employees BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 19
