DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In October, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of VT Groups 45% seek improvements to safety across all aspects of our business.
The shareholding in BVT, creating a wholly-owned subsidiary, BAE Systems Product Safety Review we recently announced, headed by Nigel Whitehead, Surface Ships Limited.
The acquisition followed an agreement with the Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support, further demonstrates UK Ministry of Defence in July defining a Terms of Business Agreement the importance we place on safety.
We will work with our customer, the UK setting out a 15-year partnering arrangement, including lead roles for the Ministry of Defence, to ensure that any learning benefits our current and future workload.
business on defined surface shipbuilding and support programmes.
A significant element of the workload underpinned by this agreement is the We are also deeply saddened to report the death of one of our employees manufacture of the Royal Navys new class of two 65,000 tonne aircraft during deployment of communications equipment in Australia.
Following award of manufacturing contracts, steel cutting reviewing the cause of this accident and co-operating fully with the commenced in July, marking the start of build of the first of class.
Royal Navy also saw Astute, the first of a new class of nuclear powered BAE Systems aims to achieve leadership standards of responsible attack submarines, commence sea trials in November.
business conduct through its programme to address the 23 BAE Systems identifies unmanned systems as an increasing priority recommendations of the Woolf Report.
As a consequence, we reviewed amongst its customers, driven by rapidly evolving requirements often all Group policies and governance processes during 2009, and have to meet urgent operational needs.
BAE Systems is developing a range incorporated appropriate changes in the Operational Framework of unmanned system solutions to meet those requirements.
A further key focus during 2009 was the rollingout of a Group-wide Code of Conduct for employees as part of the drive In the UK, the Group is developing three unmanned air platforms.
A small to embed high standards of business conduct.
high endurance air system, Herti, has been operationally deployed.
A large twin-engined air platform, Mantis, commenced flight trials in October just In addition, we have also launched Responsible Trading Principles 19 months after conception.
A third development platform, Taranis, see page 5.
All trading is to be undertaken in accordance with a stealthy unmanned combat air system, is in-build.
these principles and consistency of this approach is key in defining BAE Systems reputation.
Together with our global Code of Conduct, People and Total Performance these underpin the way we do business.
BAE Systems is dependent on the skills and capabilities of its people.
The Group sets high standards for the training and development of employees, and is a major employer of apprentices and graduates.
The BAE Systems is not complacent and recognises the difficulties in Group maintains robust processes for career development including the wider economies in which it operates, but it is a broadly-based succession planning for its senior executives.
and robust business with a large order book.
It has been agile in developing the business, adapting its capabilities in anticipation Programme execution is an important and easily recognisable of changing requirements.
embodiment of performance but, in addition, we target an integrated approach to performance, embracing all aspects of our corporate The result is a continuously evolving business with a good track record existence.
The Group wants to be recognised as a company committed of identifying and exploiting growth opportunities whilst re-focusing the to developing a culture of Total Performance.
Successfully embedding business towards the future priority needs of our customers.
this approach will be a key differentiator for the Group.
Total Performance focuses not just on what we do but also how we do it.
It is about every aspect of the way we do business: Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
Delivery of the Groups Corporate Responsibility agenda is an essential part of embedding a Total Performance culture across the Group.
Our focus on safety remains a top priority.
The tragic loss of Nimrod XV230 over Afghanistan in 2006 and the subsequent Haddon-Cave report Ian King Chief Executive published in October have only strengthened our resolve to continuously OUR EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP The Executive Committee is the forum chaired by the Chief Executive in which the operating group and functional leaders come together to communicate, review and agree on issues and actions of Group-wide significance.
Ian King Chief Executive LINE LEADERSHIP FUNCTIONAL LEADERSHIP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OFFICE Linda Hudson Peter Fielder George Rose Chief Operating Officer, President Managing Director, Performance Excellence Group Finance Director and CEO of BAE Systems, Inc. Grenville Hodge Philip Bramwell Audit Director Mike Heffron Group General Counsel President, Electronics, Intelligence & Support Raj Rajagopal Andrew Davies Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility Bob Murphy Group Strategy Director President, Land & Armaments Fiona Davies Alan Garwood Chief of Staff Nigel Whitehead Group Business Development Director Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support Alastair Imrie Guy Griffiths Group HR Director Group Managing Director, International Charlotte Lambkin BAE Systems plc board member Group Communications Director Executive Committee member 6 www.
com M S I I T S I Y G L A A G T R N I E N O A I P R O N O R T T I I N N O G M A N D PERFORMANCE AGAINST 2009 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES The Board reviews and updates the Groups strategy annually see page 10.
The Chief Executive and Executive Committee agree the Groups Strategic Objective, Strategic Actions and Integrated Business Plans.
In addition, there are ten annual objectives agreed by the Chief Executive and Executive Committee which focus on specific deliverables in support of both delivery of short-term results and the overall strategy.
For more Objective 2009 performance information 1.
Meet 2009 financial targets The Group delivered another year of strong performance, exceeding financial p30 to 34 1 and set challenging and realistic targets for underlying EBITA and net cash.
Further enhance programme Overall, programme execution has been good, as reflected in the strong financial p28 execution through schedule performance of the Group.
Targets for programme margin variation and schedule and cost performance adherence were achieved in the year.
Progress towards a recognised The milestones for the Woolf implementation programme in respect of Group p29 and leadership position on the processes and policies, and the global Code of Conduct, were substantively p40 Corporate Responsibility agenda achieved.
Revised processes and policies were incorporated in the Operational 2 Framework effective 1 January 2010, and 95% of employees were briefed and trained on the Code.
The results of an employee survey showed a positive trend in awareness of expected ethical standards.
Drive safety performance to a level The Group exceeded its target to reduce the lost work day case rate by 10% over the p29 and comparable with leading performers gap between 2008 performance and the best in class target, and its target for 60% p40 over a three-year period of major manufacturing sites reaching Level 4 on the Safety Maturity Matrix.
Make progress on the four global All milestones towards the implementation of the strategic global initiatives were p20 to 21 initiatives Land, Security, Readiness met.
Further discussion of these initiatives in the context of the Groups strategy & Sustainment and Unmanned is set out later in this report.
Grow our US business, including The Group has reduced its expectations for growth in the US market reflecting p56 to 63 execution of planned investments increased defence budgetary pressures.
In Electronics, Intelligence & Support, the Group remains focused on achieving strategic contract wins in information technology, cyber, mission support and services.
In Land & Armaments, the market is expected to provide export opportunities.
Progress delivery of the Saudi The targets to deliver eight Typhoon aircraft and agree the support solution p70 Industrialisation Plan and further were achieved.
Plans to develop the in-country industrial base to support the develop business in the Kingdom modernisation of the Saudi armed forces are progressing.
Continue to implement the UK Defence In the air sector, all milestones agreed with the UK Ministry of Defence MoD were p62 to 63 Industrial Strategy DIS including achieved.
In the land sector, the Group continues to develop its strategies for UK p66 to 67 execution of our transformation and vehicle support with the MoD.
In the naval sector, the signing of the 15-year Terms investment plans of Business Agreement was achieved and the acquisition of VT Groups shipbuilding business completed.
Progress export opportunities The Group continues to successfully address export opportunities.
9% of sales p26 from each of our home markets were to destinations outside the Groups home markets in 2009 2008 12%.
Ensure continued quality application The Operational Assurance Statement OAS process requires businesses to p29 of our mandated business policies complete a formal review of compliance with the Operational Framework, including and processes operational and financial controls, and risk management processes, every six months.
The Group exceeded its target for an overall improvement in OAS scores.
DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE RISK MANAGEMENT FOR MORE INFORMATION FOR MORE FOR MORE Effective management of riskBUSINESS RISK IDENTIFICATION and opportunity is essential Core to the delivery of the Groups AnnuallyBusiness Process objectives, sustainable shareholder value achievement ofBusiness PlanIntegrated and protection of its reputation.
 Assurance Mandated Policy p96 to 98 ON HOW THE EXECUTIVE p26 INFORMATION ON THEStatement p46 INFORMATION QuarterlyQuarCore Business terly Business ProcessReview BOARD REVIEWPRINCIPAL RISKS: MonthlyCore Business Processes REPORTING MONITORINGLifecycle Management Contract reviews Defence spending page48 BOARD COMMITTEE REVIEWLarge contracts48 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REVIEWAudit Committee reviewCorCommittee revieporate Responsibility wGContract timingovernment  management thedelivery of the Groupof srisks objectives, and oppor achievement tunities is of essential  risk The responsibility managementfor risk identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, COMMITTEE TOP TEN QUANTITATIVE KPISFixed-price  value to risk management and is protection aimed at the of eaits reputation.
rly identification The Groupof key risks, s approach andrepormanagerting and s is given monitoring in the Grouprests with s Risk line Management management.
PoGuidance licy in thefor ON THE GROUPS REPORTING MONITORINGComponent asubcontractor , then occurremo, and vdealing ing or reducing the likeffectively with elithehood and effect m if they crystallise.
of risks The before Group theisyOperational Management LCM FrameworFrk ameworand, in k. respect of projects, in the Lifecycle ASSURANCE SELF-ASSESSMENTand key suppliers49committed and financial to resources, the protection through of its assets, an effective which risk include management human, process, propertyIdentified risks are documented in controlled risk registers showing: Global marExport controls ketand other  where appropriate by insurance.
thefordeterrisks that mining mitigation have been identified: strategy: and characteristics what reviews of the and monitoringrisk: the basis OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORKCore Business 50The Group non-financial and is committed reputational to the riskeffective s, including management those arising in of material areresponsibility for necessary.
Each assessing risk is allocated and managing an owner it.
who has authority and Total Performance Organisation Governance Processes C Consor ompetitiontia and joint ventures 5050connection with Reporting and monitoringsafety and ethical issues.
In addition, Statement OAS the Group process, has a which six-monthly Operational is mandated by the AssuranceGroups Operational Delegated AuthoritiesProcesses and Mandated PoCharlicies, ter s BAE Systems BusinessesPension funding50The Board managed across has overall the Group.
responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectivelyFwith rameworthe Operational k. The OAS is in Framewortwo pak: rand ts: a a self-assessment of report showing the kcomplianceey risks for OBJECTIVES RELATE TO USED TO MEASURE Acquisitions 51Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are escalatedthe relevant business.
Together with independent reviews undertaken APPROACH BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENTLExchange ratesaws and  the The underlying management principles of team, the Group ultimately s risk to management the Board if appropriate.
policy arebthe Groupy Internal s Audit, process and the worfor reviewing k of the exterthe effectiveness final auditorof s, the system the OAS forofms IDENTIFICATION  contingencies prorisks are continuously monitored, visioned and associated this inforaction mation plans reporreviewteded, interThe output final controls.
from the risk assessment processes are collated and Full risk least six-monthly bbusiness and review function undery eachtaken atRisks analysed andgross exposureprobability to for  established management control procedures.
reviewcumulative risk, ed by the Executive Committee or possible reputational impacts, to identify those could issues be significant.
where the Both financial risks recorded and in  Board to the Audit has Committee, delegated: the responsibility for reviewing in detail The Executive  for the management s risk worofkshops allocate the most significant  registerRisk owner ss allocated to assessthe effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control policies risks to the Group.
The non-financial risk register is also reviewed and manage riskand risk: andprocedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of  of ly by the Executive mitigation Committee plans.
In to addition, monitor the it is ongoing statusalso reviewed on EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  and o the Corporate reviewing Responsibility the GroupCommittee, s perfor mthe ance responsibility in managing foraAs with regular basis any system by the of Board internal contand Corrol, porate the policies Responsibility and processes thatCommittee.
MITIGARisk owner TIONs identifiedEVRisk exposure ALUATIONreviewed andsocial, environmental, ethical and reputational risk.
are mandated rather than eliminate in the Operational the risk of faFilure to rameworachieve k are designed business to objectives, manage TO RISK Action plans implemented manage, or respond to, risksto risksRisk e prioritised valuation documented inBoth the Audit findings of their and reviews Corporate to the Responsibility Board.
committees report theand can material misstatement only provide reasonable, or loss.
and not absolute, assurance against Robust mitigation subject to rigorous revieregular and wstrategycontrolled risk registers Principal risks In light of the Groupof the sglobal dependence economic on encomponent vironment, a an additional vailability, subcontractorrisk in respect Risks and mitigationKey risks REPORTING AND reportedMONITRisk worORINGkshopsRisks reviewed byperforpage 49. mance and key suppliers has been disclosed this year see plans monitored, rigorously reviewe anddthrough QuarBusiness Reviews, terly conducted bExecutive Committee y thetheAuditBoard, and Cor and porateits INCENTIVES SEE THE regularSignificant risksimmediately notified ly  AssuranceStatement self-ly through theto analyse  forand allocate  on a regular basis AGAINST THEthrough the businessreporting systemsassessment andannually through themanaging  risks p78 to p92FOR MORE ITS COMMITTEES INFORMASEE TION THE OCORPORAN THE ACTIVITIES TE GOVERNANCE OF THE BOARDSECTION AND p83 to p84FOR MORE MANDATED POLICIES INFORMATION SEE OTHE CORPN OUR BUSINESS PROCESSES ORATE GOVERNANCE SECTIONAND MANAGEMENT Integrated Business Plan 46 www.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 47 REMUNERATION REPORT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE TOP TEN OBJECTIVES 1 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
2 Wholly-owned subsidiaries only, excluding employees on long-term absence.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 7 D N A M G O N N N I I T T O R E O I O V T R P I A A N E L C G R I U F A I T T I N O E N D I DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY 8 www.
Strategy The Groups Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through Total Perform ance Strategic review 10 Market review 16 Global initiatives 20 Strategy in action 22 BAE SYSTEMS SURFACE SHIPS Bringing BVT Surface Fleet into full ownership further strengthened the Groups global maritime business.
The acquisition was accompanied by a 15-year Terms of Business Agreement with the UK Ministry of Defence.
The agreement will sustain key industry capabilities in the UK, and provide a strong platform on which to build future domestic and international business.
