DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY STRATEGY IN ACTION... and delivering performance from key growth opportunities.
The following case studies describe examples of BAE Systems drive for continuing performance improvements whilst meeting the changing needs of its customers.
DRIVING GROWTH FROM INNOVATION NAVAL SECTOR INDUSTRIAL STRATEGY In the US, the Groups Electronics, Intelligence & Support The establishment of an industrial strategy for UK naval EI&S operating group is a focus for much of the Groups shipbuilding has been an important element in securing research and development investment and is a leader in long-term stability for that sector.
the development of many advanced technologies.
It has an excellent track record of innovation and leveraging new business opportunities from the application of technology.
PRINCIPAL SURFACE SHIP PROGRAMMES As an example, BAE Systems has developed a range of high-precision solid state micro-bolometers photon detectors.
These chip-based TYPE 45 detectors are manufactured at the Groups in-house foundry and are HMS DARING used in a range of multi-spectral sensing products, including thermal HMS DAUNTLESS weapon sights.
DIAMOND DRAGON In September, BAE Systems was one of two companies selected to DEFENDER participate in a programme to meet a requirement for a system of DUNCAN sensors to provide 24-hour all-weather visibility to operators of military QUEEN ELIZABETH CLASS CARRIERS armoured ground vehicles.
The Group has developed a solution that includes placing cameras, utilising the solid state detector technology, QUEEN ELIZABETH PRINCE OF WALES inside the vehicle light clusters.
The Drivers Vision Enhancer Family of Systems gives the vehicle occupants a surveillance and situational awareness capability in darkness or reduced visibility caused by fog or smoke.
The solution is highly cost effective and requires minimal change to the vehicle and its armour structure.
A FUTURE SURFACE COMBATANT CONCEPT In addition to developing high growth potential business from technologies, such as multi-spectral sensing, BAE Systems also identifies growth from advanced power management technology.
It has already supplied more than 2,000 hybrid electric drive systems, forming part of integrated power management systems for urban transit buses.
In October, BAE Systems completed the acquisition of VT Groups 45% shareholding in BVT Surface Fleet.
The acquisition followed an agreement with the UK Ministry of Defence in July defining a Terms of Business Agreement setting out a 15-year partnering arrangement, including lead roles for the business on defined surface shipbuilding and support programmes.
In December 2008, the first of six Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyers, HMS Daring, was accepted off contract and the second ship, HMS Dauntless, in December 2009.
Production of Type 45 continues through to 2012.
In July, first steel was cut for the Royal Navys new class of two 65,000 tonne aircraft carriers following award of manufacturing contracts in July 2008.
The aircraft carrier programme is a significant element of the workload covered by the Terms of Business Agreement.
Looking beyond the Carrier programme, the Group is engaged on a concept design for the UK Future Surface Combatant programme, due to enter service around the end of the next decade to replace the Royal Navys Type 23 frigates.
Drivers Vision Enhancer Family of Systems 22 www.
com Grow our EI&S Establish in the UK business both sustainably profitable organically and via throughlife business acquisitions and in air, land and sea Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, security and aerospace impro company five our MEETING THE CHANGING efficiencies Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through p10 NEEDS OF OUR our commitment to Total Performance for all our customers Our Strategy CUSTOMERS LINKS TO Our Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Financial Programme Responsible Focus Performance Execution Behaviour OUR STRATEGIC ACTIONS Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Strategic Actions Grow our EI&S Implement our global Establish in the UK Grow our home Implement our global Continue to develop business both land systems strategy sustainably profitable markets in the initiatives in Security, our global markets organically and via and deliver on our through-life business Kingdom of Saudi Readiness & acquisitions and efficiency and in air, land and sea Arabia, Australia Sustainment and improve our rationalisation plans and India Unmanned Aircraft efficiencies Systems Integrated Business Plans COMBAT AIRCRAFT GROWTH BAE Systems is entering a phase of growth in its combat aircraft activities.
The Group has an unrivalled position on both sides of the Atlantic with concurrent participation on two new generation tactical combat aircraft programmes underway.
The Typhoon combat aircraft ACTUAL EXPECTED TYPHOON AIRCRAFT DELIVERIES programme is set for increased 60 deliveries.
The programme is transitioning from the 50 approximately 36-a-year 40 production rate under the first, Tranche 1, phase to the planned 30 50-a-year rate for Tranche 2, 20 including deliveries to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
10 With the signing of contracts in 2009 to launch Tranche 3, the third 0 phase of the programme, deliveries to the four European partner 07 08 09 10 11 nations are contracted through to 2015.
In addition, Typhoon aircraft Source: BAE Systems internal analysis deliveries on the Saudi programme extend to 2017.
Typhoon export opportunities are being pursued in a number of other markets.
BAE Systems is a significant participant on the Lockheed Martin-led ACTUAL EXPECTED F-35 AIRCRAFT DELIVERIES F-35 Lightning II programme, manufacturing aft airframe and 300 empennage products in the UK, supplying air vehicle systems through its UK supply chain, and electronic warfare and flight control systems 250 supplied from the Groups US operations.
200 The very large scale requirement for F-35 aircraft includes replacement 150 of many combat aircraft types currently in service in the US with significant numbers of aircraft in the current fleets reaching the 100 end of their operational lives throughout the next decade.
50 The F-35 programme is expected to progress towards a production 0 rate of approximately 200 aircraft 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 a year to meet demand in the US Source: US Department of Defense and around the world.
In addition to the valuable business expected from production of these aircraft over many years, BAE Systems will also participate in their through-life support.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 23 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE 3.
Group performance The Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Focus, Financial Performance, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour Key Performance Indicators KPIs 26 Financial review 30 Corporate Responsibility review 38 Risk management 46 Principal risks 48 24 www.
com ASTUTE CLASS SUBMARINE Astute is the most advanced attack submarine ever supplied to the Royal Navy, incorporating the latest stealth technology combined with an advanced sonar system.
She is designed to fulfil a range of key strategic and tactical roles including anti-ship and anti-submarine operations, surveillance and intelligence gathering, and support for land forces.
