DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS CONTINUED PROGRAMMES & SUPPORT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 1 Sales increased over 2008 on commencement of aircraft deliveries and support on the Saudi Typhoon programme, increased deliveries of the Typhoon Tranche 2 standard, and a full year of Detica sales 2 Underlying EBITA increased by 36% 1 1 8.8bn of orders booked in the year, increasing order book to 24.3bn PERFORMANCE 2009 2008 2007 1 Sales 6,298m 4,638m 5,327m 2 Underlying EBITA 670m 491m 456m Nigel Whitehead Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support Return on sales 10.6% 10.6% 8.6% 3 Cash inflow 285m 651m 807m 1 Order intake 8,789m 4,195m 9,091m 1 Order book 24.3bn 19.8bn 20.9bn The Programmes & Support KEY POINTS operating group, with Typhoon Tranche 3A secured 1 33,200 employees, Over 3bn of support orders received primarily comprises the Astute submarine commenced sea trials Groups UK-based air, naval Second Type 45 accepted off contract and security activities.
Acquisition of VT Group plcs 45% interest in the BVT joint venture, now 100% owned and re-named BAE Systems Surface Ships Detica security business performing strongly in the first full year since acquisition Continued rationalisation activity LOOKING FORWARD Programmes & Support is driven by its existing strong order book, and the level of future UK Ministry of Defence MoD funding to meet current UK armed forces operational requirements and delivery of the Defence Industrial Strategy.
A Strategic Defence Review will begin after the general election in 2010.
In Military Air Solutions, growth is linked to increased combat aircraft production activity and in-service support performance.
Surface Ships is underpinned by the six-ship Type 45 destroyer programme, the manufacturing phase of the Queen Elizabeth Class carrier programme, export contracts and the 15-year Terms of Business Agreement with the UK MoD.
The Submarine Solutions business remains focused on the Astute programme, and on delivering the concept design work for the Successor Programme.
Follow-on orders for Astute are key to retaining the skill base necessary to design and build a next-generation nuclear deterrent submarine.
Deticas reputation in the UK security market, repositioning to become a solution integrator and the publication of the UK government cybersecurity strategy, mean the business is positioned to benefit from continued government focus on intelligence, security and resilience.
1 1 SALES BREAKDOWN ORGANIC SALES GROWTH Naval 33% 20% 1 Like-for-like sales growth 12% Air Systems 68% and Security 1 Approximately 31% of sales 34% are Readiness & Sustainment 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments and assets contributed to Trust.
com TYPE 45 DESTROYER PROGRAMME HMS Dauntless was launched from BAE Systems Govan shipyard in January 2007 and was handed over to the Royal Navy in December 2009.
She is the second of the fleet of six Type 45 anti-air warfare destroyers that will provide the backbone of the UKs naval air defences for the next 30 years and beyond.
65 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS CONTINUED Queen Elizabeth Class carriers Typhoon Tranche 3A contract award BAE Systems is a member of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, responsible The production contract for 88 Tranche 3A Typhoon aircraft demonstrates for delivering the biggest and most powerful surface warships ever a strong, long-term commitment by the UK Ministry of Defence to the constructed in the UK.
The two carriers will sustain thousands of skilled Typhoon programme.
It will sustain many highly skilled jobs across UK jobs across industry and will be a key component of the UKs maritime industry and provide the country with outstanding defence capabilities defence capability.
Sales growth was The UK Ministry of Defence MoD also awarded the Harrier Platform 36% largely due to the commencement of aircraft deliveries and support Availability Contract worth in excess of 550m to support the UKs on the Saudi Typhoon programme, increased deliveries of the Typhoon Joint Force Harrier Fleet until their planned out of service date.
Tranche 2 standard, and a full year of Detica sales.
During the year, six Gripen aircraft were accepted by the South African 2 Underlying EBITA was 670m 2008 491m with return on sales customer.
Hawk aircraft deliveries for South Africa are now complete maintained at 10.6%.
and the programme is in the support phase.
3 Operating cash inflow was 285m 2008 651m reflecting the Aircraft acceptances of the Hawk Mk128 Advanced Jet Trainer for the utilisation of programme advance funding.
RAF are progressing, with 17 of 28 now accepted.
Activity under the Hawk Integrated Operational Support programme continues, with aircraft 1 Order intake increased by 4.6bn to 8,789m 2008 4,195m, availability consistently in excess of the 95% target.
1 giving a closing order book of 24.3bn.
Support continues to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited of India to conclude Military Air Solutions negotiations on the requirement for a further 57 Hawks in India.
In 2009, the business secured contracts totalling almost 3bn for availability support on the Typhoon and Harrier aircraft fleets, and the The first production Nimrod MRA4 made a successful maiden flight from Typhoon Tranche 3A production contract for 88 aircraft.
Formal customer acceptance is anticipated in early 2010.
Delivery of Typhoon aircraft to the four partner nations and Austria continues with 208 aircraft delivered, 50 being Tranche 2 standard aircraft.
On F-35 Lightning II, major airframe units and systems for all three aircraft The first eight of 72 Typhoons were delivered to the Royal Saudi Air Force.
variants under development and initial production contracts have been Upgrade work on the Tranche 1 aircraft continues to provide the delivered.
The first F-35 airframes are in the UK for structural testing and UK Royal Air Force RAF with increased operational capability.
the UK government has committed to order three of the Short Take Off and Vertical Landing STOVL aircraft for operational test and evaluation.
In March, the UK government awarded the business a 430m five-year Typhoon Availability Service TAS contract to work with the RAF to ensure BAE Systems continues to leverage its expertise and capabilities in aircraft are available to meet operational commitments.
In September, the Unmanned Aircraft Systems and position itself in this growth market with Typhoon Support Centre and Maintenance Facility were officially opened Mantis making its first flight in October.
Good progress is being made on at RAF Coningsby, marking the official start of our TAS undertaking.
Herti, with ongoing flight trials of the production standard variant.
Final assembly of the Taranis advanced technology demonstrator is underway.
A five-year contract worth in excess of 400m to provide a support service for the Radar and Defensive Aids Sub-System DASS for the In September, consultations started on a programme of approximately Typhoon fleets of the air forces of the UK, Germany, Italy and Spain was 1,100 potential job losses across UK sites at Woodford, Samlesbury, awarded in October.
On the Tornado and Harrier programmes, operational requirements Following the publication of the independent report by Charles continued to be met through both the delivery of contractual milestones Haddon-Cave QC into the loss of Nimrod XV230 over Afghanistan in 2006, and Urgent Operational Requirements to support aircraft in theatre.
BAE Systems has appointed Dr Chris Elliott FREng, a leading systems 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
com Submarine Solutions The first of class Astute submarine successfully completed its nuclear power plant testing programme and has commenced sea trials.
This is the first time since the Vanguard Class boats were successfully accepted in 1999 that a new to service submarine has undertaken sea trials in the UK.
Ambush, the second Astute boat, is scheduled for launch at the end of 2010.
Involvement in the concept phase for the successor to the Vanguard Class submarine has been extended into 2010 in support of requirements definition.
Detica Detica has continued to focus on helping its clients to collect, manage and exploit information to reveal actionable information intelligence.
Detica is now developing a range of new, innovative technologies for analytical decision support, real-time situational awareness and control, and secure computing and communications.
Detica is investing in New buildings keep the environment in mind combining these technologies with its in-depth security and industry knowledge to create differentiated solutions to tackle management of Additions to our site at Samlesbury are being designed and built to personnel security, defending against chemical, biological, radiological, meet demanding environmental criteria, and to reduce environmental and nuclear threats and protecting deployed forces.
The low-energy buildings make maximum use of daylight whilst minimising solar gain and incorporate innovative In the UK market, Detica is repositioning as a solution integrator, design through the use of night-time cooling and natural ventilation combining its core consultancy, specialist products and applications to reduce the need for air-conditioning.
Designed also with energy development capabilities to deliver larger-scale systems integration efficient heating systems, including a biomass boiler, and leading edge and managed services programmes across both government and lighting controls, these features in combination ensure that we meet a commercial markets.
A system using Detica NetReveal has helped requirement that 10% of the energy needs of the new developments Her Majestys Revenue and Customs to identify and target tax evasion are provided from renewable sources.
The site also has a small-scale using advanced data analytics.
Detica was part of a consortium selected wind turbine that supplies the new site entrance building.
by the Highways Agency to provide consultancy services to the National Road Telecommunications System, as part of a ten-year, 20m programme.
Detica is helping to build international opportunities in the three global security mission areas of cybersecurity, border and transportation engineer and barrister, to support and advise Nigel Whitehead FREng, security, and counter terrorism and organised crime.
The Detica Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support, who will undertake a NetReveal solution also continues to show strong global sales growth, review of the Groups approach to product safety across all its sectors in with significant wins during the year.
Also during the year, the Reveal suite the UK.
TM of software-based solutions has been extended to include TxtReveal, BAE Systems Surface Ships for analysing large volumes of unstructured data.
In October, the Group acquired VT Group plcs 45% shareholding in Integrated System Technologies Insyte BVT Surface Fleet Limited.
The wholly-owned subsidiary has been In July, the Seawolf Mid-Life Update system was declared In Service on re-named BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited.
the Type 23 frigates whilst the update programme continues on the first In July 2009, the business signed a 15-year Terms of Business of class Type 22 frigate.
Agreement with the UK MoD, providing a minimum of 15 years exclusivity In November, the FALCON mobile battlefield communication system for for the design, build and integration on specified MoD shipbuilding the UK Army and RAF passed its Equipment Acceptance Trial.
programmes, including the Future Surface Combatant.
It also gives a contractual guarantee to deliver a minimum of 350m of financial During the year, the 500th Sting Ray lightweight torpedo was delivered benefits to the MoD over the duration of the contract.
A 99m export contract for the Norwegian Navy was secured.
In July, the UK MoD placed a ten-year, 370m Torpedo On the Type 45 programme, the second ship, Dauntless, was accepted Capability Contract.
off contract in Portsmouth in December.
The third ship, Diamond, has completed her first sea trials and the fifth ship, Defender, was launched in Both of the contracted Type 102 Commander air defence radars have October.
In September, a multi-year contract for over 300m was signed now been accepted by the UK MoD and the first system deployed at its for the in-service support of the six Type 45 destroyers.
Under the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers programme, a revised A revised delivery schedule has been agreed with the UK MoD on the build strategy was announced in March under which BAE Systems, as ARTISAN 3D Medium-Range Radar naval programme.
part of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance, will deliver substantial sections from Milestones on the Maritime Composite Training System for use at the Clyde and Portsmouth shipyards, as well as managing the integration HMS Collingwood are not being achieved on schedule.
A review of of the ships at Rosyth.
First steel was cut in July, engineering works to the remaining programme is being undertaken to agree a revised facilitate the delivery of the blocks from the Govan yard have been delivery schedule.
completed and substantial progress has been made in fabrication of units for the first ship, HMS Queen Elizabeth.
Following a review of forward workload, the business announced a redundancy programme in November involving a loss of up to 642 jobs.
On export programmes, the first Oman vessel was launched in June, and the first and second ships for Trinidad & Tobago were launched in August and November, respectively.
Surface Ships continues to support the Royal Navy as its long-term partner in the management of Portsmouth Naval Base.
