DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS ELECTRONICS, INTELLIGENCE & SUPPORT FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 1 Like-for-like organic sales growth of 6% over 2008 2 Underlying EBITA excludes a non-recurring accounting gain of 202m from the restructuring of the US pension schemes PERFORMANCE 2009 2008 2007 1 Sales 5,637m 4,459m 3,916m 2 Underlying EBITA 575m 506m 437m Return on sales 10.2% 11.3% 11.2% 3 Mike Heffron President, Electronics, Intelligence & Cash inflow 380m 380m 302m Support 1 Order intake 5,416m 4,904m 4,178m 1 Order book 4.5bn 5.2bn 3.5bn KEY POINTS Maintained leadership position in electronic warfare systems The Electronics, Intelligence & Introduced new infrared technology solutions to improve the effectiveness Support operating group, with of US Army troops 1 32,000 employees and Secured seven-year managed IT services contract for the US Treasury headquartered in the US, Expanded leadership position in hybrid electric propulsion for urban mass designs, develops, produces transit buses and services systems and Selected to provide US military counter-insurgency support services under a five-year urgent-needs contract subsystems for a wide range of military and commercial LOOKING FORWARD applications.
BAE Systems remains focused on winning strategic contracts in information technology, cyber, mission support and services.
The business continues to capitalise on its leadership positions The operating group comprises in electronic warfare and infrared technologies, and expand its diverse mix of commercial and four lines of business: civil government businesses in areas such as ship repair, information technology and Electronic Solutions, commercial aviation.
It also continues to invest in the growing fields of energy management, Readiness & Sustainment services and cybersecurity.
Information Solutions, Platform Solutions and Support Solutions.
1 1 SALES BREAKDOWN ORGANIC SALES GROWTH 6% Electronic Support 1 Solutions Solutions Like-for-like sales growth 30% 37% 14% Platform Information 19% Solutions Solutions 1 Approximately 32% of sales 34% are Readiness & Sustainment 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items see the Financial review on page 30.
3 Net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, dividends from equity accounted investments and assets contributed to Trust.
com COMMON MISSILE WARNING SYSTEM CMWS BAE Systems CMWS has achieved more than one million combat flight hours across some 1,800 systems, providing US Army aircraft with protection against infraredguided missiles during combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.
57 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE OPERATING GROUP REVIEWS CONTINUED Power management Our efficient, low-emission HybriDrive propulsion technology has been in service on buses since 1998.
It is currently powering more than 2,000 buses and transporting over a million passengers daily in cities in North America and London.
To date, these buses have accumulated more than 100 million miles, saved nearly 10 million gallons of diesel fuel, and prevented more than 100,000 tons of carbon emissions.
1 In 2009, Electronics, Intelligence & Support EI&S achieved sales of The US Navy selected a BAE Systems-Alliant Techsystems team for 1 5,637m 2008 4,459m.
On a like-for-like basis, sales growth was the Joint and Allied Threat Awareness System JATAS technology 6% over 2008. demonstration.
JATAS is the next-generation missile warning system to protect US Navy and Marine Corps helicopters and tilt-wing aircraft.
2 Underlying EBITA of 575m 2008 506m excludes a non-recurring accounting gain of 202m from the restructuring of the US pension Information Solutions schemes.
In 2008, Some two-thirds of the line of businesss activity is in support of the there was a credit of 23m from share scheme mark-to-market accounting.
The Information Solutions business also positioned itself among the largest providers of managed information technology services, receiving Electronic Solutions a seven-year contract to manage Information Technology IT operations Electronic Solutions continued to demonstrate its leadership position for the US Treasury, valued at up to $325m 201m.
in the electronic warfare market through Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP awards for electronic warfare suites on the F-35 Lightning II.
During The business received a contract for up to $148m 92m from the 2009, orders totalled more than $220m 136m.
Deliveries on the first US Department of Homeland Security to support the agencys fingerprint four LRIP contracts will conclude in 2012, and future contract awards image tracking programme.
are anticipated to support aircraft deliveries to the US government and In the government intelligence market, Information Solutions emerged international partner countries.
as a leader in analysis of full-motion video and other advanced imagery, US Army demand for thermal weapon sights drove deliveries of some doubling the number of its own imagery analysts, and opening a facility 36,000 systems valued at $340m 217m in 2009 under the five-year to train analysts for the military and intelligence communities.
Cumulative orders BAE Systems prominent role in the information technology sector was for these weapon sights exceed $500m 310m for 68,000 sights.
recognised by Computerworld magazine which named the business one US Army orders for the Common Missile Warning Systems CMWS of the top 100 IT employers in the US.
CMWS is a helicopter missile Platform Solutions warning system that detects incoming missiles, rejects false alarms, Platform Solutions further expanded its leadership in hybrid propulsion and cues the onboard infrared jamming system to the missiles location.
The HybriDrive propulsion system made its The system logged its millionth combat flight hour during the year.
European debut, demonstrated on vehicles in partnership with UK-based Two IDIQ contracts were received from the US Army for the Laser Target manufacturer, Alexander Dennis Limited.
As part of a Transport for Locator Module and the Drivers Vision Enhancer Family of Systems.
London trial programme, BAE Systems has hybrid propulsion systems The lightweight target locators enable soldiers to quickly, safely and for 12 double-deck and five single-deck buses.
accurately determine target coordinates in daylight or darkness, and the vision enhancement systems provide all-weather, day night visibility The business is well positioned for a hybrid bus production order for to operators of combat and logistics vehicles.
Initial orders for the two Londons transit fleet in 2010.
The efficient, emissions-reducing hybrid systems totalled $115m 71m in 2009. technology now powers more than 2,000 buses in North America and will 1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
com Laser Target Locator Modules Coyote Unmanned Aircraft System BAE Systems has been awarded a five-year Indefinite-Delivery IndefiniteBAE Systems, in partnership with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Quantity contract to produce Laser Target Locator Modules for the US Administration NOAA, completed the first successful test flight of Army.
The system provides an all-weather, lightweight, handheld laser its small, electric-powered Coyote Unmanned Aircraft System.
The target locator system that allows soldiers to accurately identify target lightweight aircraft can be equipped with sensors or cameras to perform locations while on foot, in daylight or at night, and in fog or smoke.
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance missions while the host aircraft remains in safe airspace.
It also has potential uses in weather forecasting.
NOAA funded the test flight, a major step forward for this innovative and one-of-a-kind system.
enter the Seattle transit fleet in 2010 following the award of a contract from Daimler Buses North America which received a 500-unit order with an option for 200 additional units from the Seattle Transit Agency.
Following the US Armys development of the Common Modular Power System as its standard power management architecture for all legacy and modern vehicles, the business received its first production contract in support of the Paladin self-propelled howitzer.
Platform Solutions received the launch order for its holographic pilot display technology.
The UK Ministry of Defence selected the Q-Sight helmet-mounted display for its Lynx helicopter programme, a development that positions the business for an expanded role in low-visibility operation of rotary wing aircraft.
The technology provides superior optical performance with reduced weight and cost.
Support Solutions The US militarys Human Terrain Teams programme awarded the business a $350m 217m, five-year contract to support urgent needs for recruitment, development and operational support of counter-insurgency efforts.
Human Terrain Teams embed social scientists within combat brigades to help tacticians in field environments understand local cultures.
A $320m 198m, five-year US Army contract was received to provide counter-Improvised Explosive Device IED operations and mission support covering comprehensive, all-source intelligence analysis to assist in the global counter-IED fight.
The US Navy awarded a $233m 144m contract for engineering and other services to support C4ISR Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance systems at land-based facilities, and on platforms such as ships, submarines and ground vehicles.
In the Ship Repair business, the US Navys first ever full ship modernisation was completed, a year-long, $31m 19m upgrade of the USS Bunker Hill.
The maintenance, repair and modernisation programme was concluded on time and met all critical milestones.
