DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW STRATEGY GLOBAL INITIATIVES... supported by our global initiatives The Group has four global initiatives in Land, Security, Readiness & Sustainment and Unmanned Aircraft Systems.
These provide an important focus for the transfer of best practice across its home markets, leveraging appropriate skills and capabilities to meet the requirements of its customers, and grow the business.
LAND SECURITY The objective of the land initiative is to create and sustain The emerging security strategy concentrates on helping a global land business, leveraging the Groups capabilities the Groups government and private sector customers and its home market strategy to achieve a pre-eminent strengthen border and transportation security, develop position in selected markets.
cybersecurity, and combat terrorism and organised crime.
Following the 2008 Executive Committee objective to progress development of the Groups home market security businesses and resulting acquisition of Detica in 2008, BAE Systems launched a global security initiative to address the global security market.
Security encompasses intelligence and resilience, and can be understood as the collection of technologies and services which detect, monitor, deter and defeat potential threats to civilian welfare.
The Group is focusing on its home markets, with significant emphasis on the US, UK and Australia, but also the emerging home markets in India and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
In each of these markets, the Group has an opportunity to work with its customers in a position of trust throughout the lifecycle of their programmes from consultancy to large scale systems integration.
RG35 BAE Systems continuously develops vehicles to support its customers Significant progress has been made during 2009.
The new RG35 mine protected multi-purpose fighting vehicle, developed by the Groups Land Systems South Africa business and launched during Intelligence & Support operating group made investments to increase 2009, combines high levels of survivability with the tactical capability of a modern its cybersecurity capabilities for the US government, establishing combat vehicle.
a leading edge Network Operations Centre.
In the UK, a team from across Programmes & Support won a significant security programme for a government client.
BAE Systems Australia is working with Detica to pull through data analysis technologies, and develop a distinctive The land initiative was launched in 2008 following the acquisitions position in the Australian market for security-related services of Alvis in 2004, United Defense in 2005 and Armor Holdings and solutions.
The Groups Land & Armaments operating group has moved from a confederation of acquired businesses to an integrated In 2010, the Group plans to accelerate growth in this important global business.
sector, strengthening its large-scale information technology, solutions integration and managed services capabilities, and working closely Global opportunities are pursued through all of the Land & Armaments with government and industry partners to address emerging trends.
operating groups lines of business.
The strategy places increased importance on leveraging the Groups positions in Saudi Arabia, Australia and India.
The Groups land sector business is adapting its business model for agility, flexibility and responsiveness.
It is adjusting its product offerings to match the procurement priorities and order sizes of the global customer base.
By realigning the business and tightly controlling costs, the land business remains a sustainable enterprise with a balanced risk profile that delivers shareholder value.
The global businesses are investing in product offerings designed to provide unparalleled performance capabilities for competitive prices.
The diversification of the Groups land portfolio, coupled with its adaptive strategy, enables flexibility and agility in the marketplace.
Detica NetReveal The Detica NetReveal solution for detecting fraud and organised crime has continued to show global sales growth.
It is used by banks and insurers, government and law enforcement agencies.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON OUR FOR MORE INFORMATION ON p60 p67 LAND & ARMAMENTS OPERATING GROUP OUR DETICA SECURITY BUSINESS 20 www.
com Implement our global Implement our global Continue to develop land systems strategy initiatives in Security, our global markets and deliver on our Readiness & efficiency and Sustainment and rationalisation plans Unmanned Aircraft Our Vision is to be the premier global defence, security and aerospace company THE GLOBAL Systems Our Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through p10 INITIATIVES ARE our commitment to Total Performance for all our customers Our Strategy KEY STRATEGIC Our Group Strategic Objective is Total Performance through Customer Financial Programme Responsible Focus Performance Execution Behaviour ACTIONS Our Values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold Strategic Actions Grow our EI&S Implement our global Establish in the UK Grow our home Implement our global Continue to develop business both land systems strategy sustainably profitable markets in the initiatives in Security, our global markets organically and via and deliver on our through-life business Kingdom of Saudi Readiness & acquisitions and efficiency and in air, land and sea Arabia, Australia Sustainment and improve our rationalisation plans and India Unmanned Aircraft efficiencies Systems Integrated Business Plans READINESS & SUSTAINMENT R&S UNMANNED AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS UAS The R&S initiative focuses on the growing worldwide market The UAS initiative aims to deliver tangible business for third party platform and systems support.
This is an area opportunities in each of the Groups home markets, enabling of opportunity in all of the Groups home markets.
specialist teams to leverage the best of BAE Systems global capability for its customers, and to provide a route into the international market for its UAS products and services.
R&S encompasses and expands upon traditional support activities.
It can be defined as the range of activities used in the preparation of a force to a mission-ready state and the support of this force during preparation for military operations, the operations themselves and in their aftermath over a period of time, potentially through life.
Through-life support has long been a differentiating value proposition for the Group, offsetting the variability in equipment procurement budgets, and the Group has an innovative range of R&S tools, processes, capabilities and contracting approaches.
Product support services and associated R&S represented approximately 40% of 2009 sales for BAE Systems.
The R&S initiative was launched in 2009 to explore opportunities for extracting further growth from the global R&S market by leveraging the Mantis The next generation autonomous system, Mantis, completed its maiden flight Groups established R&S services in new geographies and sectors.
in Woomera, South Australia, in October.
Mantis, an advanced technology demonstrator medium-altitude long-endurance UAS, went from concept to flight in just 19 months.
Specifically, the Group aims to position for third party support, move up the value chain, and maximise and defend the Groups original equipment manufacturer R&S position.
Through tailored integration of its R&S services and cross business collaboration, BAE Systems is well placed globally to extend its footprint in R&S services to a wider range of products and platforms.
The clear drivers for the UAS strategy, launched in 2008, were the opportunities that the global market for UAS presented for the The R&S initiative is moving into its implementation phase and Groups new and existing capabilities.
the lines of business are positioned to accelerate growth in this key market.
The UAS initiative ensures a collaborative approach to sharing expertise, technology and best practice across the Groups home markets.
BAE Systems is at the forefront of autonomous technologies and continues to develop complete integrated systems, such as Herti, Mantis and Taranis in the UK, as well as critical systems capabilities and technologies in ground station and mission systems in the UK and US, and autonomous flight control systems in Australia.
In June, BAE Systems acquired Advanced Ceramics Research, Inc. in the US, which provides three small and tactical UAS platforms the Coyote, Silverfox and Manta, as well as related support capabilities.
Key customer programmes that are critical to executing the UAS initiative in each home market have been identified and the strategy is being aligned across the respective businesses.
Together with the other global initiatives, the UAS initiative is targeted Type 45 BAE Systems multi-year contract, awarded in 2009 by the to deliver tangible business opportunities and long-term growth for UK Ministry of Defence, will deliver in-service support to the Type 45 anti-air the Group.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON p66 OUR UAS BAE Systems Annual Report 2009 21
