38 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments Professional services The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB, one of the worlds leading professional services companies, has transformed the Groups capabilities in this segment.
The integration is proceeding well and there are many opportunities to bring the Groups overall capabilities together and provide combined solutions for customers.
How we performed Revenue Programme and Transformational Successful integration project management acquisition of PB completed of PB into Balfour 558m in October 2009 Beatty Group Architectural services 2008: 290m Group now has a leading Capitalise on growing Project design Order book position in US civil range of large-scale Technical services infrastructure, especially opportunities to combine 1.4bn in transportation professional services Planning 2008: 0.4bn with downstream Strengthens presence Profit Consultancy construction capabilities in existing geographic markets and extends Leverage Heerys building 13m access to new geographies portfolio with PBs broader 2008: 14m capabilities in the US Revenue pro forma split, including Good progress integrating pre-acquisition PB PB, with early successes Expansion in power and water markets Balfour Beattys RoW 374m Professional services US Federal market and US businesses performed Australia areas of growth 974m UK 377m well in the year Including 5m share of joint ventures and associates 2008: nil.
Profit from operations before 23m exceptional charges 2008: nil and 8m amortisation of intangible assets 2008: 1m.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 39 MCGHealth cancer centre Heery was responsible for a unique collaboration with patient-advisors, as well as administrators and physicians, to design a state-of-the-art facility at the MCGHealth cancer centre in Augusta.
The strategy The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB transformed the Groups In addition, there is a growing range of large-scale opportunities for Professional services business and is a key step in Balfour Beattys companies who can integrate professional services with downstream strategy of becoming a global leader in infrastructure services.
The Group is now one of the worlds leading companies in The increasing scale and complexity of major infrastructure projects professional services for infrastructure markets and has a leading has seen an evolution in customers procurement strategies and a need position in US civil infrastructure, especially in transportation.
for interface management from lead suppliers.
Major procurers of infrastructure are also driven by the need to manage and control costs As well as extending Balfour Beattys global reach and ability to and recognise the benefits that early engagement, partnership and access new markets through professional services, the depth and long-term relationships can bring.
breadth of the Groups capabilities in existing geographic markets has been strengthened.
PBs strong brand is being maintained, with Balfour Beattys existing The marketplace Professional services businesses, Heery in the US and Balfour Beatty Around 56% of the Groups revenue in professional services is now in Management in the UK, being integrated into PB.
Heery will continue the United States.
to operate under its own brand as an affiliated company within PB.
The US transportation market is a key area.
While the re-authorisation The strategy in Professional services comprises the following of the US transport bill has been delayed, there is expected to be a key elements: significant increase in long-term funding in this sector.
In the US, incremental reinforcement in transportation in terms of The power market in the US, where the Group has a relatively small geography as well as capability, through selective recruitment and presence, and the water market, where its presence is currently even infill acquisitions: expansion in power and, in due course, in water, smaller, have significant long-term growth potential.
organically and through acquisitions: and further development in There are a number of opportunities in the US Federal market and it is federal markets.
an area which is being addressed through a combined Professional In the rest of the world, geographic expansion, particularly in services and Construction services strategy.
emerging markets, by leveraging the Groups global credentials in There are opportunities to maintain and grow the Groups Professional transportation, power and the programme management of large services activities in the US buildings market through geographic complex projects.
diversity, combining Heerys capabilities with PBs, leveraging Heerys Enhancing the strong base of technical and project management track record in design-build and focusing on Federal work, particularly expertise to compete for large-scale projects on a global basis.
in the justice, healthcare and aviation sectors.
40 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Professional services In the UK, there are opportunities in the transport and power sectors in Operational performance the medium term.
Parsons Brinckerhoff Australia, where PB operates in the transport, power, water, PB operates through a network of over 100 offices and has approximately consulting and building sectors, continues to be a strong market, 12,500 employees.
This extensive international network provides a with opportunities driven by the countrys natural resources base local presence and local customer relationships that support PBs global and Government funding for infrastructure projects.
The Group now has a presence in a number of countries in the Far East PB was a private company entirely owned by its shareholder with a range of opportunities, driven by the growth in infrastructure.
Strong support for the acquisition was obtained, with There has been a protracted downturn in Dubai, though there are future acceptances from 99% of those eligible to vote, significantly in excess opportunities in power and transportation in the Middle East.
In South Africa, there are opportunities to build on our work in the Good progress has been maintained on a number of PBs major power market and to expand the business.
projects including: the US$6.6bn OHare International Airport modernisation project in Chicago, where PB is construction manager: Financial performance the US$7.6bn Tunnel Project that will more than double NJ Profit from operations, before exceptional items and amortisation, TRANSITs commuter rail capacity between New York and New reduced by 1m to 13m 2008: 14m.
The result was impacted, Jersey by 2017.
PB, in joint venture, is providing preliminary as anticipated, by the seasonal nature of PBs profit profile.
PBs results engineering, quality assurance, tunnel engineering, civil structural have been consolidated into the Groups results from 27 October 2009, systems, facilities engineering, architecture, project controls and the date on which the acquisition was completed.
Tunnel construction began in 2009, Balfour Beattys Professional services businesses performed well in the with completion expected in 2017: year.
In the US, Heery had another good year, with revenue and profit the design of the I-69 highway project for the Indiana Department increasing.
In the UK, Balfour Beatty Management also performed well, of Transportation, comprising the final design for over 50 miles of with the Kings Cross Northern Ticket Hall opening at the end of 2009. new interstate highway from Oakland City to Crane, Indiana: The integration of PB into the Group is proceeding well.
The first phase design and engineering assistance for the US$2bn Dulles Corridor was completed by bringing Balfour Beattys existing Professional Metrorail extension, an 11.4 mile rail extension, including six services capabilities under the overall management of PB and the new stations, in Virginia, connecting to Washington Dulles Group is now focusing on capitalising on the significant opportunities International Airport.
to integrate professional services with the rest of its businesses.
the design of the AUS$3.5bn Melbourne desalination project, where As a result of the acquisition of PB, the order book in Professional PB is the designer in joint venture see case study on page 30 : services increased by 1.0bn to 1.4bn at the year-end 2008: 0.4m.
the East London Line project and North London Railway upgrade, where PB is the programme manager.
A joint integration team has been formed to ensure the smooth transition of PB into Balfour Beatty and to ensure that the Group maximises the opportunities available to it in the coming months and years.
Honolulu PB is responsible for the planning and design of a new, largely elevated, 20-mile transit system in Honolulu.
The Honolulu high-capacity transit corridor project will use light metro rail technology in a corridor that transects dense urban and suburban neighbourhoods.
PB has carried out a preliminary engineering and environmental study and approval to proceed is anticipated in 2010.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 41 Kings Cross Transport for London chose Balfour Beattys integrated approach for the project management and delivery of the Northern Ticket Hall at Kings Cross.
Balfour Beatty was responsible for overall programme management, as well as providing civil engineering, piling and mechanical and electrical services.
At the end of 2009, PB and Heery won a project to oversee In the justice sector, Heery was appointed by the Federal Bureau reconstruction and improvements on the Wacker Drive Viaduct in of Prisons to provide construction management for a 1,000-plus bed Chicagos Central Business District.
The US$100m project was facility in Yazoo City, Mississippi.
awarded by the Chicago Department of Transportation CDOT, The $28m expansion of the Adams County justice centre was which is responsible for the maintenance, repair and rebuilding of completed during the year, for which Heery provided design services.
roads, bridges and transit line extensions in the city of Chicago.
Good progress was also made on the $240m contract for the In Singapore, PB was appointed to provide consultant services on the management and construction of Berlin Prison in New Hampshire.
Jurong hospital project in Singapore.
When it is completed in 2015, In the education sector, Heery was awarded a construction the hospital will be the largest hospital in Singapore, providing acute management contract by Eagle Mountain-Saginaw Independent inpatient and outpatient care with a capacity of 550 beds.
School District for its new high school, stadium and career technology Early in 2010, PB was also appointed by the New Jersey Turnpike facility located north-west of Fort Worth, Texas and continued its work Authority, as part of a joint venture, to provide construction on the US$299m Durham NC Public Schools building programme.
management services for the Interchange 6 to 9 widening programme.
Heery also secured a contract with the National Archives and Records In the UK, PB was appointed to advise on the development of the major Administration NARA for supplemental construction management 600m Gateway gas storage system.
and design-build services at NARA facilities across the United States.
This is the third time Heery has secured this contract.
Existing professional services businesses in the UK US Good progress was made on management and design services at In the UK, Balfour Beatty continued to provide programme and project Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport: construction management skills for customers such as National Grid, British Energy, management services for a new Social Security Administration building BAA, the Olympic Delivery Authority and the Highways Agency.
in Baltimore: and at the new headquarters complex for the Food and Work on the M25 widening scheme: the Aquatics Centre, being built Drug Administration in Silver Spring, Maryland.
for the London 2012 Olympics, and the Groups alliances with National Overall, Heerys order book is down year-on-year but the medium-term Grid in the UK all made good progress.
Balfour Beatty was also selected, in joint venture, to support the delivery of National Grids US electricity transmission capital Outlook investment programme in New England over the next five years see case study on page 28.
The acquisition of PB has transformed the Groups capabilities in professional services.
In the US, Heery provides a mix of services with a strong emphasis on State and Federal work, especially in the education, justice and PB is one of the worlds leading professional services firms focused healthcare sectors.
on infrastructure and has a track record of profit growth and strong cash generation.
In the military healthcare sector, two Multiple Award Task Order Contract MATOC contracts were secured with the US Air Force The outlook for PB remains consistent with that at the time of the during the year.
We anticipate that the Professional services segment will account for approximately one quarter of the Groups profit The US$44m design and build contract for the complete renovation from operations in 2010. of Langley Air Force Bases Hospital to an outpatient clinic is being co-ordinated through the Fort Worth District of the US Army Corps of Engineers.
This followed an earlier MATOC contract for the complete renovation of Patrick Air Force Bases 72,000 sq ft outpatient clinic.
The new MCGHealth cancer centre in Augusta, Georgia, for which Heery provided design services, opened during the year.
