62 Annual report and accounts 2009 Board of Directors Chairman and Executive Directors Steve Marshall Ian Tyler Anthony Rabin Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Age 53.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Age 49.
Appointed a Director in he became Chief Executive in January 2005, having A Director since 2002, he became Deputy Chief 2005 and Chairman in May 2008.
Currently also been Chief Operating Officer since 2002 and prior to Executive in March 2008, prior to which he was Finance chairman of Delta plc.
He is also a former chairman at that, Finance Director.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 1996 Director.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide both QMH Limited formerly known as Queens Moat from the Hanson Group where he was finance director infrastructure investments business, having previously Houses plc and Torex Retail plc.
He was chief executive of ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries.
He is been managing director of Balfour Beatty Capital.
of Thorn plc and of Railtrack Group plc, having also currently a non-executive director of VT Group plc, and Prior to joining the Group in 1995, he was a partner at served as group finance director at each company.
president of Construction Industry Relief, Assistance Coopers & Lybrand and before that, a senior assistant His earlier career included a wide range of corporate and Support for the Homeless Ltd, the construction director at Morgan Grenfell.
and operational roles at Grand Metropolitan plc, and property industry charity for the homeless.
Non-executive Directors Mike Donovan Iain Ferguson CBE Hubertus Krossa Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 56.
Appointed a Director in September 2008. engineering graduate, he was most recently chief He was most recently chief executive of Tate & Lyle Until 2008, he was chief executive officer of KION operating officer of Marconi plc from 2001 to 2005.
PLC, a world-leading renewable food and industrial Group GmbH, a leading international material handling Prior to that, he was chief executive officer of Marconi ingredients company.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle in 2003, equipment manufacturer.
Prior to that, he spent seven Systems and was previously responsible for managing he spent 26 years at Unilever PLC in a succession of years on the main board of Linde AG, the worldwide major divisions of British Aerospace, Vickers and the roles culminating in his appointment as senior vice producer and supplier of industrial and medical gases.
He is also a He was previously a member of the European non-executive director of Greggs plc and is chairman management board of Whirlpool Europe and was also of Wilton Park, an independent and non-profit chairman of its German operating company, and has making Executive Agency of the British Foreign previously held non-executive directorships in the UK and Commonwealth Office.
He was formerly a for Wassall plc and Thorn Lighting Group.
He is currently non-executive director of Sygen International plc.
chairman of the supervisory boards of Eckelmann AG and Bauknecht Hausgeraete GmbH.
Our business Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 63 Andrew McNaughton Duncan Magrath Peter Zinkin Chief Operating Officer Finance Director Planning and Development Director Age 46.
A chartered civil engineer and Fellow of the Age 45.
A chartered accountant and an engineering Age 56.
Joined the Group in 1981 and became Planning Institution of Civil Engineers.
Appointed to the Board as graduate.
Appointed to the Board as Finance Director in and Development Director in 1991 after a series of Chief Operating Officer on 1 January 2009.
He joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as deputy senior positions in the finance function.
He is responsible Balfour Beatty in 1997, having spent 12 years with the finance director from Exel plc, where he was director for the Groups merger, acquisition and divestment Kier Group, and held the position of managing director of of investor relations and financial strategy, following activities as well as the development of Group strategy.
Balfour Beatty Civil Engineering from 2004 to April 2007, a number of senior financial roles in the UK and US.
Previously, he worked at the London Business School when he became Group managing director with and UMIST.
responsibility for civil engineering in the UK and the Groups interests in the Middle East.
He is a Liveryman in the Worshipful Company of Engineers.
Graham Roberts Gordon Sage Robert Walvis Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 51.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Age 62.
Appointed a Director on 1 January 2009. engineer, he is a non-executive director of BlackRock engineer, he was previously with the Royal Dutch Shell He is finance director of The British Land Company PLC, World Mining Trust plc.
Between 1970 and 2001 he held Group, latterly as chairman of the Global Corporate Centre.
one of the UKs largest quoted property companies.
a series of increasingly senior positions in Rio Tinto plc, He is a non-executive director of Associated British Ports Prior to joining British Land in 2002, he spent eight latterly as executive director responsible for its industrial Holdings Limited and Johnson Matthey plc, and chairman years at Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising minerals and diamonds businesses.
of the supervisory board of Allianz Nederland Groep NV.
in the real estate and government services sectors.
He is the senior independent Director.
Board Committee membership is as follows: Audit Committee Business Practices Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Graham Roberts Chair Mike Donovan Chair Steve Marshall Chair Robert Walvis Chair Mike Donovan Iain Ferguson Mike Donovan Iain Ferguson Hubertus Krossa Hubertus Krossa Graham Roberts Hubertus Krossa Gordon Sage Steve Marshall Gordon Sage Steve Marshall Robert Walvis Graham Roberts Ian Tyler Gordon Sage Robert Walvis
