48 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments Support services Our Support services businesses performed well.
Major contract wins with customers including United Utilities and QinetiQ contributed to a strong order book.
Balfour Beatty WorkPlace, our total facilities management business, had another strong year.
How we performed Revenue Upgrade and maintenance New AMP5 contracts won Successful start-up of of water, gas and in water sector, including AMP5 contracts 1,443m electricity networks 500m contract with Opportunities to win 2008: 1,548m United Utilities Total facilities management contracts to connect Order book and business services New five-year contract alternative energy outsourcing with National Grid in US sources to the electricity 4.5bn to support its electricity transmission network 2008: 2.9bn Highways network transmission capital management, operation Closer working with PB Profit investment programme and maintenance to provide integrated Strong performance in total solutions to customers 55m Rail renewals facilities management, in power market 2008: 52m securing new contracts Revenue split Further growth in and expanding range outsourcing, with broader of services for existing range of property-related Facilities Transport management customers 468m 414m and business services Seven-year integrated for customers Power Water facilities management 382m 178m Focus on continuous contract secured with improvement, efficiency QinetiQ and highest levels of Including 140m share of joint ventures and associates 2008: 130m.
Long-term operating and quality and safety in Profit from operations before 3m exceptional maintenance services won highways management credits 2008: nil and 2m amortisation of intangible assets 2008: 2m.
as part of M25 contract and rail renewals Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 49 United Utilities Balfour Beatty secured a five-year contract as part of United Utilities AMP5 long-cycle contract.
The contract, likely to be worth in the region of 500m, covers capital delivery for United Utilities throughout North-West England.
The work involves the delivery of clean water and waste water major projects as well as flood alleviation schemes.
In addition, there is a requirement to connect alternative energy The strategy sources, such as new wind farm capacity, to the electricity transmission Support services work is carried out through long-term contracts, network.
In the water sector, the new asset management plan period typically of five to seven years duration and often longer, providing for the utility companies, AMP5, begins in April 2010 and runs to 2015. recurring revenue streams.
The latest investment review allows for an investment of 22bn over It is characterised by a mixture of short-term and long-term activities the next five years, an increase of 7%.
and an understanding of customer needs to ensure that service Balfour Beatty won new AMP5 capital programme contracts, totalling solutions have a positive and lasting effect.
A number of water frameworks are still to be awarded In addition to working closely with customers to help achieve their with others coming to market mid AMP.
Additionally, many customers are goals and to deliver the contract successfully, there is a strong focus retaining an element of their programme to be let via competitive bidding.
on customer care and building long-term relationships that supports In the UK gas and electricity sectors, the Group has long-term contracts expansion of the scope of the contract and contract renewal.
in place with National Grid.
Balfour Beattys track record with National Continuous improvement and innovation is a key focus for management Grid in the UK was an important factor in winning a contract to support and for customers.
the delivery of National Grids US electricity transmission capital investment programme in New England see case study on page 28.
There is a trend towards greater levels of outsourcing and complex, multi-faceted contracts.
Balfour Beatty is well-positioned to grow in In the facilities management market, there continues to be a shift from this market as an integrated service provider, offering total facilities simple bundled contracts a combination of several single services to management incorporating business services outsourcing BSO more complex integrated contracts that embrace strategic management as well as energy, property management and business process of the customers property portfolio and business services.
In some cases, customers may seek to include certain operational The regulated utilities sector in the UK offers continuity of workload aspects and the consequential partial transformation of their business.
over long durations and the opportunity for increased vertical This is an important development in government markets, given integration with customers.
Balfour Beattys specialist capabilities, increasing budgetary constraints and there is an ever greater need including end-to-end, design to installation skills in electricity to deliver the same outputs for less money.
transmission, has been exported to overseas markets, including In highways management, the Highways Agency is increasingly the United States, Australia and New Zealand.
demanding that its contractors are able to supply an integrated, construction, operating and maintenance capability.
In the local The marketplace authorities roads market, the demand for the provision of integrated infrastructure and operational management is growing and developing.
In the gas, water and electricity sectors there is a continuing need to maintain and upgrade existing assets and to build new assets to In rail renewals, Network Rail and London Underground are, as support growth in developing economies.
expected, continuing to seek greater efficiencies.
In the case of Network Rail, this has resulted in reduced revenues for its suppliers Transmission and distribution network investment is forecast for at the beginning of its latest Control Period CP4.
significant growth to meet energy demands and the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
50 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Support services Financial performance Profit from operations, before exceptional items and amortisation, rose In the gas sector, there has been continued year-on-year efficiency by 6% to 55m 2008: 52m.
improvement on the North West Gas Alliance contract in the UK, where Balfour Beatty is working in a long-term partnership with In the utilities markets, overall performance was as expected.
In the National Grid on the design, management and construction work water sector, there was a fall in revenue on contracts in the last year of required to replace Victorian metallic gas mains with modern the AMP4 cycle, as had been the case in previous AMP cycles.
AMP5 capital programme contracts, totalling some 700m, were won in 2009, with customers including United Utilities and Anglian Water.
Building and outsourced services The contracts commence in April 2010 and efficiency levels will Balfour Beatty is a leading total facilities management TFM provider improve through the life of the AMP5 cycle.
The overseas power with a track record in the public and regulated sectors.
transmission business also produced a good performance.
Core service specialisms include building maintenance, cleaning, There was another strong year in facilities management and business catering, security, energy management and vehicle fleet management support outsourcing, with organic growth and the successful expansion for customers in the public and private sectors.
of the range of services for customers.
This business is investing in a There were strong performances on major contracts such as the national operations centre in 2010, which will be focused on increasing Department for Work and Pensions and Romec, the joint venture in the operational efficiencies of existing and future contracts.
which the Group has a 49% interest, which provides facilities There was a good performance in highways management, including management services for Royal Mail sites within the UK.
the start of operation and maintenance services on the M25 in At the end of 2009, a 105m contract with QinetiQ, one of the worlds September 2009, and in rail renewals.
leading defence technology and security organisations, was secured to provide integrated facilities management services for the next seven Operational performance years.
The contract will provide a range of property-related support Water and power services to QinetiQs portfolio of 31 sites across the UK.
Balfour Beatty United Utilities appointed Balfour Beatty for its AMP5 infrastructure will work in partnership with QinetiQ to transform service levels, contract, covering capital delivery throughout north-west England as provide operational efficiencies and deliver cost reductions.
part of United Utilities AMP5 long-cycle contract.
The total value of Balfour Beatty expanded its relationship with the Metropolitan the five-year contract is likely to be worth in the region of 500m.
Police Authority, winning a new 25m contract for the total facilities Balfour Beatty secured a five-year extension, likely to be worth over management of their command, control and communications buildings, 100m in total, to its existing alliance partnership contract with Anglian and secured extensions to its work with the BBC, Royal Mail and BT Water.
The extension is part of the @one Alliance 1bn AMP5 through the Monteray joint venture.
programme and covers the whole of Anglian Waters region in the Facilities management is also an integral part of the Groups PPP offer east of England.
and financial close on Building Schools for the Future schemes at Work to support the delivery of National Grids electricity transmission Southwark in 2009, and at Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton in 2010, capital investment programme in the UK, through the Eastern alliance, added to the portfolio of contracts in the education sector.
and in the United States for National Grid, in New England through a Transport joint venture with MJ Electric, progressed well.
In highways management, financial close on the design, build, finance Work on electricity transmission projects in Australia and New Zealand and operate contract on the M25 motorway in May 2009 provided a continued to make good progress.
long-term workstream for the business.
Balfour Beatty, as part of the Connect Plus consortium, is providing operating and maintenance services for the 30-year concession see case study on page 26.
Metropolitan Police A wide range of support services is provided to the Metropolitan Police Authority.
The major elements of the contract include building electrical services, building fabric maintenance, security and hygiene services across an estate of 400 buildings throughout London.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 51 UK rail renewals Balfour Beatty is one of the UKs largest track renewal organisations, working on about 25% of Network Rails network, predominantly in the South-East.
During the year, Balfour Beatty was also reappointed as the service Outlook provider for the Highways Agency under the Area 4 contract in Kent Underpinned by a good forward order book, which increased by 55% and Sussex.
The five-year contract for maintenance and improvement to 4.5bn during the year, we expect to achieve a similar level of services is worth approximately 172m to the joint venture.
After the performance in Support services in 2010. initial five-year period, there is the option to extend the contract for a Having secured a number of utilities contracts under AMP5, the focus further two years.
will be on ensuring those contracts are efficiently mobilised.
There was also a good performance in Area 2 Somerset, Avon, In the UK utility sector, there is good potential to export skills into Wiltshire, Gloucestershire and Devon for the Highways Agency new markets and further vertical integration is expected with asset and the contract has been extended for a further year to 2012. owners seeking to outsource more of their network maintenance and In the local authority market, the Group is also a leading provider of investment programmes.
highway maintenance and asset management.
There was good There are opportunities to capitalise on significant growth in the operational performance on local authority roads in North Yorkshire, alternative energy sector with the requirement to connect those Essex, the North-West of Scotland, Royal Windsor & Maidenhead, sources of power to the transmission network.
There will also be Wokingham and Westminster.
greater opportunities to provide a more integrated offering to In rail renewals, as expected, there have been reduced volumes at the customers, following the acquisition of PB which has strong outset of Network Rails latest Control Period CP4, which runs from customer relationships in the power market.
April 2009 to March 2014, as Network Rail seeks greater efficiencies.
In facilities management, there is the potential for increased The business is working hard to standardise its delivery of track outsourcing as part of the more for less agenda.
Procurement trends, renewals to Network Rail in order to help meet these efficiency targets.
accelerated by the economic downturn and the sustainability agenda, It is focused on optimising the time spent on track possessions and continue to provide significant opportunities.
has made a significant investment in new tamping machines to help Increasingly, total facilities management contracts cover a broader achieve its targets.
During the year, Balfour Beatty secured an 80m service scope and the Group has been successful in positioning itself extension to a track renewal contract with Network Rail.
to secure contracts in this area.
There is an increasing trend towards Balfour Beatty, in alliance with London Underground, also secured a business services outsourcing, which the Group is targeting for growth.
two-year, 130m extension to its renewals contract during the year.
In the highways management and rail renewals markets, the focus will The contract covers the SSL and BCV lines Metropolitan, District, be on continuous improvement and customer satisfaction to maintain Hammersmith & City, Bakerloo, Central and Victoria lines.
and, where possible, increase market share.
The works include deep tube reconditioning, ballasted track renewals, and points and crossings.
As well as meeting stringent delivery and cost targets, there is an increasing premium on continuously improving safety and quality for customers in this area.
