74 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report Business and financial review On 23 October 2009, the Company announced that it had received valid The Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, the Chief Executives review on acceptances in respect of 199,469,067 New Shares, representing 97.06% of pages 10 to 20, the Operating review on pages 37 to 55, the Sustainability the total number of New Shares offered to shareholders under the Rights Issue.
statement on pages 56 to 61 and the Financial review on pages 64 to 66, Subsequently, on 23 October 2009, the Company then announced that JPMorgan are incorporated by reference into the Directors report.
Cazenove Limited and RBS Hoare Govett Limited, as joint bookrunners, had procured acquirers for the remaining 6,033,170 New Shares for which valid Results and dividends acceptances had not been received, at a price of 287p per New Share, bringing the The results for the year are shown in the audited financial statements presented total issued New Shares to 205,502,237, the difference arising due to the issue on pages 92 to 159 and are explained more fully in the Chief Executives review, of 69,176 ordinary shares on the exercise of share options under the Companys the Operating review and the Financial review.
An interim dividend payment of employee share plans between 17 September and 2 October 2009 the record 4.8p net per ordinary share restated for the bonus element of the rights issue date for the Rights Issue.
With the New Shares, the total issued ordinary shares was approved by the Board on 11 August 2009 and a final dividend of 7.2p at 23 October 2009, stood at 685,007,456. net per ordinary share will be recommended at the Annual General Meeting.
At 31 December 2009, the Directors had authority under shareholders resolutions Adjusting the dividends prior to the October 2009 Rights Issue for the bonus approved at the AGM and at the separate Class meeting held in May 2009 element, gives a total of 12.0p net per ordinary share, which compares to purchase through the market 47,804,226 ordinary shares and 16,775,968 with a restated total dividend per ordinary share of 11.1p net in 2008. preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
This authority expires at Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share have the conclusion of the separate Class meeting which will follow the 2010 AGM or been paid for 2009 2008: 10.75p gross per preference share.
on 1 July 2010 whichever is earlier.
The Directors continued to offer the dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
Throughout the year, all the Companys issued share capital was publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange and it remains so as at the date of this report.
Research and development There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding nor on the transfer The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and development of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association and the in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and processes and innovation prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders in areas such as information technology and asset management systems.
A range of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares of development initiatives is undertaken throughout the businesses which is or on voting rights.
supported by links with selected universities.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 30 on pages 146 to 148.
The Group innovation forum is one of several fora through which the Company Shares held by the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust are not voted.
is enhancing the sharing of knowledge and the encouragement of joint working between the various businesses.
The forum has representatives from each of There is no person who has special rights of control over the Companys share the Groups operating companies.
Improving the ability to tap into the depth and capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
breadth of expertise and capability which exists within the Group, and sharing it, As at 3 March 2010, the Company had been notied in accordance with the is seen as a key enabler and catalyst for innovation, as well as serving to identify Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority of the where the Group can respond better to the needs of its various stakeholders.
following interests in its ordinary share capital: Details of the Groups 2009 research and development expenditure are given in Number Percentage Note 4.1 on page 107. of ordinary of ordinary shares held shares held Share capital and shareholders Standard Life Investments Limited 54,467,327 7.95 Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2009, including the Legal & General Group plc 41,145,213 6.00 rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in Note 27 on pages 140 and Prudential plc 35,281,599 5.15 141.
During the year to 31 December 2009 no ordinary or preference shares were Blackrock Inc 33,968,367 4.96 repurchased for cancellation.
1,337,199 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held under the Companys savings-related share option scheme Lloyds Banking Group plc 29,805,016 4.35 and 433,694 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held AXA SA 22,003,406 3.21 under the Companys executive share option schemes.
Directors On 17 September 2009, the Board announced that the Company had entered into The names of the Directors at the year-end are shown on pages 62 and 63 together an agreement to acquire Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc for a cash consideration of with brief biographical details.
Full details of Directors service agreements, US$626m 382m which would be substantially financed by a fully underwritten emoluments and share interests, can be found in the Remuneration report on Rights Issue of 205,472,590 new ordinary shares New Shares at an issue price pages 82 to 90. of 180p per New Share and on the basis of three New Shares for every seven existing ordinary shares.
On 1 January 2009, Andrew McNaughton was appointed as an executive Director and Graham Roberts was appointed as a non-executive Director.
At the general meeting held on 7 October 2009, holders of the Companys ordinary shares approved the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc and the rights issue Stephen Howard retired from the Board on 17 August 2009 and Iain Ferguson was and they also approved an increase in the Companys authorised share capital appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2010. from 350m to 500m by the creation of an additional 300m ordinary shares of 50p each.
Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 75 At its Board meeting in March 2010, as part of its annual audit of corporate Board Committee membership governance compared with the Combined Code, the Board considered the Owing to the changes in the composition of the Board, the membership of each independence of the non-executive Directors against the criteria specified in the of the Companys Board Committees has been reassessed.
As at 3 March 2010, Combined Code and determined that each of them continues to be independent.
the membership of the Committees is as follows: In particular, the Directors considered the position of Robert Walvis, Senior Audit Business Practices Nomination Remuneration Independent Director, who will have completed nine years of service on the Board 1 2 Graham Roberts Mike Donovan Steve Marshall Robert Walvis in September 2010.
In view of Mr Walvis significant contribution to Board and Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Board Committee discussions, the judgement he exercises and the challenge he provides, the Board had no hesitation in concluding that he remains independent.
Mike Donovan Iain Ferguson Mike Donovan Iain Ferguson Hubertus Krossa Hubertus Krossa Graham Roberts Hubertus Krossa Mike Donovan, Gordon Sage and Robert Walvis are due to retire by rotation Gordon Sage Steve Marshall Gordon Sage Steve Marshall as Directors at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Iain Ferguson, who was appointed by the Board since the date of Robert Walvis Graham Roberts Ian Tyler Gordon Sage the last AGM, will offer himself for election in accordance with the Companys Robert Walvis Articles of Association.
Notes: Non-executive Directors are appointed for specific three-year terms and it is part of 1 Graham Roberts was appointed chairman of the Audit Committee on 5 March 2009. the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee to review all appointments of 2 Mike Donovan was appointed chairman of the Business Practices Committee on 17 August 2009 non-executive Directors at three year intervals, or as near to that as is practicable following the retirement of Stephen Howard.
and make recommendations to the Board accordingly.
Directors interests 2009 Board and Board Committee meetings No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board meetings Group during the period under review.
The Directors have put in place procedures and meetings of the Audit, Business Practices, Nomination and Remuneration to ensure the Board collectively and the Directors individually comply with the Committees during the year are set out in the following table.
disclosure requirements on conicts of interest introduced on 1 October 2008 under the Companies Act 2006.
At its meeting each January, a formal declaration Business Name of Director Board Audit Practices Nomination Remuneration of interests is reviewed by the Board.
M J Donovan 11 12 3 4 3 3 2 2 The interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company and its subsidiary 2 S L Howard 6 7 1 1 0 1 3 3 undertakings and their interests under the long-term incentive scheme the Performance Share Plan 2006, the deferred bonus plan and share options, are G E H Krossa 10 12 3 4 3 3 3 4 set out in the tables in the Remuneration report commencing on page 82.
D J Magrath 11 12 3 S Marshall 12 12 4 4 3 3 2 2 4 4 There have been no changes in their respective interests since 31 December 2009.
A J McNaughton 11 12 Directors indemnities A L P Rabin 10 12 The Company grants an indemnity to all of its Directors to the extent permitted by G C Roberts 11 12 4 4 3 3 law.
These indemnity amounts are uncapped in relation to losses and liabilities G H Sage 10 12 4 4 2 2 3 4 which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as a Director of I P Tyler 12 12 2 2 the Company, or in any office where such duties are performed at the request of the Board, or as a result of their appointment as Directors.
R J W Walvis 10 12 4 4 2 2 4 4 P J L Zinkin 11 12 Directors training Notes: Directors receive a significant induction programme and a range of information 1 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Directors could attend either about the Company when they join the Board.
This includes considerable following their appointment during the year, or as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
background information on Balfour Beatty, its codes of business conduct and 2 Retired on 17 August 2009. ethics, processes for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and Board procedures.
In addition, they also take part in a series of one-to-one meetings with other 3 Mr Marshall attends the Audit Committee but is not a member.
members of the Board and senior executives which include briefings on the 4 Several Board Committee meetings also took place during the year specifically in relation to the Companys business strategy, financial procedures, business development and rights issue and acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc. other key issues.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to illness and prior business commitments.
In each case, where Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee The training programme is supplemented throughout the year by a series of meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and internal and external updates, including visits to operating companies to meet local provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chairman, management and visits to Balfour Beatty projects both in the UK and overseas.
76 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report Normally, day-long meetings take place for each non-executive Director four times The Board each year.
The Board currently comprises 12 Directors, of whom seven, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
Details of the changes during the year can be found Presentations on ad-hoc topics are then arranged as appropriate, for example, on under the heading Directors on page 74.
The Directors believe that the Board new material laws or regulations as they affect the Group or the Directors.
In 2009, continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and retains the ability to the Board received guidance notes on such topics as the final implementation of provide effective leadership to the Group.
the Companies Act 2006, the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code, the Walker Review, the Shareholders Rights Directive and the Bribery Bill.
Throughout 2009, Ian Tyler was Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director was Robert Walvis.
Each Director has also been enrolled in an external facility which provides a wide-ranging programme of technical briefing, education and training throughout The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and has a the year.
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes the matters summarised below.
Auditors Determining the Groups strategic direction Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors to the Company and a resolution for their appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Approving annual budgets and financial reporting, including the annual and half-year results and interim management statements Corporate governance and the Combined Code Approving interim, and recommending final, dividends Overview Approving major acquisitions and disposals and significant capital expenditure The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Listing Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of Ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council which is appended objectives and reviewing management performance to the UK Listing Rules, how they have applied its principles and whether they Setting the Companys values and ethical standards have complied with its provisions through the accounting period.
The Company has complied with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority relating to the Approving policies and systems for risk management and assurance provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting period other than in two respects: The Board reviewed its list of reserved matters in 2009 and, most recently in March 2010.
The terms of reference of the Board and the Board Committees are available i Graham Roberts was appointed chairman of the Audit Committee on 5 March on request from the Company Secretary and are also displayed on Balfour Beattys 2009 having succeeded Steve Marshall as the Committee chairman.
Descriptions of the specific responsibilities his appointment as Chairman of the Company in May 2008, Steve Marshall which have been delegated to the principal Board committees are also provided had continued to chair the Committee on a temporary basis pending the on pages 77 to 79. appointment of his successor.
He continued to attend Committee meetings during 2009.
Board procedures Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged from previous years.
ii The effectiveness of the Groups procedures is kept under review by the Papers are generally sent out at least three business days in advance of the Business Practices Committee BPC and not by the Audit Committee.
The papers include a written report from each of the Chief Executive, principal reason for this is that the BPC, in particular, focuses on the Companys the Chief Operating Officer, the Finance Director, and the director of Safety, Health business conduct, its ethics and values and, ensuring that procedures exist for and the Environment.
At the meetings, oral reports are made on issues arising employees to raise concerns in confidence, is an integral element within its from the written reports and both those and other matters of immediate interest or overall remit.
The Audit Committee is kept informed of any allegations of fraud concern are discussed by the Board, for example mergers and acquisitions activity.
or poor financial controls and internal audit are involved in carrying out investigations into such claims.
Apart from the meetings that approve the interim and final results respectively a separate presentation on a topic of interest or concern, such as the operations of a Honorary President particular business, is normally made to the Board.
Each meeting lasts three to four Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed to hours, but can be longer.
this position in May 2003, following his retirement as Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on appropriate Chairman governance matters, ensuring good information flow and for ensuring that Board Steve Marshall became Chairman in May 2008, having joined the Board in procedures are followed.
He is also available to individual Directors for advice on November 2005.
Steve Marshall spends an average of two days per week on these procedures.
the business of the Company.
He is also non-executive chairman of Delta plc.
The Board considers that his other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder his activities as Chairman of the Company or Committees.
Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 77 2009 meeting programme Committee membership is shown on page 63.
Most meetings of the Board during 2009 were held in London, with three meetings held elsewhere.
On the evening preceding a Board meeting, the Directors will meet and will generally focus their discussion on a pre-determined developmental theme, led by one of the executive Directors, other senior management or a specialist external speaker.
For example, in 2009, the themes included innovation, reputation and brand and strategy.
At meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities in accordance with its remit.
In particular, the following topics were some of those which were comprehensively reviewed: Medium-term plan and 2009 annual budget Investor relations IT strategy Audit Committee Rights issue and the acquisition and integration of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc The terms of reference for the Committee are based on the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council formerly Smith Guidance.
Business reviews Rail and Construction services The terms of reference were approved by the Board in October 2003 and updated Values and ethics most recently in July 2009.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are summarised below: In addition, the Board dedicates particular meetings to certain key business 1 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal themes, for example health and safety, strategy, and succession planning.
announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: These meetings are also attended by senior managers, as required from time to time.
2 to review the Groups internal controls established to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks, and receive reports from management on the effectiveness Evaluation of the systems they have established and the conclusions of any testing carried Formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and of the principal Board out by the internal and external auditors: Committees, as well as individual assessments of the Directors themselves, are normally carried out by an external consultant triennially, with internal 3 to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function including assessments carried out in the intervening two years.
its work programme: The most recent evaluation was completed in February 2010 using an external 4 to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the consultant, who was appointed following a detailed assessment of the services external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of provided by a number of providers and a series of interviews.
the external auditor: and The evaluation process comprised a series of one-on-one interviews with each 5 to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external member of the Board and other members of the senior management team and the auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the report has been reviewed by the Board at a meeting dedicated for this purpose.
external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The comprehensive nature of the review followed regulatory guidance on the The Committee has been chaired by Graham Roberts since 5 March 2009. evaluation of the Board, its delegated committees and individual members.
Members attendance at Committee meetings is shown on page 75.
The Committee is supported by the Company Secretariat.
All members of the The Board has discussed the outcomes of the report and will make any appropriate Committee have extensive experience of management in large international changes in due course.
Graham Roberts is a chartered accountant and is finance director In the intervening years, an evaluation process is carried out by the Company of The British Land Company PLC and has been identified by the Board as having Secretary, at the request of the Chairman.
This comprises an assessment recent and relevant financial experience.
questionnaire covering the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees including Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board for a period of up to composition, arrangements for and content of meetings, access to information and three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, administrative procedures.
so long as members continue to be independent.
At the Board meeting following Board Committees each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides an oral report The Board has established several Committees, each with defined terms of on the work of the Committee and any significant issues that may have arisen.
reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Committees Four meetings of the Committee were held in 2009.
At the invitation of the terms of reference are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain comprehensive Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Group Risk and relevant.
The principal Committees terms of reference are displayed on the Management and Assurance, the Deputy Chief Executive and the Finance Director website www.
In addition, any independent non-executive Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend meetings.
Procedures for Board Committees mirror those adopted for Board meetings, with papers generally distributed to members at least three business days before the meeting.
The minutes of the Committee meetings are sent to all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
78 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report In 2009, as in previous years, the main purpose of the February and August External auditor rotation Audit partners are rotated every five years.
The advisory meetings of the Committee was to consider the final and interim results partner will be changing in 2010 and the audit engagement partner will be respectively, a process which is well established.
At each of these meetings, the changing in the 2011 financial year.
Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial reporting issues and Consideration would be given to carrying out an audit tender process in judgements and reports from management and internal and external auditors.
circumstances where the external auditors performance has been called into Throughout 2009, the Committee has continued to review the Groups risk question, or where, through the audit partner rotation process, no suitable management processes.
As a result, the Committee felt able to recommend to the replacement was identified.
Board that it might properly conclude that the Company continued to maintain a Nomination Committee sound system of internal control and that a proper review of the effectiveness of The Committee is chaired by Steve Marshall and members attendance at the the Companys systems of internal controls had been completed.
meetings of the Committee is given on page 75.
The Committee is supported External auditor independence and effectiveness to assess the independence by the Company Secretariat.
The Committee, which meets as and when required and effectiveness of the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, the Committee carries 2009: two meetings, keeps under review the composition and balance of the out a formal review annually comprising the following elements: Board and makes recommendations to the Board on all new appointments and re-appointments of non-executive Directors.
During the 2009 financial year, an Non-audit work compliance with the Group policy is tested each year.
external search consultancy was engaged to seek candidates to join the Board as At each meeting, the Committee also reviews the non-audit work which has non-executive Directors, who had current or recent experience as a chief executive been carried out by the external auditor and that planned, together with the of a public company and who had operating business experience in Europe and associated fees.
The objective set out in the Companys policy is to ensure that elsewhere.
The Committee reviewed candidates as presented by the consultancy the external auditor is not placed in a position where their independence is, and Committee members were involved in the interview process before making or might be seen to be, compromised.
Under no circumstances will any their recommendations to the Board.
All members of the Board were given the assignment be given to the external auditor, when the result is that: opportunity to meet Iain Ferguson prior to his appointment.
as part of the statutory audit, they are required to report directly on their own Remuneration Committee non-audit work: The Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Robert Walvis and they make management decisions on behalf of the Group: members attendance at the meetings of the Committee is given on page 75.
The Committee met four times during 2009.
The Committee is supported by the a mutuality of interest is created: Company Secretariat.
Information about the workings of this Committee during they act as advocates for the Group: or the financial year is set out in the Remuneration report commencing on page 82. the level of non-audit fees is such, relative to audit fees, as to raise concerns Business Practices Committee about their motivation in forming objective judgements.
The Committee was chaired by Stephen Howard up to his retirement in August 2009 and, since then, by Mike Donovan.
Members attendance at the meetings of Under the policy outlined above, all requests to engage the external auditor for the Committee is given on page 75.
The Committee is supported by the Company non-audit work are subject to the approval of the Finance Director under certain Secretariat.
criteria, or otherwise, the Committee.
The external auditor also complies with the Accounting Practices Board APB Ethical Standards applying to non-audit services.
The Committee met three times in 2009.
The main topics considered by the There is no inconsistency between these APB standards and the Companys policy.
Committee during the year related to health, safety and sustainability, and ethics, values and business conduct.
In light of the settlement with the Serious Fraud In 2009, the external auditor carried out a significant amount of non-audit related Ofce in October 2008, this Committee focuses significant attention on values, work principally in connection with the acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff Inc the Groups Code of Conduct which was revised and launched across the Group in and its post-acquisition fiscal restructuring.
Other non-audit work carried out November 2009 and on the training which will ensure that the Groups business during 2009 related, in the main, to tax advice compliance in Europe and the US.
principles are properly embedded throughout the business.
The Committee considers that the Company receives particular benefit from the advice provided by its external auditor, given their wide and detailed knowledge The Committee discussed the delivery of health and safety in the long term and of the Group and its international nature.
focused on the Groups Zero Harm campaign.
A particular challenge had been to ensure that the Zero Harm initiative would be adopted and implemented in Annual internal assessment a detailed internally prepared assessment of the multiple jurisdictions and cultures around the world.
The Committee noted that previous years external audit process, together with any identified improvement Zero Harm had been enthusiastically embraced by businesses both inside and recommendations.
In carrying out this assessment, each operating company outside the UK.
within the Group is required to evaluate the performance of the assigned external audit team and to compare that performance against the previous year.
Regular reports were received by the Committee on the Groups charitable activities, on its procedures in relation to staff being able to raise concerns, External auditors assessment an assessment is also carried out by the in confidence, and on specific incidents.
external auditor in consultation with the operating companies using a structured questionnaire.
In addition, the Audit Committee also participates in responding Group Tender and Investment Committee to the questionnaire.
This Committee comprises the executive Directors and the Group managing directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, one of the other Having completed its review and having received their formal statement of executive Directors.
Its main purpose is to review all major proposed contracts with independence, the Committee is satisfied that the external auditor remains projected contract values above a specified level delegated to it.
The Committee independent of the Company.
also has authority to approve capital expenditure applications and any proposed The Committee has carried out a review of the proposal made by the external investments or divestments up to certain specified limits determined by the Board.
auditor in respect of the audit fees and terms of engagement for the 2010 audit The Committee met on numerous occasions throughout the year and minutes of and has recommended that the Board proposes to shareholders that Deloitte LLP its meetings are circulated to all the Directors.
The Committee is supported by the continue as the Companys external auditor.
Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 79 Finance and General Purposes Committee a Group-wide certification that effective internal controls had been maintained, The Committee comprises the executive Directors and the deputy finance director or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown had occurred with or and is chaired by the Chief Executive, or in his absence, one of the executive without loss, the status of corrective action: and Directors and is supported by the Company Secretariat.
Its main purpose is to a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation of approve various routine banking and treasury matters, share option grants under significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
the Companys incentive schemes and other matters relating to share capital eg allotments.
The Committee met several times throughout the year and a The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups summary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided to all the Directors.
exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Relations with shareholders failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships with all absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, not all shareholders and ensures that shareholders are kept informed of significant the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these Company developments.
purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
The Company has therefore continued its long-established programme of communication with institutional investors and brokers throughout 2009.
Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes and framework Presentations of the half-year and full-year results were made in accordance for risk management.
These accord with the Turnbull Guidance on internal controls with the practice of previous years.
Approximately 140 meetings have been held and were in place throughout the year and up to the date of signing this report.
at regular intervals through the year with institutional shareholders, brokers and The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of different analysts including an investors event in June 2009, which included a visit to processes, some of which are interlinked.
These include: the Aquatics Centre at the Olympic Park.
This communications programme will continue and be expanded where appropriate, subject to the constraints the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company and of regulation and practice.
of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, any relevant Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and Finance Director, hold meetings mitigating actions: with the Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy, financial performance and specific major investments.
The Chairman monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and has also met with a number of these institutional shareholders and the other forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular non-executive Directors are invited to do so whenever they wish.
Care is exercised areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update managements to ensure that any price sensitive information is released to all shareholders at the understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the methods same time in accordance with UK Listing Authority requirements.
used to mitigate and control the risks identified: Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders or their individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular basis.
The noncompany level and progressing to Board Committee level if value, or perceived executive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct and ready access exposure, breaches certain thresholds: to, and contact with, the Chairman and Robert Walvis the Senior Independent regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and environmental Director and through the regular reports to the Board, they are kept fully aware matters: of the views of the larger shareholders in the Company and the investment community generally.
the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: The Board also has access to the services of an independent external corporate and investor relations consultant who provides advice on the relationship between the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation the Company and its institutional investors.
and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: The Board regards the Companys general meetings as an opportunity to the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, communicate directly with private investors and actively encourages participative updated to address the changing risks of the business: dialogue with all the Companys shareholders.
The chairmen of the Board specific policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial Committees attend the AGM each year as well as the other Directors and management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers are available to answer questions from shareholders.
and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of The website www.
com is an important source of information on currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure procedures, the Group, including financial press releases, shareholder documentation, annual application of accounting policies and financial controls: and interim results presentations and the terms of reference of the principal a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions Board Committees.
in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together Risk management and assurance with the steps taken to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk reviews are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specific action management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
The Groups plans are developed: principal risks and how they are mitigated are summarised on pages 70 to 73.
The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial and internal controls during 2009 and to the date of this report.
Such assessment processes and controls and specific reviews in areas of perceived high business is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit Committee and the Business risk: and Practices Committee, including: the Groups policy in relation to staff being able to raise concerns, in confidence, the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: about possible improprieties on matters of financial reporting and other issues.
These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as appropriate, to all companies joining the Group.
80 Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report The Head of Group Risk Management and Assurance is responsible for ensuring to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance of the a comprehensive framework of assurance including internal audit exists within Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it: operating companies and for co-ordinating the risk management activities across to provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local practices and reward the Group.
individual and collective performance: No significant failings or weaknesses have been identified by the Board in to ensure that all applicants receive equal treatment regardless of age, origin, carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, religion or belief: and control systems.
to ensure that all employees similarly receive equal treatment and specifically in Political donations relation to training, development, and career progression.
At the AGM held on 14 May 2009, shareholders gave authority for the Company Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business goals and its UK subsidiaries to make donations to political organisations up to a and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees through maximum aggregate amount of 25,000 in the European Union.
This approval local publications, briefing groups, consultative meetings, training programmes is a precautionary measure in view of the broad definition of these terms in the and working groups to assist the process of continuous improvement in the way Companies Act.
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year they operate and do business.
Regular publications inform employees of major and shareholder authority will be sought again at the 2010 AGM.
Most of the UK-based businesses have In the US and Australia, donations totalling 51,000 were made by operating either attained or have committed to attain the UK Investors in People standard.
Most of these donations were made by Parsons Regular communication is maintained with the in-service and pensioner members Brinckerhoff Inc, a company acquired by Balfour Beatty in October 2009. of the Groups pension funds.
These donations are small and permitted by law.
In the main, they relate to support given for local campaigns.
Any political contributions or donations are Charitable activities tightly controlled and must be approved in advance in accordance with the In the Groups centenary year, a total of 2.5m has been donated to charitable Companys internal procedures and must also strictly adhere to the Companys causes by the Company, either directly, or via the Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust policies on probity set out in its Code of Conduct.
A review will be conducted in and 210,000 through the generous contributions of its employees.
2010 into the existing practices of operating companies and the merits of any continuing contributions or donations of this type.
As in previous years, the Groups main efforts have been directed to a small number of charities.
For the Companys centenary year, it funded the establishment Corporate responsibility of the Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust.
Through this fund, branded Building Better A full description of our approach to sustainability appears on pages 56 to 61.
Futures, the Company has worked principally in partnership with Action for This includes more information about the Groups charitable activities, which Children, Balfour Beattys charity for the last two years and The Princes Trust to are described briefly below.
deliver a series of programmes aimed at helping disadvantaged young people.
During the year, through a wide variety of fundraising events and efforts, Written report employees raised around 210,000 for Building Better Futures, a sum which For the ninth year, the Company is publishing a separate Sustainability report was matched by the Company.
25,000 was donated through the Balfour Beatty including values, ethics, safety, social and environmental issues.
A copy will be Charitable Trust to Project HOME in Philadelphia, which supports the Balfour available to shareholders attending the AGM and to preference shareholders Beatty Math Program for young students and to the education children programme attending the separate Class meeting.
The report will also be displayed on the within the Heery International Foundation.
com Building Better Futures will continue to be the main focus for the Groups UK Group policies charitable fundraising efforts in 2010.
The Groups published policies on health and safety, the environment, The Company has also been working with The Princes Trust as a founder of the business conduct and ethics remain in place and are subject to regular reviews.
Trusts Construction and Building Services Leadership Group and has been a Most recently, the business conduct and ethics policy has been reviewed and dedicated supporter of the Get into Construction programme.
This programme updated including the introduction of an external Ethics Helpline which is received a donation of 15,000 during the year.
The Company has also sponsored available to all employees and other parties with whom the Group works.
The Princes Trust Celebrate Success awards with a further donation of 25,000.
Further information on each of these policies and the progress which has been In total, during 2009, The Princes Trust received donations from the Company, made during the year is provided in the separate Sustainability report which will the Balfour Beatty Charitable Trust and employees of around 245,000 whilst be published in May 2010.
Action for Children received donations of approximately 107,000.
Support for other charities including Engineers Against Poverty, RedR which Employment provides emergency engineering help particularly in remote locations, City of As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in different Stoke Football Action Programme and Marie Curie Cancer Care has continued.
environments, it has evolved a decentralised management structure, with The Company is also a patron of CRASH, the construction charity and has employment policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
continued its membership of the charities Business in the Community and the However, each employing company is expected to comply with certain key Institute of Business Ethics.
principles in its design and practice of employment policy.
In addition, the Groups UK subsidiaries have paid a further 543,000 to a very wide These are: variety of other UK charitable causes in 2009. to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: In the US, Balfour Beatty Construction contributed more than 875,000 in 2009 to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, to support charities such as United Way, March of Dimes and national cancer through appropriate encouragement, training and development: research facilities.
Our governance Annual report and accounts 2009 81 As in previous years, the Group continues to enable UK employees to donate to 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: charities of their choice through the Give As You Earn scheme.
2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides The Company continues to sponsor the London Youth Games, Europes largest relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: youth sports programme.
In 2009, the Company donated 269,000 for the 2009 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements Games and supported the development of the volunteering and communications in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular systems 288,000.
As title sponsor, the Company has committed just over a transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys and the Groups further 1m to the Games in the period up to 2013. financial position and financial performance: and Further information on the Groups activities will be given in the separate 4 make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Sustainability report which will be published in May 2010 and is summarised in the Community investment section on page 60.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with Post balance sheet events reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and enable Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 34 on page 150. them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for Contractual arrangements taking reasonable steps for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate of its business activities.
The disclosure in this report of information about any and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in of those third parties is not considered necessary for the understanding of the the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Change of control provisions The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The Groups bank facility agreements contain provisions that, upon 30 days i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by notice being given to the Group, the lender may exercise its discretion to require the EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, give a true and fair view of the prepayment of the loans on a change of control and cancel all commitments under assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the agreement concerned.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors or employees on a change of control.
ii the Operating and Financial reviews, which are incorporated into the Directors A number of significant joint venture and contract bond agreements include report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty upon a change of control business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in of the Company.
These include the right of a counterparty to request additional the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal security and to terminate an agreement.
risks and uncertainties they face.
Payment of creditors Statements of Directors as to disclosure of information to auditors In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of transactions: to seek to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to abide by these so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which terms of payment as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods the Companys auditors are unaware: and or services in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2009, the yearthe Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to end creditors days of the Company were 25 2008: 24. make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the to the following risks foreign exchange, interest rate, price and credit are provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. described in the Financial review on page 66 and detailed in Note 20 on pages 120 to 127.
Directors report By order of the Board Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
C D Vaughan Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each General Counsel and Company Secretary financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group 3 March 2010 financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Registered Office: Regulation and they have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial 130 Wilton Road statements under IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors London SW1V 1LQ must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Registered in England Number 395826 fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:
