52 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments Infrastructure investments There was a good performance in the UK and US.
Four PPP schemes reached financial close in the UK, including the M25 DBFO, and there was a full-year contribution from Balfour Beatty Communities.
How we performed Revenue Operate a portfolio of Financial close on four Significant level of bidding long-term PPP concessions schemes Fife Hospital, for UK schools projects 829m in the UK, primarily in the Southwark Schools, M25 in 2010 2008: 553m education, health and DBFO and Carlisle Northern Explore new sectors for Concessions in hand roads street lighting sectors Development Route UK PPP UK: 31 US: 18 Operate a portfolio of Appointed preferred bidder Target remaining US long-term military for Blackburn with Darwen Singapore: 1 military family housing accommodation PPP and Bolton BSF scheme projects, along with Profit concessions in the reached financial close in unaccompanied military United States January 2010 personnel sector 42m 2008: 31m Operate an education PPP First full-year contribution Apply core US PPP P3 Including 567m share of joint ventures and concession, which is under from Balfour Beatty expertise into new areas associates 2008: 393m.
Profit from operations before 1m exceptional construction in Singapore Communities charges 2008: 5m and 18m amortisation of 15-year contractual intangible assets 2008: 9m.
Have interests in non-PPP Good underlying Including two at preferred bidder status.
arrangements come to an assets at Blackpool and performance from existing end at Barking Power in Exeter International concessions September 2010 Airports and Barking New ventures formed to Opportunities for Power Station focus on energy efficiency investment and ownership and renewable energy in of infrastructure assets US and PPP opportunities such as offshore electricity in Canada transmission Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 53 Birmingham Hospital Balfour Beatty has brought its expertise in funding major Infrastructure investments, together with its construction services and Support services capability, together at the Birmingham New Hospitals scheme.
When it is complete in 2012, the hospital will accommodate over 1,300 beds.
The strategy The marketplace In the UK, Balfour Beatty has a leading position in the Public UK Private Partnership PPP market and will continue to pursue bidding The medium-term prospects in the UK remain healthy.
opportunities which align with the Groups competitive strengths.
In spite of the uncertainty caused by the economic outlook and the 2010 In the US, Balfour Beatty is the market leader in the most developed General Election, a steady flow of opportunities is expected to continue, PPP market military housing and is well-positioned to capitalise on particularly in the education sector.
the Groups expertise to secure further privatisation projects in areas However, whichever Government is in power, the market for the such as energy, education and social infrastructure hospitals and procurement of public services will inevitably change over time and court houses.
alternative PPP models and new public procurement models will emerge.
During the year, a new office was opened in Toronto, Canada to There will be opportunities to bid a number of schools projects in the UK evaluate the demand and opportunities for alternative financing and in 2010 under the Building Schools for the Future BSF scheme, as well development solutions for funding and building infrastructure projects as developing future phases of schools projects where Balfour Beatty and capital improvements.
has already achieved financial close.
The skills acquired in PPP will also continue to be applied to the wider, Balfour Beatty is working on a number of schools schemes with local non-PPP infrastructure market, in particular where there are attractive education authorities, under the new Local Educational Partnership opportunities to take management control and to improve the quality LEP model, and further local authority work is likely to be delivered of assets in markets and sectors that are familiar to us.
Balfour Beatty using the same model.
is currently pursuing a number of such opportunities.
In the UK healthcare market, there has been a significant reduction Balfour Beattys ability to offer complete vertical integration of its in the number of hospital projects coming to market.
financing, professional services, project management, construction In the UK highways and street lighting sector, Balfour Beatty has a services, and facilities management maintenance skills, together strong track record.
The M25 design, build, finance and operate with the strength of the balance sheet and successful track record contract reached financial close in 2009 see case study on page 26. of delivering PPP schemes, is a key differentiator for the Group.
Social housing, prisons, highways maintenance, fire and rescue and roads projects in Ireland are all potential new sectors for the Group.
The Group has established a track record of adapting to new public procurement models and is confident that this success can be replicated in the future.
54 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Infrastructure investments US military housing Balfour Beatty is responsible for the development, construction, renovation, operation and management of military accommodation for the US Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
US Acquired in April 2008, Balfour Beatty Communities produces a reliable, The PPP P3 market in the US is slowly evolving.
long-term profit and cash flow stream from a high-quality portfolio of PPP military housing concessions and continues to perform well.
In addition to opportunities arising from the Department of Defenses realignment and growth requirements at existing military housing Four schemes at preferred bidder status reached financial close during projects, Balfour Beatty Communities is well-placed to win concessions 2009: the 170m Fife General Hospital PPP scheme: the 200m for more of the remaining military family housing projects, primarily with Southwark Schools for the Future programme: the 6.2bn PPP project the US Air Force and overseas, along with the unaccompanied military for the design, build, finance and operate DBFO contract for the M25 personnel housing projects.
motorway, as part of the Connect Plus consortium: and the 176m Carlisle Northern Development Route PPP concession.
Balfour Beatty is reviewing potential opportunities for new privatisation projects in the US for student accommodation and other educational Barking Power, which owns and operates a 1,000MW gas-fired power facilities: renewable energy, and social infrastructure projects such as station in east London, performed strongly.
Thirty percent of Barking hospitals and court houses.
Powers electricity output is sold in the open market and benefited from favourable rates.
Performance in 2010 will be dependent both on the While financial market conditions and the lack of liquidity were market price for electricity and, the new contractual arrangements that contributory factors to the lack of new P3 opportunities coming to will replace the existing 15-year gas and electricity contracts which the market during 2009, the outlook for the P3 market in both military come to an end in September 2010. housing and in other areas remains positive.
There was a reduction in passenger numbers at Exeter International Canada Airport and Blackpool International Airport, the impact of which was Balfour Beatty is evaluating the demand in Canada for alternative largely offset by cost savings, an improvement in passenger yields and financing and development solutions for funding and building increases in non-aeronautical revenues.
infrastructure projects and capital improvements.
In total, at 31 December 2009, the Group had committed equity and Balfour Beattys initial focus in this new PPP market for the Group will subordinated debt of 524m across 50 PPP concessions, including two be on the social infrastructure sector, including healthcare and justice.
Singapore In Singapore, financial close was reached on the first  performance based PPP in the country in 2008.
Construction of the Institute of UK Technical Education is due to be completed in 2010.
At present, there Balfour Beattys existing concessions performed well in 2009. are few opportunities in South-East Asia for further PPP schemes.
In the education sector, Balfour Beatty reached financial close on the Southwark Schools for the Future secondary programme in May.
Germany Europe The project involves the delivery of a major capital investment We continue to assess the attractiveness of the market in Germany programme over three phases covering 12 schools across the borough.
and other parts of Europe.
During 2009, Balfour Beatty Education was formed to draw together Non-PPP infrastructure the Groups investment, construction and facilities management There are potential opportunities for the Group to own and operate capabilities to help integrate Balfour Beattys expertise in this further regional airports, together with water assets, power networks important area.
and offshore electricity transmission assets, combining the Groups Financial close for the 450m Blackburn with Darwen and Bolton operational knowledge with investment capability to improve the Councils Building Schools for the Future BSF programme was achieved quality of assets.
The project involves the delivery of a major capital investment programme over a number of phases comprising the Financial performance extensive building, remodelling and operation of nine schools in Blackburn with Darwen by 2015 and the building, remodelling and The Groups PPP concession and non-PPP investment portfolio has operation of 15 schools, two special educational needs schools and grown both organically and through acquisition to become a very seven pupil referral units in Bolton.
significant part of the Groups business and a major driver of shareholder value.
In healthcare, Balfour Beatty reached financial close on the Fife General Hospital and Maternity Services PPP project for NHS Fife in May.
Profit from operations, before exceptional items and amortisation, Under the 30-year concession, Balfour Beatty will provide a new increased by 35% to 42m 2008: 31m, or by 27% at constant wing to Victoria Hospital in Kirkcaldy, due for completion in 2011, currency.
and maintenance and facilities management.
There was good underlying concession performance in the UK and a full-year contribution from Balfour Beatty Communities in the US.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 55 Southwark Schools for the Future This programme involves the delivery of a major investment project over three phases covering 13 sites.
Good progress was made on the 550m Birmingham New Hospitals Balfour Beatty is preferred bidder for the Florida Atlantic University scheme, the largest community healthcare development outside student accommodation PPP project.
London, and construction work was completed on Pontefract Hospital.
Balfour Beatty Capital Group Inc established new ventures during the In the roads sector, Balfour Beatty reached financial close in May, as year to capitalise on additional areas of opportunity for the Group.
part of the Connect Plus consortium, on the design, build, finance and Balfour Beatty Energy Solutions is focused on renewable energy, operate DBFO contract to provide additional capacity and maintain the energy efficiency, utilities management, and sustainability initiatives.
M25 motorway for the Highways Agency.
The M25 motorway DBFO The new company will manage energy consumption and spending at contract is a 30-year concession.
During this time Connect Plus will the communities currently operated within the existing military housing be responsible for widening key sections of the M25 and providing portfolio, as well as targeting other sectors.
operating and maintenance services and lifecycle replacements on the whole project, which includes strategic road links in and out of London, Singapore totalling 250 miles.
Balfour Beatty will invest 80m of equity in the Good progress was made on the new College West campus being project over the initial three years.
constructed for the Institute of Technical Education in Singapore and which is due for completion in 2010.
The new facility is being built and In July, financial close was achieved on the 176m Carlisle Northern managed through the first PPP of its kind in South-East Asia.
Development Route PPP concession contract for Cumbria County Council.
Under the 30-year concession, Connect CNDR will be Non-PPP infrastructure investments responsible for the design and construction of an 8.25km two-way Barking Power, which owns and operates a 1,000MW gas-fired power single carriageway road from the M6 Junction 44 to the A595 station in east London, performed strongly in 2009. southwest of Carlisle and the management, operation and ongoing There was a reduction in passenger numbers at Exeter International investment in approximately 150km of other existing roads in Cumbria.
Airport and Blackpool International Airport, with an improvement in Financial close on these projects has triggered significant construction passenger yields and increases in non-aeronautical revenues.
work and whole life operation and maintenance services for Balfour Beatty.
Directors valuation of PPP concessions In February 2010 we were appointed preferred bidder for the 250m Using a single discount rate of 8% nominal post-shareholder tax, PPP Coventry street lighting contract.
the Directors valuation of the Groups PPP portfolio was 610m as at 31 December 2009 2008: 556m.
US A full explanation of the PPP valuation is on pages 67 to 69.
Balfour Beatty is responsible for the development, construction, renovation, operation and management of military accommodation for the US Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
Underlying Outlook performance at the existing concessions, covering family housing at 44 The long-term nature of our infrastructure investments provides strong military bases and one unaccompanied personnel project, was good.
A lack of liquidity in financial markets resulted in a reduction in new There is a healthy pipeline of UK projects, particularly in the education transactions during the year.
However, early in 2010, the Fort Bliss sector, to be bid in 2010. military housing privatisation project received an additional US$48m There are further business development opportunities within the US in funding from the Army for an expansion phase covering the military accommodation PPP market, primarily with the US Air Force, development and new construction of an additional 202 town homes.
and management is also focusing on taking that core PPP expertise Balfour Beatty will oversee the design, construction, and overall into new markets in the US such as renewable energy, education and management, maintenance and operational responsibilities for the new social infrastructure hospitals, courthouses and student housing.
housing units, which are expected to be completed in 2012.
Expansion Given the uncertainty from the renewal of Barking Powers contracts, at Fort Bliss, and potentially other Army bases, is being driven both by a modest decline in Balfour Beatty Communities contracted fees in the base realignment and closure BRAC legislation and the Grow The 2010 and increased bid costs, we anticipate 2010 being significantly Army GTA initiative.
