42 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Professional Construction Support Infrastructure services services services investments Construction services There was a particularly strong performance, both in the UK and especially in the US.
There were a number of good contract wins in the UK education sector and in Hong Kong.
The acquisitions of RT Dooley and SpawMaxwell boosted our US capabilities.
How we performed Revenue Building Strong performance in Strong pipeline of US building opportunities in Construction management 7,491 m UK education Good performance in UK 2008: 7,095m Refurbishment and fit-out building, particularly in Maintaining progress Order book Mechanical and education sector and delivery on major electrical services UK road schemes High levels of activity 8.2bn Civil engineering 2008: 9.5bn in UK roads, including Opportunities in UK M25 widening waste, power and law Profit Ground engineering and order markets Acquisitions of RT Dooley, Rail engineering 207m SpawMaxwell and Strata Federal projects in the US 2008: 167m Construction Potential infill acquisitions Geographical split Good year in Hong Kong in the US with record order book RoW Stimulus-related 1,197m Steady performance in expenditure in US civil UK the Middle East infrastructure 3,898m US 2,396m Reduced volumes in UK Opportunities to provide and German rail markets integrated services, Revenue combining construction Including 673m share of joint ventures and and professional associates 2008: 702m.
Profit from operations before 16m exceptional services capabilities charges 2008: 6m and 20m amortisation of intangible assets 2008: 15m.
Our business To Cumbernauld and Falkirk A82 A80 Annual report and accounts 2009 43 Glasgow M80 To Stirling Clyde M8 Tunnel M8 M8 Kingston M8 Bridge Baillieston A8 Interchange River Clyde Kingston Junction M73 Fullarton Road Junction Polmadie Road M74 M77 Junction Cambuslang Road M74 Junction M74 Completion route South Lanarkshire M74 The new 8km stretch of M74 is making good progress, as part of a substantial infrastructure investment in Scotlands transport network.
The scheme is designed to improve journey times and reduce traffic congestion on roads across Glasgow and South Lanarkshire.
The new section of the motorway plays a key role in the transport plan for Scotlands delivery of the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow in 2014.
The strategy The marketplace Construction is a local business and knowledge of the local supply chain In the UK, Balfour Beatty serves a range of markets.
While the general labour and materials is critical.
election in 2010 creates uncertainty over future Government spending plans, the size and quality of the order book enables the Group to One of Balfour Beattys main differentiators is the depth and breadth position itself for customers future priorities.
of its expertise, gained from operating in the UK, mainland Europe, the US, Middle East and Far East, combined with its local knowledge The education sector, for instance, continues to offer the Group a range in each market.
Balfour Beatty works in partnership with customers who value the In the US, while current operational performance is strong, the highest levels of quality, safety and technical expertise.
economic downturn has resulted in competitive pressures and a reduced order book.
However, as the market recovers, Balfour Beatty In the UK, the Group has added to its presence in UK regional is well-positioned in the regional building markets in which it operates.
construction markets where it had previously had little coverage, The acquisitions of RT Dooley and SpawMaxwell have enhanced the through a series of acquisitions.
There are opportunities in the Federal In the US, Balfour Beatty has expanded its presence in new geographic market and there is potential for stimulus-related spend in sectors such markets and will continue to pursue infill acquisitions.
The business as highways and bridges, rail, water and wastewater infrastructure.
currently operates widely across the US with significant operations in In South-East Asia, Balfour Beatty has a leading market position and is Washington, the Carolinas, Florida, Texas and California.
well-positioned to capitalise on the strong growth in infrastructure in The combination of professional services skills and project delivery Hong Kong and the high-quality work secured recently.
capabilities should enable the Group to access attractive, high-value, Market conditions are challenging in Dubai but in the longer term there complex projects.
is a demand for new infrastructure.
The market in Abu Dhabi remains In the rail sector, the integration of PB will allow the Group to enter the positive, with further opportunities in Qatar and Oman.
full turnkey market as its capabilities now include systems integration.
In Europe, and in other selected international markets, Balfour Beattys In all its markets, Balfour Beatty has the track record and capability to leading position as a fixed rail infrastructure contractor continues to position itself for expenditure by public, regulated and private sector provide a range of opportunities for the Group.
customers and the Group has taken a series of actions to recognise and anticipate future trends.
The Group's exposure to end markets and to different geographies provides a diverse business model in this segment.
44 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Construction services Financial performance Operational performance Construction services had a particularly strong year with good UK building performances from the building businesses, especially in the US.
Completed projects in the year included work on the Knowsley Building Schools for the Future BSF scheme in Merseyside and a new diagnostic Profit from operations, before exceptional items and amortisation, and treatment centre in Pontefract, as part of the Pinderfields and rose by 24% to 207m 2008: 167m, or 14% at constant currency.
There was a good overall performance in UK building, in a difficult In the commercial sector, work was completed on developments in market, with good contract wins in the education sector, partially offset Tudor Street and Gresse Street in London.
While the commercial sector by a reduced volume of work in the regional building business.
is currently very quiet, there are some first signs of recovery and there There were also strong performances in the UK major and regional civil will be opportunities for the Group when this market picks up again.
engineering businesses, with good progress on a number of major road Good progress was made on the Eastern Campus Development projects including the M25.
This strong performance was partially offset Programme at Heathrow Airport for BAA and on the major 550m by a reduction in the Groups smaller ground engineering business.
The Groups businesses have reacted quickly to reduce costs where In Scotland, good progress was made on the Royal Museum in volumes have reduced.
In addition, we will continue to seek broader Edinburgh, the Ravenscraig regional sports facility and on the Victoria procurement and cost savings through our operating companies Hospital in Fife, which is due to be completed in 2011. working together more closely.
Early in 2010, Network Rail selected Balfour Beatty to undertake major Balfour Beatty Construction in the US performed strongly in 2009 and improvement work at Edinburghs Waverley Station.
The 50m contract while the business has been working through the order book, there will be completed in 2013. were encouraging contract wins in Texas, Georgia and the Carolinas at the end of the year.
New contract wins were particularly strong in the education sector in 2009.
Performance in US infrastructure was steady.
Awards included the 77m contract to build new student accommodation There was a strong performance in Hong Kong, with a number of at the University of Exeter and the appointment as a design and build contract wins resulting in Gammons order book increasing 10% partner for Stoke-on-Trent City Councils 250m BSF programme.
The acquisition of PB gives us further exposure to Asia, as well as Australia.
Balfour Beatty is the construction partner in a number of BSF schemes in Hackney, Haringey and Greenwich with a total value of over 220m In the Middle East, performance was steady.
The market for new and is framework contractor providing construction services to both construction work in Dubai remains difficult, while payments for the 180m scheme for Manchester City Council and the 100m scheme completed building work remain slow.
The Group continued to win in Liverpool.
building services work elsewhere across the region.
As part of the National Academies Framework, Balfour Beatty was The rail businesses, which operate in the UK, continental Europe appointed by Lincolnshire County Council for three design and build and other selected international markets, were affected by reduced contracts totalling 57m.
This followed its appointment as preferred volumes in the UK and Germany at the beginning of the year.
After a bidder for the 120m West Sussex National Academies Framework slow start, the order book position in Germany and Sweden improved and contract awards on academies in Sunderland, Southwark and by the end of 2009.
The order book in Construction services reduced by 14% to 8.2bn Early in 2010, financial close was achieved on the 450m Blackburn during the period, an 8% reduction at constant currency.
with Darwen and Bolton Councils BSF programme.
The project involves the delivery of a major capital investment programme over a number of phases see case study on page 32.
Bidding for more BSF schemes and National Academies Frameworks will continue in 2010.
Trent River Bridge The Trent River Bridge replacement in New Bern, North Carolina is scheduled for completion in 2010.
The work is being undertaken in an  area where two rivers meet and involved the demolition of a 1954 swing bridge.
South Lodge At the senior living care home facility at South Lodge in the Midlands, 99 high-quality apartments and suites are under construction.
The market for new residential assisted living facilities in the UK is increasing, reflecting increased life expectancy.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 45 Parkland Hospital Artists impression of the new 1.9m sq ft Parkland Replacement Hospital, for which Balfour Beatty won a construction services contract during the year.
On completion in 2014, it will be the largest hospital building in Dallas, Texas, replacing the existing 55-year-old hospital.
Volumes were down in the regional building market.
In response to In January 2010, further roads projects were secured on the A11 these market conditions, there was success in securing additional Fiveways to Thetford Improvement ECI contract and the A487 positions on construction frameworks including Devon County Porthmadog, Minffordd and Tremadog Bypass.
Councils Construction Framework South West and the Olympic In February 2010, Balfour Beatty was one of four delivery partners to Delivery Authoritys general builder framework.
be appointed to the Highways Agencys 2bn managed motorways There continue to be opportunities in the student accommodation, framework contract.
affordable housing and senior living sectors.
The Northern Ticket Hall at Kings Cross was handed over on time, as was the extension and upgrade of the East London Line.
UK building services Further work was secured on the reconstruction of Blackfriars Balfour Beatty Engineering Services was formed during the year to station in London see case study on page 22. combine the skills and resources of Balfour Beatty companies already operating in this market Balfour Kilpatrick and Haden Young and to Also in London, good progress was made on a roads and bridges match the needs of customers across the UK.
contract at the Olympics site.
It is involved in the internal environment of buildings: designing, The regional civils market is holding up well, in spite of economic supplying and installing mechanical and electrical engineering services.
conditions, and good progress was made on a range of projects including the Forth Bridge and the construction of two new platforms Good progress was made on a range of projects during the year at Glasgow Central station.
including the Aquatics Centre in London, hospital schemes at Birmingham and Fife, education schemes including Southwark and Volumes were down in ground engineering, in line with the rest of the Islington, and on the A3 Hindhead and A1 M Hatfield tunnels.
market, with very little work in the private sector.
Foundation work for The Shard in London, which will be Europes tallest mixed-use building, Work for London Underground and EDF Energy in the power market was completed during the year.
Nuclear is an important potential market for the Group.
In addition Successful delivery, ahead of schedule, on the Whitelee wind farm to current work at Sellafield, Balfour Beatty is positioning itself for project, Europes largest onshore wind farm in Scotland, led to work the new build programme in the UK, which could start in 2012 13. being secured at the Arecleogh wind farm for ScottishPower Balfour Beatty is partnering with AREVA, a world leader in nuclear Renewables.
power, to ensure effective delivery of a fleet of future EPR nuclear Although market conditions are challenging, Balfour Beatty is reactors EPRs.
well-positioned as a market-leading business in this sector.
There are Balfour Beatty has also formed a joint venture with VINCI Construction good opportunities in the health, education, power systems and power to help deliver project management, construction and civil engineering project markets, including nuclear and oil and gas.
infrastructure for the EPR programme in the UK, both within the UK civil infrastructure AREVA partnership and to bid for EPR sites for utilities adopting There were high levels of activity in the roads sector.
alternative procurement models, including EDF.
Work started on the substantial M25 scheme in May 2009, which will Balfour Beatty will be bidding for a range of contracts as part of the add 40 lane miles of additional capacity to the M25 see case study on Crossrail project, the new rail route planned through London.
Balfour Beatty is part of the Forthspan joint venture bidding for the Good progress was also made on the M74, where the Interlink joint Forth Replacement Crossing, the UKs most significant new bridge venture is designing and constructing an 8km extension to the in 20 years.
motorway in Glasgow: on the A421 project in Bedfordshire and the US construction A46 Newark to Widmerpool contract.
Good progress was made on current contracts including the Walter Excellent progress was made on the A3 bottleneck alleviation scheme Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland and the US$253m at Hindhead and the Devils Punchbowl.
expansion of the Peabody Orlando hotel in Florida.
In November, the New wins in the year included the design and construction of an Ritz-Carlton Charlotte was completed successfully, designed to achieve 8.25km two-way single carriageway, as part of the Carlisle Northern LEED Gold certification as defined by the US Green Building Council.
Development Route PPP scheme, and an Early Contractor Involvement ECI contract for the 127m Norwich Northern Distributor Road.
46 Annual report and accounts 2009 Our businesses Construction services Institute of Technical Education, Singapore The new ITE College West Campus in Singapore is scheduled to be completed for the first intake of students in 2010.
Major contract wins in the year included the Mecklenburg County Jail US infrastructure expansion project in Charlotte, North Carolina: a new, 1.9m sq ft Balfour Beatty operates in the roads, bridges, tunnels, water and hospital for the Parkland Health & Hospital System in Dallas and the wastewater markets in the US heavy civil engineering market.
new US$80m Perot Museum of Nature and Science in Dallas.
Good progress was made on a number of projects including the Work was also secured with the US Army Corps of Engineers including US$146m Dorchester Tunnel project in Boston for the Massachusetts pre-construction and construction services for the replacement hospital Water Authority: the construction of the new Trent River Bridge in at Fort Riley and contracts at Fort Jackson in South Carolina, Fort North Carolina: and the US$208m Vineyard Water Treatment Plant Benning in Georgia and Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas.
in Sacramento, where the water treatment capacity at the plant is being doubled.
Additional work included the US$325m contract to lead the design-build on the Omni Dallas Convention Center Hotel, a $60m In August, Balfour Beatty was selected, in joint venture, by the North design-build contract for the Hays County Government Complex and Texas Tollway Authority to work on a major design-build road project in general contracting services on the almost 1m sq ft Las Colinas the Dallas-Fort Worth region.
The contract for phase four of the State Entertainment Center located in Irving, Texas.
Highway 161 Tollway is expected to be around US$415m 252m.
Balfour Beatty's position in the US construction market through its Overall, the civil infrastructure market was extremely price-competitive regional divisions based in Texas, Florida, North Carolina, California during 2009 and the Group has taken the long-term decision not to and Washington D. C. was supplemented by two acquisitions during follow the market down in low bidding.
As a consequence, the order the year.
In February 2009, RT Dooley Construction, a family-owned construction However, there are indications that the infrastructure stimulus firm based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was acquired for approximately programme aimed at the areas in which Balfour Beatty operates US$40m.
RT Dooley specialises in corporate headquarters, corporate highways and bridge construction, water and wastewater interiors fit-out and mission critical work such as data centres and infrastructure will result in more project opportunities in the near call centres.
to medium term, vindicating the decision not to follow the market down during the year.
In November, SpawMaxwell Company, the largest interior construction contractor in Texas and the sixth largest general contractor in Houston, South-East Asia was acquired for up to US$25m.
The acquisition enhances Balfour Balfour Beatty operates in South-East Asia through Gammon Beattys position as a single source of construction capabilities in the Construction, in which the Group has a 50% interest.
Texas building markets and is in line with the strategy of expanding in Gammon is a leading contractor in Hong Kong and Singapore and selected geographic markets in the US.
operates in both the civil engineering and building markets.
As part of the re-organisation of the Groups businesses in the US Good progress was made on the construction of the new Central following the acquisition of PB, both Charter Builders based in Dallas Government Complex for Hong Kong known as the Tamar and Barnhart based in San Diego, which were previously managed Development Project see case study on page 24. by Heery, became part of Balfour Beatty's construction operations.
During the year, Gammon boosted its already strong order book with These acquisitions and additions to the US construction business a series of new and high-quality infrastructure and building contracts.
broaden the geographic coverage and range of services offered to customers.
The integration of these businesses is proceeding well.
In July, a contract in excess of HK$1.5bn 120m was awarded by Hysan Development Company Limited for the redevelopment of the Hennessy Balfour Beattys construction operation in the US now generates Centre in the Causeway Bay district of Hong Kong.
The 36-storey mixed in excess of US$3bn of revenue, providing pre-construction retail and office development is due for completion in 2011. and construction management, design-build and general contracting services.
The Hong Kong Government awarded Gammon a HK$3.76bn 300m contract for the construction of a sewage conveyance system, Looking forward, market conditions are difficult with some margin the largest single civil engineering contract it has ever won.
pressure and little pick-up in the private sector.
New work on the Centennial Campus contract from the University of Priorities for the business will be continuing to win Federal projects, Hong Kong, valued at HK$2bn 150m, followed in September 2009. working in conjunction with other Group businesses in the US to maximise synergies and opportunities to share knowledge, integrating Early in 2010, further contracts were secured for the HK$930m 74m the new capabilities into the business and pursuing infill acquisitions redevelopment of the Victoria Park swimming pool complex, a in new geographies.
HK$1.34bn 106m contract to construct Kennedy Town Station and overrun tunnels for MTR Corporation and a HK$2.4bn 195m contract for the widening of the Tolo and Fanling highways.
Gammon also had a good year in Singapore, though market conditions are expected to be slightly more challenging looking forward.
Gammon anticipates more major infrastructure bids in Hong Kong in 2010, particularly for mass transit and highway projects.
Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 47 Middle East In Scandinavia, Balfour Beatty boosted its order book to record levels Balfour Beatty operates primarily in Dubai as a building and civil when the Swedish rail administration, Banverket, awarded it a 82m engineering contractor and as a mechanical and electrical engineering railway maintenance contract for 1,270km in the Vstra Gtaland region.
M&E contractor in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
In Spain, good progress was made on several high-speed line projects The Burj Mall in Dubai, the worlds biggest shopping centre, opened and on the Madrid-Levante line.
Balfour Beatty is part of the Transtec Gotthard consortium for the 1bn In Abu Dhabi, Balfour Beatty was responsible for internal and external rail systems installation contract for the 57km Gotthard Base Tunnel in mechanical and electrical services on the Yas Marina Hotel, which Switzerland, which will be the longest railway tunnel in the world when consists of two towers built over the Yas Marina Formula One race it opens for commercial services in 2017.
The project continues to track.
The project was completed in November 2009 in time for the progress satisfactorily with detailed design and mobilisation taking Grand Prix.
Work on the Al Raha Beach hotel in Abu Dhabi is place during the year.
progressing well and there was a strong order book for the M&E Balfour Beatty operations in the US rail market are focused on rail business at the end of the year.
Good progress was made on current Balfour Beatty has been operating in the Middle East for 30 years projects in Denver and Los Angeles.
Balfour Beatty is currently bidding and continues to take a prudent, long-term view of future prospects for a major light rail project in Denver and there is potentially a strong with Qatar and Oman also offering a potentially broader range pipeline of opportunities, as a result of stimulus expenditure and of opportunities.
working in combination with PB, which has particular expertise in this market.
Additional opportunities to provide an integrated approach for customers, working in combination with PB, are being explored.
In Malaysia, Balfour Beatty secured a major contract for the rail electrification and power supply systems package for the Ipoh to Rail Padang Besar double tracking rail extension.
Balfour Beatty is the worlds leading multi-disciplinary fixed rail In China, Balfour Beatty won a 64m electrification contract for the infrastructure contractor.
 railway for the Ministry of Railways It has long-term relationships and major current projects for Network of China, which is due for completion in the summer of 2010.
The joint Rail, London Underground, the Olympic Delivery Authority, Deutsche venture established in China to manufacture catenary components is Bahn, AlpTransit, RFI Italian State Railway, Banverket Swedish growing rapidly.
State Railway, the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation In Chile, a 50m contract for two line extensions on the Santiago Metro Authority, the Ministry of Rail in China, numerous municipalities and continues to make good progress.
It is hoped that work will be secured many other network owners.
In the UK, good progress was made on the 363m extension and Balfour Beatty continues to work on smaller projects in Australia and upgrade of the East London Line where Balfour Beatty Rail is working New Zealand.
The project was successfully handed over to Transport for London on time in January 2010.
Outlook Good progress was made on the 60m contract on the AirdrieBathgate line, which forms part of the Edinburgh-Glasgow link.
While current economic conditions create uncertainty in some of our construction services markets, the Groups broad range of customers Volumes were down in the switches and crossings manufacturing and geographies provides resilience.
business, due to a significant drop in demand from Network Rail, and the business will be looking to export to overseas markets.
Signalling Although we expect civil infrastructure to strengthen, this will be offset Solutions, the joint venture with Alstom, performed satisfactorily.
by reductions in our building business, so that overall a similar overall level of performance is anticipated in 2010.
Balfour Beatty Rail and its recently-acquired track business, Schreck-Mieves, secured several multi-disciplinary contracts in A series of actions have been taken to position the business for Germany.
Balfour Beatty continued to develop its market position future opportunities.
In the medium term, there are opportunities in the UK in the waste, In Italy, Balfour Beatty continued its work on the major high-speed power and law and order markets, as well as in rail electrification.
rail link programme to connect all the main cities, including the Looking further ahead, the nuclear new-build programme in the electrification of the link from Turin to Milan and Bologna to Florence, UK and an upturn in the commercial developer market provide which began operations in December 2009.
The business is further opportunities.
well-positioned to win further work.
In the US, there are opportunities in the Federal building market and Work on the Metro Line C in Rome, one of the largest infrastructure for greater stimulus spending in US civil infrastructure markets.
schemes for public transport in Italy, and the trolleybus scheme in The infrastructure market in Hong Kong is especially strong, while Pescara both made good progress.
other markets and geographies such as Italian high-speed rail and power and rail in the Middle East provide opportunities for growth.
Italian Rail In Italy, Balfour Beatty continued its work on the major high-speed rail link programme to connect all the main cities, including the electrification of the link from Turin to Milan and Bologna to Florence, which began operations in December 2009.
