CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 OCCUPANCY AND TENANCY CHANGES continued The Groups occupancy has recovered from approximately 94 per cent at 31 December 2008 to approximately 98 per cent at 31 December 2009, significantly outperforming the UK large centres market average.
NET RENTAL INCOME Despite the adverse environment, the Groups like-for-like net rental income only declined by 1.8 per cent following a 4.3 per cent reduction in 2008.
At the gross level, the Groups like-for-like rental income fell by 2.4% per cent compared to 2008 due to the tenant failures discussed above, but other income held up well in the challenging economic environment such that gross rental income increased by 1.6 per cent.
As the retail environment stabilised throughout the year, lease incentive write-offs reduced driving a significant year-on-year favourable variance.
OTHER OPERATING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Footfall across the Groups existing centres rose 2.4 per cent in the year, outperforming the estimated overall reduction across the UK according to Experian & Synovate.
Like-for-like retailer sales are estimated to have decreased marginally but to have outperformed UK national data Office for National Statistics non-food down two per cent.
Weighted average lease maturity increased marginally to six years and nine months.
The next major round of lease expiries is at the MetroCentre in 2011 which management have been addressing proactively.
DEVELOPMENTS AND ACTIVE MANAGEMENT PROJECTS St Davids, Cardiff, a 50:50 joint venture with Land Securities, had a highly successful opening of the major extension in October: 1.3 million shoppers visited the centre in the first week after launch with a number of retailers reporting strong sales, many setting UK opening records.
Ongoing feedback from retailers indicates that a number of shops are now trading at comparable levels with their strongest performing stores across the UK.
ft. 154 unit extension, now 74 per cent let by area, 71 per cent by income, has transformed the city centre and elevated Cardiff to number six in Experians ranking of UK retail centres.
90 shops are now open, including 58 retailers new to Wales and the largest John Lewis store outside London.
Now that the quality of the centre is evident to retailers and critical mass has been achieved, we anticipate firmer terms for letting the remainder of the space.
The first two phases of MetroCentre, Gatesheads leisure and catering upgrade opened during 2009 with the cinema and eight of the ten restaurants now either open or committed.
The final phase of a further 56,000 sq.
ft. of retail space, fully let, will open in Autumn 2010.
FUTURE INVESTMENT PLANS The Groups parent companys placing conducted in October 2009 enabled the Group to recommence investment plans that had been put on hold a year earlier.
Active management projects have been identified across most of the Groups centres, the majority of which is expected to be spent or committed by the end of 2012.
These organic projects are individually revenue enhancing, often to meet the needs of identified retailers and include reconfiguration and extension of the former Woolworths store at MetroCentre, Gateshead, to create a new Major Space User MSU, unit amalgamations for new MSUs and roof boxes at Lakeside, Thurrock, enhanced catering offering at Braehead, Glasgow from former leisure facilities and reconfiguration at Victoria Centre, Nottingham to create further retail 3
