CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 KEY ACHIEVEMENTS Notwithstanding market conditions, the Group succeeded in avoiding disposals of core assets at depressed prices.
The principal achievements of the year were as follows: Occupancy levels at the Groups centres re-established to approximately 98 per cent after falling substantially below this figure during the year as a result of tenant failures.
ft. major St Davids Cardiff extension opened successfully in October, now 71 per cent committed by income, 74 per cent by area.
Since the year end there has been a 525 million refinancing of Lakeside, Thurrock in January 2010 ahead of the CMBS maturity in mid 2011.
The Groups next asset specific debt maturity is not until the second half of 2014.
MARKET OVERVIEW The Groups focus is the top 50 million sq.
ft. of UK shopping centre locations, some four per cent of the UKs 1.3 billion sq.
ft. of retail space of which it owns 25 per cent by area, including 8 of the UKs top 30 shopping centres.
The UK recession, from the second quarter of 2008 to the end of 2009, and difficult credit market conditions which generated significant retailer failures inevitably affected all UK shopping centres.
However, the lowest falls and earliest recovery in occupancy have been in the larger prime centres such as those owned by the Group.
Here, a wide range of catering and leisure offerings plus a strong national and international tenant mix and robust footfall have reinforced the status of the destinations to retailers reviewing their store strategy.
These assets benefit from the significant barriers to entry imposed by the UKs restrictive planning environment.
The reduction in the supply pipeline of major retail developments in the UK as a consequence of economic conditions underpins the scarcity value, with the prospect of limited additional competition in the short and medium-term.
While online shopping is an important and growing medium, the vast majority of total UK sales are still achieved across the counter in stores.
We have seen the most successful retailers investing in both physical stores and transactional websites.
For example both John Lewis and River Island have opened flagship stores in the Groups centres in the last six months whilst also investing online.
Clearly customers enjoy the convenience of online shopping for some products but that does not preclude them from also visiting shopping centres where they have a wide range of retail and catering comparison.
INVESTMENT PROPERTY VALUATIONS After a dismal start to the year, the UK property investment market reached its trough mid way through 2009, and thereafter has strengthened as the improving financial background including low short-term interest rates and currency factors increased the attractiveness of prime UK property as an asset class.
The recovery was a welcome relief after the most torrid UK real estate price collapse in the living memory of any active market participant, with the IPD monthly allproperty capital index IPD at 30 June 2009 having fallen 44 per cent.
The eventual 2009 outcome was much better than 2008 with the IPD falling by 5.6 per cent in 2009 compared to 27.1 per cent in 2008.
The Groups regional shopping centres have lagged behind the market recovery in the second half of 2009, which in its initial stages has been generally focused on assets of smaller lot size.
Overall, the Group continues to out perform IPD since the downturn began in June 2007.
OCCUPANCY AND TENANCY CHANGES Failures amongst the Groups tenants peaked in the last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 five per cent and four per cent of the rent roll respectively and have subsequently slowed to around one per cent per quarter.
The Groups asset management team responded energetically to this excess supply, documenting a significant number of tenancy changes.
In achieving this outcome, the Group benefited from its scale as the UKs leading owner of largescale shopping centres and its retail-focused relationships.
