CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued Business Lost access to centres Impact on footfall Documented Business Recovery interruption or head office and tenant Plans in place income Security team training and procedure Adverse publicity in shopping centres Terrorist Insurance is in place Flu pandemic recovery plan documented People HR Staff Key staff Loss of key Succession planning: performance members of the evaluation: training and development: management Incentive reward team could impact adversely on the Groups success Development Time Planning Securing planning Policy of sustainable development and consent for regeneration of brownfield sites: developments Constructive dialogue with planning authorities.
Costs and Construction cost Returns reduced Approval process based on detailed letting risk overrun, low by increased project costs: occupancy levels costs or delay in Regular monitoring and forecasting of securing tenants project costs and rental income: Fixed cost contracts.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of share capital are set out in note 23.
There were no changes in issued share capital in the year.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the directors have reasonable expectation that the company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Attention is drawn to the Going Concern disclosure included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 18.
DIVIDENDS The directors do not recommend a final dividend for the year.
In 2008 a dividend of 22.55 pence per share was paid, this was subsequently repaid to Capital Shopping Centres PLC during 2009.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors promptly in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the company by its suppliers in the year ended 31 December 2009 and the amounts owed to its creditors as at 31 December 2009 was nil days 2008 nil days, as calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act.
