CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2009 The directors submit their annual report and the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Capital Shopping Centres PLC Group the Group specialises in the ownership, management and development of prime UK regional shopping centres.
It currently has interests in eight of the top 30 centres in the UK and is the market leader in its field.
The Group, incorporated in the UK, has always focused on retail assets of the highest quality.
The Groups prime regional centres aim to provide variety, diversity and volume of shops in a single location containing the most attractive flagship and department stores, offering the best services and providing a safe, stress-free and rewarding experience.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS The Groups results and financial position for the year ended 31 December 2009 are set out in full in the consolidated income statement, the Group and parent company statements of comprehensive income, the Group and parent company balance sheets, the Group and parent company statements of changes in equity, the Group and parent company statements of cash flows and the related notes.
The Groups loss before taxation was 324.7 million 2008 loss 1,551.1 million.
The Groups net assets attributable to equity shareholders were reduced from 279 million to 53 million, largely due to the property revaluation deficit in the year of 425 million.
Net debt increased by 17 million to 2,753 million at 31 December 2009.
FINANCIAL ECONOMIC BACKGROUND The UK economy has been through an extended recession lasting six quarters from the second quarter of 2008 until a nominal recovery in the last quarter of 2009.
The cumulative fall in GDP amounted to some six per cent, an exceptionally severe downturn for a developed Western economy.
The property industry as a cyclical sector employing leverage has been hard hit.
However, financial market conditions began to improve from March 2009 due to substantial monetary easing from the Government.
This drove a recovery in stock markets, improved liquidity in debt markets with spreads narrowing substantially and led to a recovery in the UK direct property investment market to an extent which could not have been anticipated 12 months ago.
By way of illustration, the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index actually increased year on year by eight per cent and recovered by 88 per cent from its low on 9 March 2009.
However, the index at 31 December 2009 still stood at 64 per cent below its peak in early 2007.
With UK Government borrowing as a percentage of GDP at a record peace time level, economic growth rates are likely to be restrained for some years as future Governments attempt to reduce the extent of the stimulus whether from public sector expenditure restraint or higher taxes.
As a business focused on retail property, we need to plan on the basis of a continued challenging economic background.
GROUPS STRATEGY The Groups strategy is to maintain a market leading position as an active owner, manager and developer of prime UK regional shopping centres.
The Group undertakes asset and centre management initiatives across its existing centres, combined with selective acquisitions and disposals, with the aim of delivering strong long-term returns for shareholders through income and capital growth.
The Group is committed to active tenant management and ongoing investment in its shopping centres with the aim of creating, through a mix of retail, catering and leisure facilities, a compelling choice for both retailers and the shopping public.
