Report of the Directors Statutory Information Activities of the Group Barratt Developments PLC the Company is the holding company of the Barratt Group of companies the Group.
The Groups principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, designing and constructing residential property developments and selling the homes it builds.
These core activities are supported by the Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, design and strategic land capabilities.
Results and dividends The loss from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2009 was 468.6m 2008: 86.4m profit.
No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2008: 12.23p.
No final dividend will be paid for the year ended 30 June 2009 2008: nil.
Enhanced Business Review The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives statement, Business review and Group Finance Directors review on pages 2 to 23 comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting the AGM will be held at the Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London EC2Y 5BL on 17 November 2009 at 2.30pm.
The notice convening the AGM will be set out in a separate letter to shareholders.
Directors and their shareholdings Each of the Directors listed on pages 24 and 25 held office as at 30 June 2009, with the exception of Mr D F Thomas who joined the Group Board as Group Finance Director on 21 July 2009 replacing Mr M A Pain and Miss T E Bamford who joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2009.
Mr C G Toner retired from the Board and as Chairman of the Company on 30 June 2008 and Mr M Pescod resigned from the Board on 31 December 2008.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown below: 30 June 2009 30 June 2008 Number of Number of Fully share Fully share Ordinary shares of 10p each paid options paid options Mr M S Clare 529,869 1,060,769 172,726 Mr S J Boyes 161,962 695,019 97,086 100,917 Mr C Fenton 101,273 594,102 34,461 Mr M A Pain 100,000 10,769 40,000 Mr R A Lawson 213,149 Mr R J Davies 10,000 10,000 Mr R MacEachrane 12,000 2,000 Mr M Pescod 10,000 10,000 Mr M E Rolfe 30,000 Mr W Shannon 5,034 5,034 Shareholding as at date of resignation.
No notification has been received of any change in the above interests during the period 30 June 2009 to 22 September 2009 inclusive.
Details of movements in the Directors interests in executive share options are shown in the Remuneration report on page 51.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Mr M S Clare and Mr S J Boyes will retire in consequence of the period since their last re-election at the AGM to be held on 17 November 2009 and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election at that meeting.
In addition, Mr D F Thomas and Miss T E Bamford will also retire at the AGM and offer themselves for election having been appointed by the Board since the last AGM.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the business of the Group.
In recognition of his loss of benefit under his previous employers long-term incentive and share option plans it was agreed with Mr D F Thomas that he would be granted an one-off award that seeks to target benefits equivalent to the options granted under the Barratt Developments 2008 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS in 2008.
In order to satisfy this obligation, Mr D F Thomas will be granted an option by the trustees of the Employee 26 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Statutory Information Benefit Trust which, if and when exercised, will be satisfied from ordinary shares acquired in the market.
The option will be over 666,666 ordinary shares at an exercise price per share of 55 pence.
The option will be subject to the same performance targets as the options granted under the ESOS in 2008 and will be on substantially the same terms and conditions as those options.
Property, plant and equipment The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings included within the Groups property, plant and equipment is in excess of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the affairs of the Group.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are not aware.
Each of the Directors has taken all the relevant steps that they ought to have taken in accordance with their duty as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Charitable and political contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 28,300 2008: 53,300.
Of the donations in the current year 5,800 was to LandAid and the remainder was to local and good causes.
No political contributions were made during the year 2008: nil.
Offices The Group had 25 offices excluding those offices undertaking an administrative function only located throughout Britain at the end of the financial year, following the closure of three offices and the merging of eight offices into four during the financial year.
A full list of the Groups offices and their locations can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company or from the Companys website www.
Capital structure Details on the structure of the Companys capital including rights and obligations attaching to shares, voting, and transfer of shares are shown on pages 40 and 41.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 28 to the financial statements.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29 to the financial statements.
Details of the rights attaching to shares held by the Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust are shown on page 42.
Details of the appointment, replacement and powers of Directors, and details of certain amendments to be proposed to the Articles of Association at the AGM are shown on pages 41 and 42.
Details of significant agreements containing provisions entitling counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company are shown on page 42.
Details of persons with a significant direct or indirect holding of shares in the Company are shown in the section on major shareholders on page 31.
Risk management objectives The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments are detailed in notes 23, 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in debt market prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the Group is liquidity risk and, accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management with the goal of ensuring that risks are promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken by the central treasury department.
These forecasts are further stress tested at a Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance, in particular by using financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest rates and currency rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 27 Report of the Directors | Statutory Information The Board approves treasury policies and certain day-to-day treasury activities have been delegated to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee, which in turn regularly reports to the Board.
The treasury department implements guidelines that are established by the Board and the Treasury Operating Committee.
a Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group actively maintains a mixture of long-term and medium-term committed facilities that are designed to ensure that the Group has sufficient available funds for operations.
The Groups borrowings are typically cyclical throughout the financial year and peak in April and May, and October and November, of each year, due to seasonal trends in income.
Accordingly the Group maintains sufficient headroom under its revolving credit facilities to cover these requirements.
On a normal operating basis the Group has a policy of maintaining headroom of 250.0m of available committed bank facilities and identifies and takes appropriate actions based upon its regular, detailed system for the reporting and forecasting of cash flows from its operations.
This represented 65.0% of available committed facilities at 30 June 2009 2008: 65.9%.
The Group was in compliance with its financial covenants at 30 June 2009.
At the date of approval of the financial statements the Groups internal forecasts indicate that it will remain in compliance with these covenants for the foreseeable future being at least twelve months from the date of signing the financial statements.
Compliance with covenants is also considered on pages 58 and 59.
The Groups objective is to minimise refinancing risk.
The Group therefore has a policy that the maturity of its committed facilities and private placement notes is at least two years on average with a target of three years.
At 30 June 2009, the average maturity of the Groups committed bank facilities was 3.1 years 2008: 3.3 years.
b Market risk price risk i UK housing market risk This section specifically discusses UK housing market risk in the context of the financial instruments in the Group balance sheet.
The Group is subject to the prevailing conditions of the UK economy and the Groups earnings are dependent upon the level of UK house prices.
UK house prices are determined by the UK economy and economic conditions including employment levels, interest rates, consumer confidence, mortgage availability and competitor pricing.
However, the Group does seek to maintain an appropriate geographic spread of operating divisions and an appropriate product mix to mitigate any risks caused by local economic conditions.
The Group has detailed procedures to manage significant operational risks including: A weekly review is undertaken of key trading indicators, including reservations, sales rates, visitor levels, levels of incentives, competitor activity and cash flow projections.
The Group seeks to provide mortgage providers with complete transparency regarding house purchase prices alongside any discounts or other incentives in order that they have appropriate information upon which to base their lending decision.
The Group works with key mortgage lenders to ensure that products are appropriate wherever possible for its customers.
The UK housing market affects the valuation of the Groups non-financial assets and liabilities the critical judgements applied by management in these financial statements, including the valuation of land and work in progress, goodwill and brands.
The value of the Groups available for sale financial assets is directly linked to the UK housing market.
At 30 June 2009, these were carried at a fair value of 86.5m 2008: 66.9m.
Sensitivity analysis At 30 June 2009, if UK house prices had been 5% lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups house price linked financial assets and liabilities, which are solely available for sale financial assets, would decrease in value, excluding the effects of tax, by 6.2m 2008: 14.9m with a corresponding reduction in both net profit and equity.
ii Interest rate risk The Group has both interest bearing assets and interest bearing liabilities.
Floating rate borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk and fixed rate borrowings expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group has a policy of maintaining both long-term fixed rate funding and medium-term floating rate funding so as to ensure that there is appropriate flexibility for the Groups operational requirements.
The Group has entered into swap arrangements to hedge cash flow risks relating to interest rate movements on a proportion of its debt and has entered into fixed rate debt in the form of Sterling and US Dollar denominated private placements.
28 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Statutory Information The Group has a policy that 6080% of the Groups median gross borrowings calculated on the latest three-year plan taking into account hedging is at a fixed rate, with an average minimum duration of five years and an average maximum duration of fifteen years.
At 30 June 2009, 68.4% of the Groups borrowings was at a fixed rate 2008: 61.6%.
The exposure of the Groups and Companys financial liabilities to interest rate risk is detailed in note 26 to the financial statements.
Floating interest rates on Sterling borrowings are linked to UK bank rate, LIBOR and money market rates.
The floating rates are fixed in advance for periods generally ranging from one to six months.
Short-term flexibility is achieved through the use of overdraft, committed and uncommitted bank facilities.
The weighted average interest rate for floating rate borrowings in 2009 was 6.6% 2008: 6.6%.
Sterling private placement notes of 114.2m 2008: 125.5m were arranged at fixed interest rates and exposed the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate Sterling private placement notes for 2009 was 11.5% 2008: 7.8% with, at 30 June 2009, a weighted average period of 8.5 years 2008: 9.5 years for which the rate is fixed.
US Dollar denominated private placement notes of 164.9m 2008: 150.5m were arranged at fixed interest rates and exposed the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The weighted average interest rate for fixed rate US Dollar denominated private placement notes, after the effect of foreign exchange rate swaps, for 2009 was 11.0% 2008: 6.9% with, at 30 June 2009, a weighted average period of 7.8 years 2008: 8.8 years for which the rate is fixed.
Sensitivity analysis In the year ended 30 June 2009, if UK interest rates had been 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups pre-tax loss profit would increase decrease by 3.9m 2008: 4.8m, the Groups post-tax loss profit would increase decrease by 2.8m 2008: 3.4m and the Groups equity would decrease increase by 2.8m 2008: 3.4m.
iii Foreign exchange rate risk As at 30 June 2009, the Group has fixed rate US Dollar denominated private placement notes of $271.6m 2008: $300.0m.
In order to mitigate risks associated with the movement in the foreign exchange rate, the Group has a policy of fully hedging the principal of its US Dollar denominated debt and a significant proportion of the interest payments.
The Group therefore entered into foreign exchange swap arrangements on the issue of its US Dollar denominated debt, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Accordingly the Group has no net exposure to foreign currency risk on the principal of its US Dollar denominated debt.
As a result of the revised financing arrangements implemented in July and August 2008, the foreign exchange swaps match 73% of the interest payments and therefore the Group is subject to foreign exchange rate risk upon the remaining 27%.
Details of the Groups foreign exchange swaps are provided in note 25 to the financial statements.
Sensitivity analysis In the year ended 30 June 2009, if the US Dollar per Pound Sterling exchange rate had been $0.20 higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups pre-tax loss profit would increase decrease by 0.7m 2008: nil, the Groups post-tax loss profit would increase decrease by 0.5m 2008: nil and the Groups equity would decrease increase by 0.5m 2008: nil.
c Credit risk In the majority of cases, the Group receives cash upon legal completion for private sales and receives advance stage payments from Registered Social Landlords for Social Housing.
The Group has 86.5m 2008: 66.9m of available for sale financial assets which expose it to credit risk, although this asset is spread over a large number of properties.
As such, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The Group manages credit risk in the following ways: The Group has a credit policy that is limited to financial institutions with high credit ratings as set by international credit rating agencies and has a policy determining the maximum permissible exposure to any single counterparty.
The Group only contracts derivative financial instruments with counterparties with which the Group has an International Swaps and Derivatives Association Master Agreement in place.
These agreements permit net settlement, thereby reducing the Groups credit exposure to individual counterparties.
The maximum exposure to any counterparty at 30 June 2009 was 31.0m 2008: 8.6m.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses, represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
As at 30 June 2009, the Company was exposed to 1,511.1m 2008: 2,230.1m of credit risk in relation to inter-company loans, financial guarantees, performance bonds and the bank borrowings of subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in notes 34 and 35 to the financial statements.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 29 Report of the Directors | Statutory Information d Capital risk management cash flow risk The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and meet its liabilities as they fall due whilst maintaining an appropriate capital structure.
The Group manages as capital its equity, as set out in note 30, and its bank borrowings being overdrafts, loan notes and bank loans, as set out in note 24.
The Groups risk management objectives are included on pages 18 and 19.
The Group ensures that there are appropriate controls over the purchase of land and levels of work in progress in the business in order to appropriately manage its capital these controls are discussed above.
In addition, the other methods by which the Group can manage its shortterm and long-term capital structure include adjusting the level of ordinary dividends paid to shareholders, assuming the Company is paying a dividend, issuing new share capital, arranging debt to meet liability payments and selling assets to reduce debt.
Likely future developments An indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the field of research and development is given in the Business review on pages 9 to 19.
Creditor payments The Group is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period by the Company of 42 days 2008: 26 days for its trade creditors at 30 June 2009.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions As at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions under Companies legislation are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company, Directors and former Directors of any member of the Group or of an associated company or affiliate company and members of the Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in their duties.
Investor relations The Board believes that the effective management of investor relations is critical to its relationship with its shareholders and to the market in which the Companys shares are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups corporate governance framework sets the context for its continuing investor relations programme particularly in respect of key areas such as board membership, remuneration and public accountability statements.
Following winning the IR Magazine award for most progress in investor relations by a non-FTSE 100 company, in June 2008, the Company continued to develop its investor communication programme in conjunction with its financial public relations PR advisers, Maitland, who took over from Weber Shandwick Square Mile in June 2008, and the Groups joint brokers, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment Bank.
co. uk provides a full Company profile, regular corporate news updates, access to the Companys share price, regulatory announcements and investor relations information.
Further, shareholder services have been established whereby shareholders may deal in the Companys shares via its website and also access the Companys share register to view their shareholding, with the opportunity to make changes to their account details, including the downloading of appropriate forms and also access the history of their shareholding.
The Groups annual and interim reports, together with interim management statements and half yearly trading updates, continue to be the primary means by which information about the Group, its Board and its business is communicated to institutional and private shareholders, investors and analysts.
In addition, other major Company publications are available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
The AGM is used to enable all shareholders to discuss the Groups operations and progress directly with the Board.
The Directors are available to answer shareholder questions, informally, before and after the AGM.
The Chairman also invites questions from shareholders during the AGM.
Information of a price sensitive nature is communicated as required by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary to the Company Announcements Office of the London Stock Exchange and the Group strives to ensure that all key information is effectively and clearly communicated.
In addition to the above formal communications, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts in order to convey an understanding of the Groups operations, the market and its management objectives, and in the year under review in excess of 100 such meetings were held.
The aim is to meet with major institutional shareholders at least once a year.
Press releases on the Groups activities are made to journalists and the media through the Group Press Office and its external PR advisers.
The Groups joint brokers, 30 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Statutory Information Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment Bank, also work actively on behalf of the Company in an effort to ensure that investors and potential investors in the business are given reliable information on the Groups operations, its values and ethos in order to make informed investment decisions.
The Group Finance Director presents regular reports to the Group Board on the Companys investor relations activities to ensure that it has a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Major shareholders All notifications received by the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys the FSA Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules the DTR are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and on a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 22 September 2009, the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR 5, of the following notifiable interests: Total Number of % of issued Date of Notification Name of Shareholder Voting Rights share capital 14 08 2009 Phoenix Asset Management Partners Limited 27,480,624 7.93 01 06 2009 Polaris Capital Management LLC 20,030,569 5.78 11 02 2009 Legal & General Group Plc 13,835,996 3.99 02 05 2007 FMR Corp 26,116,198 7.53 01 05 2007 Mr D Wilson 19,431,213 5.61 07 02 2007 J P Morgan Chase & Co. 18,784,735 7.71 Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Details of the shareholder authority for purchase by the Company of its own shares put in place at the AGM held on 18 November 2008, which remained valid at the end of the period under review, are set out in Additional Information for Shareholders under the heading Repurchase of shares on page 41.
No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this report.
A resolution renewing the authority will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 17 November 2009.
Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends The Trustees of the Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT have agreed to waive any right to all or any future dividend payments on shares held within the EBT except in certain limited circumstances none of which are currently applicable.
Details of the shares so held are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Post-balance sheet event Changes to the Board Mr D F Thomas joined the Board as an Executive Director and Group Finance Director on 21 July 2009 replacing Mr M A Pain, who stepped down on the same date.
Miss T E Bamford joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2009.
In recognition of his loss of benefit under his previous employers long-term incentive and share option plans it was agreed with Mr D F Thomas that he would be granted an one-off award that seeks to target benefits equivalent to the options granted under the ESOS in 2008.
In order to satisfy this obligation, Mr D F Thomas will be granted an option by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust which, if and when exercised, will be satisfied from ordinary shares acquired in the market.
Proposed Placing and Rights Issue On 23 September 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with UBS Limited, Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and RBS Hoare Govett Limited to fully underwrite a 720.5m equity issue, to be structured as a Placing and a Rights Issue.
The Group has also entered into amended financing arrangements which will come into effect upon successful completion of the Placing and Rights Issue.
Completion of the Placing and Rights Issue is conditional amongst other things upon shareholder approval at a General Meeting expected to be held on 19 October 2009.
On behalf of the Board L Dent, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 September 2009 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 31
