Report of the Directors Board of Directors 01 03 05 02 04 06 01 Mr R A Lawson 03 Mr M A Pain 05 Mr S J Boyes Chairman Group Finance Director to 21 July 2009 Group Board Executive Director Mr R A Lawson was appointed a NonMr M A Pain was appointed an Executive Mr S J Boyes joined the Group in 1978.
Executive Director on 1 June 2008 and Director on 1 March 2006 and assumed full Formerly the Managing Director of Barratt Chairman on 1 July 2008.
He is a member responsibility as Group Finance Director on York, he was appointed to the Group Board of the Remuneration and Nominations 1 July 2006.
He was formerly the Group in July 2001 and is the Group Board Committees.
Mr R A Lawson is also the Finance Director of Abbey National plc, Group Executive Director responsible for the Chairman of Hays Plc and a Director of The Sales Retail Director and Chief Executive of Barratt North Region.
He was Abbey National Treasury Services.
Mr M A formerly the Managing Director of the Vitec Pain is currently a Non-Executive Director of 06 Mr C Fenton Group for three years and Chief Executive of Punch Taverns plc, Johnston Press PLC and Group Board Executive Director Electrocomponents plc for ten years.
Mr M A Pain Mr C Fenton joined the Group in 1983, stepped down from the Board and as Group becoming Managing Director of Barratt West 02 Mr M S Clare Finance Director on 21 July 2009.
He was appointed to the Group Chief Executive Group Board in July 2003 and is the Group Mr M S Clare was appointed Group Chief 04 Mr D F Thomas Board Executive Director responsible for the Executive on 2 October 2006 and is a Group Finance Director from 21 July 2009 Barratt South Region.
member of the Nominations Committee.
Mr D F Thomas was appointed an Executive He was appointed as a Director of the BRE Director and Group Finance Director on 07 Mr R J Davies Trust in August 2009.
He was formerly the Group Senior Independent Director Executive Director of Centrica Plc and Finance Director and the Deputy Chief Mr R J Davies was appointed a NonManaging Director of Centricas British Gas Executive of The GAME Group plc.
Before Executive Director in May 2004 and is the Residential Energy operation.
He joined that he was the Group Finance Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee British Gas in 1994, becoming Centricas at Millennium and Copthorne Hotels plc and a member of the Audit and Nominations Finance Director in 1997 and Managing and held senior financial roles with Committees.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of British Gas Residential Energy House of Fraser plc and Forte plc.
Director of Northern Rock plc.
He was in 2002. previously Chairman of Biffa Plc, a NonExecutive Director of British Energy Group 24 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Board of Directors 07 09 11 08 10 12 Plc, the Chief Executive of Arriva plc and the Director of the National House-Building 11 Mr W Shannon chair of the Board of Governors of Sunderland Council NHBC Main Board before retiring Non-Executive Director University.
He was also the Chairman of the after 25 years service in April 2006.
He is Mr W Shannon was appointed a NonCBI Regional Council in the North East and a member of the Governing Board of the Executive Director on 1 September 2005 and a Non-Executive Director of Sunderland ARC NHBC Foundation, an independent charitable is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and urban regeneration company.
research foundation, which is a joint venture Nominations Committees.
He is currently with the Building Research Establishment Non-Executive Chairman of Aegon UK PLC, 08 Miss T E Bamford and a Director of the National Centre for a Non-Executive Director of Rank PLC and Non-Executive Director from 1 July 2009 Excellence in Housing.
of Johnson Service Group plc and a partner Miss T E Bamford was appointed a Nonwith Tri-Artisan Partners Europe LLP.
He Executive Director on 1 July 2009 and 10 Mr M E Rolfe was previously an Executive Director of is a member of the Remuneration and Non-Executive Director Whitbread PLC.
Miss T E Bamford Mr M E Rolfe was appointed a Non-Executive is a Director of Cantos Communications Director on 1 May 2008.
He is the Chairman 12 Mr L Dent Limited, the online communications service of the Audit Committee and is a member of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary provider, where she leads the corporate the Nominations Committee.
Mr M E Rolfe is Mr L Dent was appointed Group General client relationships and a Governor of the also a Non-Executive Director of The Sage Counsel and Company Secretary in January British Institute of Florence.
She was formerly Group plc and Hornby Plc and Chairman of 2001.
He is a solicitor and was previously a Director of J Henry Schroder & Co with Lane Clark & Peacock LLP.
He was formerly Group Deputy Chief Executive of Home whom her career spanned over 12 years the Finance Director of Gallaher Group Plc Group Limited, one of the largest housing in various roles.
for seven years until April 2007 when it was associations in the UK.
acquired by Japan Tobacco Inc. His career 09 Mr R MacEachrane with Gallaher spanned 20 years during which Non-Executive Director time he served in various finance and Mr R MacEachrane was appointed a executive roles.
Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2006 and is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
He was formerly the Commercial Director and an Executive Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25
