Report of the Directors Additional Information for Shareholders The following description summarises certain provisions of the Restrictions on voting current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution on No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class 18 November 2008 the Articles of Barratt Developments PLC the meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum Company and applicable English law concerning companies the then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions to vote if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined in of the Companies Acts or the Articles should be consulted if further the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information information is required.
Certain amendments to the Articles will be concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the proposed at the Annual General Meeting the AGM on 17 November Companies Acts.
2009, primarily to deal with the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive in the United Kingdom on 3 August 2009 via The Deadlines for voting rights Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 and the Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect implementation of the remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Details of these proposed changes will be set out exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by in the notice of the AGM and copies of the Companys current Articles, Corporate Representative.
Under the Companies Acts, the deadline together with copies marked up to show the proposed amendments, for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office from non-working days before the meeting for which the proxy is being the date of despatch.
The Articles however, provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board Share capital may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by Rights and obligations attaching to shares ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the financial by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their as it does not make specific provision as the Board as defined in the payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the payment of interim or fixed dividends on other shares.
At each AGM the Company normally puts in place annual shareholder authority authorising the Companys Directors to allot The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends unissued shares, in certain circumstances, for cash, in accordance or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committees.
person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles Voting after failure to provide the Company with information concerning Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, interests in those shares required to be provided under the every member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting or Companies Acts.
class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote or upon a poll, one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
In the case of joint holders Variation of rights of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint to any existing class of shares may be varied either with the written holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Under the the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting, the quorum than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided shall be two persons entitled to vote and holding or representing by that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, but may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general so that at any adjourned meeting one holder entitled to vote and meeting or class meetings as a Corporate Representative.
present in person or by proxy whatever the number of shares held by 40 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors | Additional Information for Shareholders him shall be a quorum.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any 10 pence and the maximum price payable is an amount equal to the shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights higher of: i 105% of the average of the closing middle market attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is contracted to be Transfer of shares purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply to any uncertificated shares to the extent that such provisions are Amendment of Articles of Association inconsistent with the holding of shares in uncertificated form or with the Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in transfer of shares by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances special resolution.
set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the Appointment and replacement of Directors number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of their the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or shareholders but is not taken into account in determining the Directors in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of who are to retire at that meeting dependent on length of their service transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the and the period since their last re-election.
The Board may from time to case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
The transferor of a share is time appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into office for such period subject to the Companies Acts and on such the register.
terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Directors are no longer subject to a maximum age limit.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully At every AGM of the Company, any Directors who held office at the paid share.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a time of the two preceding AGMs and did not retire at either of them, certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped shall retire in consequence of the period since their last re-election.
Any or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be Director who has held office for a continuous period of nine years or exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share more shall also retire.
The Company may by special resolution remove certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
Board resolves to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health: certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in iv he is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his office as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board ceases to be Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or viii he is to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Repurchase of shares Conflicts of interest requiring Board authorisation Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may The Board may authorise any matter which would otherwise involve a purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any Director breaching his duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of with the Companys interests.
The Director to whom the conflict of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued interest relates, and any other Director with a similar interest, shall not share capital.
The Company currently has authority to buy back up to count towards the quorum nor vote on any resolution giving the an aggregate of 34,671,802 ordinary shares during the period up to the authority.
Should the other members of the Board decide, the relevant next AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is Director or any other Director with a similar interest, may be excluded Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 41 Report of the Directors | Additional Information for Shareholders from any Board meeting while the conflict is under consideration.
The Significant agreements Board may impose terms and conditions on the authorisation as it The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the deems necessary to deal with the conflict and it may revoke or vary counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a any authorisation at any time.
The Board intends to report annually change of control of the Company: on the Companys procedures for ensuring that its powers of under the 2,150.0m credit facilities agreement dated 5 February 2007 authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the as amended, the 400.0m revolving credit facility agreement dated procedures have been followed.
9 July 2008 as amended and the 400.0m revolving credit facility agreement dated 2 February 2005 as amended in each case Powers of the Directors between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who must, upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of the may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding credits, management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the together with accrued interest and any other amounts payable in Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to under the privately-placed notes originally amounting in aggregate any third party.
to 20.0m the 20m Notes issued pursuant to a note purchase agreement dated 29 August 2007 to various institutions within a Indemnity of Directors single corporate group, the holders of the 20m Notes have an To the extent permitted by the Companies Acts, the Company may option to require the Company to repay the entire unpaid principal indemnify any Director of the Company or of any associated company amount of the 20m Notes held by each holder at par, together against any liability and may purchase and maintain for any Director with interest accrued thereon and a make-whole amount in respect of the Company or of any associated company insurance against any of any repayment occurring during an interest period: and liability.
No Director of the Company or of any associated company under the privately-placed notes originally amounting in aggregate to shall be accountable to the Company or the members for any benefit 105.0m and $300.0m the Remaining Notes issued pursuant to provided pursuant to the Articles of the Company and receipt of any note purchase agreements dated 23 August 2007 and 23 April 2008 such benefit shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming by the Company to various institutions, the holders of the Remaining a Director of the Company.
Notes have an option to require the Company to repay the entire unpaid principal amount of the Remaining Notes held by each holder Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust at par, together with interest accrued thereon but without any The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds make-whole amount in respect of any repayment occurring during ordinary shares in the Company.
The shares are held in the EBT for an interest period.
the purpose of satisfying options and awards that have been granted under the various employee share schemes operated by the Company.
Under the terms of the note purchase agreements in respect of the The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend 20m Notes and the Remaining Notes, a change of control occurs if payments on shares held within the EBT and these shares do not any person or group of persons acting in concert acquires beneficial count in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the used to calculate earnings per share until such time as they are vested Company carrying voting rights.
The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes other than in held in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into compliance with applicable securities laws.
account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
On behalf of the Board L Dent, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 23 September 2009 42 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
