The Board Robin Broadhurst C. B. E. F. R. I. C. S. Chairman, chairman of nomination committee.
Aged 63 Appointed director of the company in February 2004.
Previously European chairman of Jones Lang La Salle he is now Trustee and non-executive director of Grosvenor, a senior advisor to Photograph Credit Suisse Group, property consultant to Sir Robert McAlpine Limited, member of the Prince s Council for the Duchy of Cornwall and non-executive director of the British Library and Invista Real Estate Investment Management plc.
Aged 53, Chartered Accountant Joined Deloitte Haskins and Sells in London in 1978 and worked in their Nairobi and Bristol offices before being made a partner in their Newcastle office in 1989.
Appointed a director Photograph of the company in December 1996.
Appointed deputy chief executive in December 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in October 2009.
From May 2007 until September 2009, he was a non-executive director of The Local Shopping REIT plc.
Member of nomination and remuneration committees.
Aged 66 Appointed a director of the company in March 2002.
Deputy Photograph chairman of Lloyd s 1993-1995.
Chairman of audit committee and member of remuneration committee.
Aged 61, Chartered Accountant Appointed a director of the company in 2002.
Non-executive director of Northern Photograph Investors Company plc, American Appraisal Associates LLP and LMS Capital plc.
Chairman of Westover Medical Limited.
Until December 2001 was a senior partner at .
Henry Pitman Member of audit committee.
Aged 47 Appointed a director in May 2007.
Currently chairman of African Century, an African Photograph investment business.
Previously chief executive of Tribal Group plc.
Prior to this, he was managing director of JHP Group Limited.
From 1990-1995 he worked for the Property Corporation of South Africa.
Bill Tudor John Senior independent director, chairman of remuneration committee, member of nomination committee.
Aged 65 Appointed a director of the company in February 2005.
Currently a senior adviser to Photograph Nomura International, previously a partner at Allen & Overy LLP for 29 years, serving as senior partner for six years.
Also deputy chairman of the Nationwide Building Society and deputy chairman of the Bank of England Financial Markets Law Committee.
An Associate Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge.
Baroness Margaret Ford Member of audit committee.
Aged 52 Appointed a director of the company in July 2008.
Managing director in the Royal Bank of Canada s Capital Markets Group and is the Chair of Legacy Committee of the London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Limited.
Photograph Prior to this she was chairman, from 2002, of English Partnerships.
Early career in a variety of housing and regeneration roles across the public and private sector.
