We took signifi cant action in the second half of 2008 and fi first half of 2009 to address the cost base of the business.
These cost reduction initiatives related primarily to headcount reduction, as well as the tight control of all discretionary spending.
These actions contributed approximately 25.0 million of savings in 2009 and the incremental benefi t of these savings is expected to be approximately 5.0 million in 2010. Dividend A fi final dividend of 5.3p has been recommended by the Board 2008: 5.3p leaving the dividend for the full year unchanged at 7.6p.
Board and Employees In January 2010 it was announced that Andrew Wood will be retiring as Group Finance Director with eff ect from 29 April 2010.
Andrew will be succeeded by Mark Hoad, currently Group Financial Controller.
We welcome Mark to the Board and thank Andrew for his invaluable contribution to BBA Aviation over the last nine years.
Andrew played a critical role in the evolution of the business from a broadly based conglomerate to a focused global aviation support and aftermarket services provider.
We wish Andrew all the best for the future.
It was also announced that John Roques will retire as a non-executive director on 29 April 2010, having served as a member of the Board since 1999.
John will be succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Nick Land and as Chairman of the Nomination Committee by me.
I wish to thank John for his considerable contribution, in particular for his signifi cant input as the previous Chairman of the Audit Committee.
BBA Aviations achievements this year are evidence of the unstinting eff orts of our dedicated employees in continuing to build long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders and I am grateful to them for their contribution.
Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility is fundamental to BBA Aviations vision, mission and values and we strive to manage our impact on, and contribute positively to, society and the environment through the operation of our companies and the conduct of our personnel.
Safety is a priority for BBA Aviation and we have continued to make improvements that have resulted in the Group-wide Recordable Incident Rate for 2009 being at its lowest rate since we started to compile statistics in 2002 and a 15% improvement over 2008.
In 2009 we continued our work to embed our mission, values and behaviours at all levels of the organisation, which is changing how people think and act throughout BBA Aviation.
We believe this is a key business diff erentiator and fundamental to delivering sustainable value creation for all stakeholders in the future.
Outlook There were preliminary indications in the last quarter of 2009 that we are through the worst of the downturn in business and general aviation fl ying hours, as Signature returned to modest organic volume growth.
This has continued in the fi first few weeks of 2010, although the nature and profi le of the recovery remains unclear.
Our Flight Support businesses will be the fi first to benefi t from any sustained recovery in fl ight activity, but the improvement in our later-cycle Aftermarket businesses will take longer to be realised.
We will continue to control our cost base, drive operational improvement and focus on debt reduction and cash generation.
Management actions taken over the last two years have positioned the Group to benefi t from the cyclical upturn and we remain confi dent about the outlook, attractive secular growth prospects and consolidation opportunities in our major markets.
Michael Harper Chairman Directors Report 05
