Directors Report Going Concern 38 Corporate Social Responsibility The Group has $1,075 million of banking facilities of which $752 million was The principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed relate to 40 Board of Directors and Executive Management drawn across them at 31 December 2009.
These facilities are subject to crossthe number of hours of fl ying activity, principally in B&GA, but also to a lesser default.
Further details relating to these facilities are provided in note 16 to the extent in commercial and military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the 42 Financial Matters Consolidated Financial Statements on page 80.
The primary $900 million drivers of revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft movements in 44 Additional Disclosures facility does not expire until 2012.
The Groups banking facilities are subject to ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for components in Legacy 46 Directors Corporate two main fi financial covenants: maximum net debt to underlying EBITDA of 3.5 Support and APPH.
Further details of these risks and uncertainties are Governance Statement times and minimum net interest cover of 3.0 times.
In the primary $900 million provided on page 12.
52 Directors Remuneration facility the Group has the option, having made acquisitions of more than The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups 2010 Report $100 million in a given window, of increasing the net debt to EBITDA covenant budget and medium-term plans, with due regard for the risks and 6 60 0 G Going C oing Conc oncern and ern and to 4.25 times at the 31 December 2008 testing date and to 4.0 times at the uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, the uncertain economic climate S Stat tate ement of Dir ment of Dire ec ct to ors rs 30 June and 31 December 2009 dates respectively.
Due to the acquisition of and the impact that this could have on trading performance.
The key R Responsibilities esponsibilities Hawker Beechcraft in 2008 this option was invoked.
From 30 June 2010 the assumptions used in constructing the budget were that: F Financial stat inancial statements ements covenant will return to 3.5 times.
This acquisition spike is not incorporated in the $175 million facility.
In the event of a weakening of sterling against other Si gnature and ASIG will see a return to a modest level of growth in 2010, with 61 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA currencies, the Group has the ability to test the net debt to EBITDA covenant the later cycle ERO business not benefi ting from this growth for a further Aviation plc in respect of at average exchange rates.
The Directors expect the Group to comply with 6-9 months: the consolidated financial these covenants for the foreseeable future.
Details of the Groups fi financial risk Legacy Support continues to grow supported by new licences and its statements management policies are disclosed in note 17 to the Consolidated Financial exposure to the military sector: and 62 Consolidated income Statements on page 81.
A PPH is relatively stable with no further weakening in business and general statement aviation activity or component MRO work.
63 Consolidated balance sheet 64 Consolidated cash flow statement 65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Statement of Directors Responsibilities 65 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 66 Accounting policies of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that the Group Remuneration Report and the fi financial statements in accordance with disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the 69 Notes to the consolidated applicable law and regulations.
Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company fi financial financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare fi financial statements statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for each fi financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable 95 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA prepare the Group fi financial statements under International Financial steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Aviation plc in respect of the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity parent company financial fi financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in of the corporate and fi financial information included on the Companys statements accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 96 Company balance sheet International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS fi financial dissemination of fi financial statements may diff er from legislation in other 96 Accounting policies of statements present fairly for each fi financial year the Companys fi financial jurisdictions.
the Company position, fi financial performance and cash fl ows.
This requires the faithful A procedure is in place to enable the directors to provide the 98 Notes to the Company representation of the eff ects of transactions, other events and conditions in confi rmation regarding audit information required under s418 of the financial statements accordance with the defi nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, Companies Act 2006.
This confi rmation is set out on page 45 of the Directors 102 Principal subsidiary income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Report Additional Disclosures.
undertakings Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of fi financial The directors confi rm that to the best of their knowledge: 103 Five year summary statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved a t he fi financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 104 Shareholder information by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, However, directors are also required to: fi financial position and profi t or loss of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and properly select and apply accounting policies: b t he Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and p resent information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides performance of the business and the position of the Company and the relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specifi c with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
requirements in IFRSs are insuffi cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys Signed on behalf of the Board fi financial position and fi financial performance.
Simon Pryce Andrew Wood The directors have elected to prepare the parent company fi financial Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 24 February 2010 24 February 2010 Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company fi financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of aff airs of the company.
In preparing these fi financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the fi financial statements.
