Our Strategy BBA Aviations vision is to be a dynamic, world class supplier to the global aerospace industry, continuously delivering exceptional performance.
Our overriding objective is to grow exceptional, long-term, sustainable value for our stakeholders through: Exceeding customer expectations and competitor off erings Continuously improving market-leading and innovative businesses Working together for greater gain through improved co-ordination and co-operation Being an employer of choice for empowered individuals in a safe and sustainable environment Always behaving with integrity and respect BBA Aviations strategy is to develop and maintain a balanced portfolio of aviation support and aftermarket businesses which have barriers to entry, a focus on the B&GA sector and which produce above average growth rates and attractive fi financial returns.
BBA Aviation has developed through a combination of organic growth and bolt-on acquisitions in businesses where it has leading market positions, generates strong cash fl ow and in businesses that are well placed to benefi t from cyclical and secular growth.
Flight Support will grow through further leveraging of its network and services and will develop and expand its locations and services globally, both organically and by way of acquisitions.
The Aftermarket Services and Systems businesses will look to secure new aftermarket OEM licences and engine authorisations and to develop specialised commercial aviation landing gear and hydraulic sub-systems.
It will also continue the expansion of its component and repair capability to support ERO, landing gear and other aftermarket opportunities.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Approximately two-thirds of BBA Aviations revenue is driven by demand for B&GA travel, a quarter by commercial aviation movements and the balance by military aviation.
In B&GA, our performance is primarily driven by fl ying activity, both in terms of the impact it has for Signature on movements and fuel consumption, and in our aftermarket businesses on resultant demand for components, repair and overhaul.
In commercial aviation, our revenues are driven by aircraft movements rather than passenger miles.
The key risks that impact the level of fl ying activity are: General economic conditions and business and consumer confi dence which drives short-term demand: Catastrophic global events such as terrorist attacks and international confl icts and global pandemics which have impacted regional and international air travel: A very high price per barrel for crude oil and a corresponding rise in jet fuel prices for a prolonged period which particularly impacts the commercial market: and Legislation impacting air travel.
The Group has signifi cant operations in the USA with approximately 74% of pre-tax profi ts being denominated in US dollars.
Although we are seeking to expand our operations in Europe and the rest of the world, the majority of all B&GA aircraft are located in North America and it will remain our most signifi cant market in the foreseeable future.
Consequently, our fi financial performance in sterling terms is subject to the eff ects of fl uctuations in foreign exchange rates, in particular the rate of exchange between US dollar and sterling.
The Group has a number of contingent liabilities that might impact its future performance.
These are analysed in note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Retaining our key management is of critical importance to the Group.
In 2010 the Group will be introducing changes to its Group remuneration policy, ensuring that our compensation and benefi ts off erings remain competitive as well as improving the alignment and motivation of our senior executives to deliver the Companys strategic objectives.
