ASIG innovative and market-leading technology Managing the complexity of an airside business that supports hundreds of fl ights a day at over 60 airports worldwide requires innovative ways of working and the smart use of technology as well as the hard work and commitment of staff.
Streamlining processes and reporting accurately enhances ASIGs reputation with customers and consolidates its position as an industry leader on the ramp.
In 2009, ASIG introduced a data management system to its ground equipment fuelling activities at three major airports in the USA: Los Angeles International LAX, Chicago OHare International ORD and Philadelphia International PHL.
ASIG refuels over 2,000 pieces of its own and customers ground equipment at these locations daily, from tugs to belt loaders to hydrant trucks, often more than once.
This mobile technology links, via a handheld device, the equipment being fuelled to ASIGs proprietary fuel management system, ensuring the correct fuel is provided and accurately reporting management information direct to the customer via their online interface.
This technology prevents the misfuelling of equipment, provides an indicator for technical issues with the equipment, allows for real time inventory management and automatically creates accounting data meaning ASIG operators can just get on with the job.
This data management system will be rolled out to nine more US airports in 2010.
20 Los Angeles International Airport ASIG ground equipment, supported by ASIGs fuel management system 21 ASIG Inc Inc 1 2009 2008 dec 2008 dec Revenue m m % m % USA 177.4 166.5 7 197.4 10 Europe & ROW 31.3 31.1 1 31.2 Total 208.7 197.6 6 228.6 9 1 At constant exchange rates Revenue of 208.7 million 2008: 197.6 million in ASIG increased by 6% on a reported basis, but declined by 9% on a constant currency basis and, excluding the 10.7 million impact of lower fuel prices, reduced by 5% on an organic basis.
fide-icing revenue was slightly lower than the prior year.
The 5% organic revenue reduction represented a substantial outperformance relative to the US market which contracted by 14%, with the outperformance driven by a number of new contract wins during the year.
In addition to the normal practice of fl exing airside labour to match demand, ASIG made a structural headcount reduction of 236 FTEs in early 2009, as well as reducing overtime and placing restrictions on other discretionary expenditure.
Early in 2009, ASIG expanded its reach when it entered the Washington Dulles International Airport market with the award of two key aviation fuel services contracts.
ASIG was selected by a consortium of 39 airlines to operate the jet fuel facility which supplies all of the carriers operating at the airport.
Separately, ASIG was awarded the contract to provide aircraft refuelling services to 23 of the airports carriers, amounting to approximately 100,000 fl ights annually.
In addition ASIG entered the market at Buff alo Niagara International Airport where the company is providing critical winter aircraft fide-icing services for US Airways and Continental Airlines.
ASIG renewed system-wide agreements with American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Frontier Airlines at numerous airports across North America, added a number of ground handling and refuelling contracts and added baggage system and jetway maintenance contracts at Los Angeles International Airport.
In Europe, ASIGs joint venture with Skytanking was successful in renewing its fuel services agreements at Munich International Airport for a further fi five years.
In total, net new contract wins should generate approximately $14 million of incremental revenue annually.
In 2008, ASIG secured a seven-year, $150 million contract to provide ground services at JFK International Airports Terminal One, one of the industrys largest ground handling contracts.
Based on our strong performance and the achievement of our service commitments, the contract has been extended by an additional two years beyond the original term.
Our into-plane refuelling business in Thailand, established in 2006, is being adversely impacted by the local competitive environment that is aff ecting our ability to generate appropriate margins in the short term.
As a result of this, we incurred a non-cash accounting impairment charge of 5.5 million against the investment in the fi first half of the year.
We remain committed to the market and to our customers and continue to value the strategic importance of this foothold in the fast-growing AsiaPacifi c region.
Los Angeles International Airport ASIG safely delivers over 985,000 gallons of jet fuel to 300 departing aircraft a day Directors Report 23 In Aftermarket Services and Systems, we service, manufacture and support engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
Engine Repair and Overhaul is authorised to work on more than 80% of the engines powering the business and general aviation fleet.
Legacy Support is the leading provider of high-quality, cost-effective solutions in the continuing support of maturing aerospace platforms to the major aerospace OEMs and airframe operators.
APPH is a niche landing gear and hydraulic sub-systems manufacturer, designing, engineering, manufacturing and supplying systems and sub-systems for original equipment and aftermarket applications.
