30 The Board of Directors and senior management The Board of Helical Bar plc is collectively responsible for providing Non-executive directors the entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of Chairman controls and reporting structures which assist the Group in pursuing Giles Weaver, FCA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive its strategic aims and business objectives.
director in 1993 and was appointed Chairman following the 2005 AGM.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations and The Board of Helical Bar plc comprises five executive directors and Appointments Committees.
A past Chairman of Murray Johnstone four non-executive directors.
Ltd, he is Chairman of Kenmore European Industrial Fund Limited and AH Medical Properties PLC and a director of Aberdeen Asset Board of Directors and other officers Management plc and IRP Property Investments Limited as well as Executive directors being Chairman or a director of a number of investment companies.
Michael Slade, BSc Est Man FRICS FSVA, joined the Board as an Antony Beevor, BA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive executive director in 1984 and was appointed Chief Executive in director in 2000.
He is the Senior Independent Director and 1986.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the Finance Director Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
Nigel McNair Scott, MA FCA FCT, joined the Board as a non-executive A former Head of Corporate Finance at Hambros Bank and former director in 1985 and was subsequently appointed Finance Director in Chairman of Croda International Plc, he is Deputy Chairman of the 1987.
A former director of Johnson Matthey plc and Govett Strategic Takeover Panel and Chairman of the Trustees of Croda Investment Trust plc, he is Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc.
Director Wilf Weeks, OBE, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Gerald Kaye, BSc Est Man FRICS, was appointed to the Board as in 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations an executive director in 1994 and is responsible for the Groups and Appointments Committees.
Founder and Chairman of GJW development activities.
He is a former director of London & Government Relations, he is now the Chairman of European Public Edinburgh Trust Plc.
He was awarded an OBE in June 2006 for his services to the arts in London.
Director Matthew Bonning-Snook, BSc Urb Est Surveying MRICS, was appointed Andrew Gulliford, BSc Est.
Man, FRICS, was appointed to the Board to the Board as an executive director in 2007.
Prior to joining Helical as a non-executive director in 2006.
He is a member of the Audit, in 1995 he worked for Richard Ellis now CB Richard Ellis, and Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
oversees many of Helicals office and mixed use developments.
A former Deputy Senior Partner of Cushman & Wakefield Healey & Aged 41.
Baker, he is a non-executive director of McKay Securities PLC, IRP Property Investments Limited and various other companies.
Jack Pitman, MA Cantab MRICS, was appointed to the Board as an executive director in 2007.
Before joining the Group in 2001 he was Company Secretary a director of Chester Properties Ltd.
He is responsible for overseeing Tim Murphy, ACA, was appointed Company Secretary in 1994. a number of joint venture projects, an investment portfolio and Aged 49. industrial development and retirement village projects.
Senior management Former Director John Inwood joined the Group as a management executive Michael Brown resigned from the Board on 4 June 2009. in 1995.
Duncan Walker joined the Group as a development executive in 2007.
Helical Bar plc report & accounts 2009
