Bellway p. l. c. 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of Bellway p. l. c. to the shareholders for the year ended 31 July 2009.
Principal activities The Company is a holding company, owning subsidiary undertakings which continue to be engaged principally in housebuilding in the United Kingdom UK.
Performance and prospects A review of the Groups performance and prospects that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 5, the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11, the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 12, the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 15 to 17, the Environmental Policy Statement on pages 18 and 19, and the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23.
In addition, information in respect of the principal operating risks of the business is set out in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 24 and 25.
Results and dividends The loss for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 27.4 million 2008 27.0 million profit.
Ordinary dividends The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2009 of 6.0p per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the year end.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 6.0p per share in respect of the previous year ended 31 July 2008, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2009 of 3.0p per share.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on 20 January 2010 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 11 December 2009.
Directors All the directors of the Company, who are shown on page 26, served throughout the year, apart from Mr Toms who was appointed on 1 February 2009.
Mr Finn was a director at the start of the year and retired on 16 January 2009.
Mr Cuthbert joins the Board on 1 November 2009.
Two directors retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Mr Dawe and Mr Watson retire by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and the Combined Code.
Mr Perry will retire at the forthcoming AGM and is not seeking re-election.
Mr Toms will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, having been appointed a director since the previous AGM.
The directors biographies are shown on page 27.
As reported in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, Mr John Cuthberts appointment as a non-executive director takes effect from 1 November 2009.
Mr Cuthbert will join the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration following Mr Perrys retirement on 15 January 2010.
Mr Cuthbert will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, the first following his appointment.
None of the executive directors hold external directorships.
Following formal rigorous evaluation, the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, is satisfied as to the effectiveness and commitment of the Chief Executive, Mr Watson, and Mr Johnson, as senior independent non-executive director, acting on behalf of the Board, is satisfied as to the effectiveness and commitment of Mr Dawe.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Directors contracts Details of the terms of appointment of the two directors who are retiring and offering themselves for re-election, and the two directors who are offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out below: First appointed Current contract letter Current contract letter Unexpired term Notice period as a of appointment of appointment at the date by the director commencement date expiry date of this report Company Service contract of executive director 16 March 2001, amended Normal J K Watson 1 August 1995 7 October 2009 retirement age 60 12 months 12 months Letter of appointment of non-executive directors H C Dawe 9 August 1977 1 November 2007 31 October 2010 12 months 3 months M R Toms 1 February 2009 1 February 2009 31 January 2012 27 months 3 months Mr J A Cuthbert is to be appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 November 2009 for a term of three years with a notice period on either side of three months.
Details of the terms of appointment of all the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 36 and 37.
Directors interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company and in share ownership plan arrangements are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 38 to 41.
Takeovers Directive The information for shareholders required pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 which implements the Takeovers Directive is disclosed in this report and in the Shareholder Information section on page 79.
Notifiable shareholders interests As at 12 October 2009, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of shares % total with voting rights voting rights Fidelity International Ltd FMR Corp 9,300,000 7.70 Aegon UK Group of Companies 6,051,142 5.01 JP Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc. 6,046,514 5.01 AXA Framlington Investment Management.
5,603,638 4.64 Legal & General Group plc 4,545,633 3.76 Polaris Capital Management, LLC 4,407,939 3.65 HBOS plc 4,261,453 3.53 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3,890,282 3.22 Corporate governance Introduction The Board acknowledges the importance of, and is committed to, the principle of achieving and maintaining a high standard of corporate governance.
This report, together with the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration, as detailed on pages 35 to 41, describes how the Principles of Good Governance, which are set out in section 1 of the Combined Code, are applied by the Group.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Board considers that it has complied with the detailed provisions of the revised Combined Code, which was amended in June 2008, throughout the year to 31 July 2009 and up to the date of this report.
The Combined Code is publicly available free of charge from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, e-mail: customer.
Statement about applying the Principles of Good Governance The Group has applied the Principles of Good Governance, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the Combined Code as reported above.
Further explanations of how the Main Principles and Supporting Principles have been applied are set out below and, in connection with the directors remuneration, in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Operating Review and the Financial Review present a balanced and comprehensive assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Bellway p. l. c. 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued The Board At the date of this report the Board consists of seven directors whose names, responsibilities and other details appear on pages 26 and 27.
Three of the directors are executive and four of the directors, including the Chairman, are non-executive.
One of the non-executive directors, Mr Perry, will retire at the AGM on 15 January 2010 and will not seek re-election.
Mr John Cuthbert has accepted an appointment as a non-executive director from 1 November 2009, putting the number of Board members temporarily up to eight for a period of two and a half months.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved for its decision which includes various matters to do with Companies Acts and other legal requirements, listing requirements, Board membership and Board Committees, management, corporate governance, employment, financial and other miscellaneous items.
In addition, it has a series of matters that are dealt with at regular Board meetings including an operational review, a financial review, strategy, land acquired, major projects, personnel, corporate governance, internal control and health and safety.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of powers delegated to management below Board level.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and all the directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibility as directors.
Board effectiveness The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience to meet the requirements of the business.
During the year there were eleven Board meetings, four Audit Committee meetings, seven meetings of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration, one meeting of the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration and two Nomination Committee meetings.
There were no absences from any Board or Committee meetings by any director, with the exception that Mr Stoker, Mr Perry and Mr Johnson were each unable to attend one Board meeting.
During the year the non-executive directors met without the executive directors on one occasion, and also met once during the year without the Chairman present.
One-third of the directors offer themselves for re-election each year at the AGM and all directors seek re-election every three years in accordance with the Articles.
New directors appointed since the last AGM are required to offer themselves for re-election at the next AGM.
Training and development The Board received appropriate training and updates on various matters relevant to its role as and when required during the year.
Training needs are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation process and on an ongoing basis.
Board balance and independence The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive, which are recorded in writing and approved by the Board, are separate with a clear division of responsibilities, ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
The senior independent non-executive director is Mr Johnson, who was appointed to this role following Mr Finns retirement on 16 January 2009.
The senior independent non-executive director is available for shareholders to contact with any queries or concerns they may have.
Each of the non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, has at all times acted independently of management and has no relationship which would materially affect the exercise of his independent judgement and decision-making.
The Company considers all of its non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, to be independent, as defined in the Combined Code.
With regard to Mr Perry, as at 1 November 2009 he will have served on the Board and its Committees for ten years.
The Company has carefully considered Mr Perrys character and judgement.
He has been subject to a rigorous evaluation process and the Company can confirm that, in its view, he remains independent and therefore it is appropriate for him to remain in post until his retirement on 15 January 2010.
Whenever any director considers that he is interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Group is or may be a party, due notice is given to the Board.
No such instances of any significance have arisen during the year.
Board evaluation During the year the directors undertook an evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation was performed using a self-assessment questionnaire.
This involved the Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, evaluating the performance of the other individual directors, and the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, assessing the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman, evaluated its own performance, and the Committees, led by the Chairman of each, evaluated their own performance.
As part of the process of ensuring Board effectiveness, the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, met without the Chairman present.
Additionally, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
The Chairman also had meetings with each of the executive directors.
The Board and its Committees reviewed the results of these evaluations and are satisfied with the evidence they provided about the balance, effectiveness and performance of the Board and its Committees and the effectiveness and commitment of each director.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Board Committees The Board has properly constituted Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference for the Committees are available either on request, at the AGM or on the Companys website: www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Mr Johnson Chairman and Mr Perry, who were members of the Committee throughout the year, and Mr Toms who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 February 2009.
Mr Finn was a member of the Committee until his retirement on 16 January 2009.
Mr Perry retires on 15 January 2010 and he will be replaced on the Committee from 15 January 2010 by Mr Cuthbert.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and met four times during the year under review.
The Committees responsibilities include the following.
to consider the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors and assess their independence each year.
to recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not affect the external auditors independence or objectivity.
to agree the nature and scope of the audit and review the quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditors to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements.
to oversee the process for selecting the external auditors and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the AGM.
to consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
to review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from whistleblowers.
to review managements reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management.
to assess the scope and effectiveness of the systems established by management to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
to review and make recommendations in relation to the half year and annual accounts prior to submission to the Board.
The Board believes that Mr Johnson, the Committee Chairman, has recent relevant financial experience as a Chartered Accountant.
The Group has a written Independent Auditor Policy in place which seeks to preserve the independence of its auditors by defining those non-audit services the independent auditors may and may not provide.
There are clearly defined levels of approval depending on the value of work to be provided.
Where fees exceed 100,000, or where total non-audit fees equate to 100% of audit fees, Board approval would be required.
Any material project with fees in excess of 200,000, where the auditors are considered for the provision of services, would be the subject of a competitive tendering process.
During the year the Committee met the auditors without management present on two occasions.
In addition, the Committee Chairman had regular contact with the Finance Director and the external auditors.
Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration comprises Mr Toms Chairman, Mr Perry and Mr Johnson.
Mr Perry and Mr Johnson were members of the Committee throughout the year, and Mr Toms joined the Committee as Chairman on his appointment as a non-executive director on 1 February 2009.
Mr Perry is to retire at the AGM on 15 January 2010, and he will be replaced on this Committee by Mr Cuthbert.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and during the year it met on seven occasions.
Its duties are to review and recommend the basic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conditions of employment, including performance related payments, long-term incentive schemes and other benefits of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 41 contains details of directors remuneration and the Groups policies in relation to directors remuneration.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration comprises the executive directors and is chaired by Mr Watson.
It meets at least once a year to review and recommend the terms, conditions and remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Last year it met on one occasion to review the fees and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Mr Perry Chairman, Mr Johnson and Mr Dawe, who were members of the Committee throughout the year, and Mr Toms who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 February 2009.
Mr Perry is to retire at the AGM on 15 January 2010, and he will be replaced on this Committee by Mr Cuthbert and replaced as Chairman of the Committee by Mr Dawe.
The Committees main duties are to formulate plans for succession for both executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, for the key roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and to make recommendations regarding appointments to the Board.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and last year met on three occasions.
Bellway p. l. c. 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued Appointments to the Board are made on merit through a formal, rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria recommended by the Committee.
The Committee also guides the whole Board in arranging orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The appointment of a non-executive director is for a specified term and re-appointment is not automatic and is made on the recommendation of the Committee.
During the year the Committee was requested by the Board to recommend a suitable candidate to fill the vacancy to be created when Mr Perry retires from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 15 January 2010.
The Committee consulted the Board and the Group Company Secretary, and did not use recruitment consultants or open advertising because the Committee felt able to recruit a suitably qualified individual using its own resources and that of the Company.
The Committee recommended Mr Cuthbert to the Board and the Board agreed with the Committees recommendation.
His appointment will commence on 1 November 2009.
Mr Cuthberts biography is shown on page 27.
Other committees of the Board are formed to perform certain specific functions as required from time to time.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of directors remuneration are detailed in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 35 to 41.
Accountability and audit The statement on going concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages 33 and 42 respectively.
The Audit Committee has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Its role is detailed above.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed, on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the system of internal control throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report Internal Control Guidance for Directors of Listed Companies Incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to establish, maintain and monitor a system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management to safeguard the shareholders interests in the Companys assets.
This system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular requirements and reduce the risk to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to particular areas of the business together with the design and operation of suitable controls.
These significant risks, which are described in the Operating Risk Statement on pages 24 and 25, are regularly assessed and cover all aspects of the business, but in particular land acquisition, planning, construction, health and safety, information and reporting systems, sales, environmental issues, personnel, asset protection, treasury management and legal and regulatory compliance.
In addition, there is a responsibility to mitigate risk by the provision of adequate insurance cover and by management reporting on material changes in the business or external environment affecting the risk profile.
There is a system of regular reporting to the Board which provides for appropriate details and assurances on the assessment and control of risks.
The continuing role of the Board is, on a systematic basis, to review the key risks inherent in the business, the operation of the systems and controls necessary to manage such risks and its effectiveness and satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are being taken to mitigate these risks.
The key areas of control are as follows: the Board has agreed a list of key risks which affect the Group and has considered the extent to which the measures taken by the Group mitigate those risks.
an established monitoring structure is in place, which provides short lines of communication and easy access to members of the Board.
delegation of clearly defined responsibilities to divisional boards with clear procedures and authority limits in place to provide and maintain effective controls across the Group.
a comprehensive reporting system entailing annual budgets, regular forecasting and financial reporting.
a central treasury function operates at Head Office.
regular meetings with management attended by members of the Board to review divisional performance.
the acquisition of land and land interests is subject to checking by management and approval by the Board to ensure that purchasing criteria are met.
regular reviews of site costs and revenues by senior Head Office personnel which are reported to the Board.
regular visits to sites by senior management and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance.
a number of the Groups key functions are dealt with centrally.
These include finance, banking, taxation, financial services, pensions, insurance, information technology, legal, personnel and company secretarial.
Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Bellway p. l. c. 33 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function and, as recommended by the Combined Code, the Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function and makes a recommendation to the Board.
During the year, having considered the position, the Audit Committee recommended that no internal audit function, as such, was presently required, given the robust systems and strong controls already present in the Group.
The position will continue to be monitored by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Whistleblowing arrangements The Group has operated throughout the year a whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via an independent external third party, to confidentially report any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review the effectiveness of this arrangement.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Half Year Reports, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements.
The AGM is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the whole Board, both during, and also informally, before and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly updated on shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Further information for shareholders is available under Shareholder Information on pages 77 to 80 and also on the Companys website at www.
Going concern After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further on page 47.
Employees The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
It is the Groups policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to employees of the Group, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part time, full time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are assisted and encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Training at each division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains employee relations using a variety of means appropriate to its own particular needs.
New employees, when eligible, are invited to join the Companys pension and life assurance arrangements and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
The Company also offers a private medical scheme, childcare vouchers, a cycle to work scheme and personal accident insurance arrangements.
In accordance with statutory requirements, the Company also has a designated stakeholder pension arrangement.
Environmental issues The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and, when carrying out its business, endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life, both for the present and the future.
An Environmental Policy Statement, approved by the Board, has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 12, the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 15 to 17, the Environmental Policy Statement on pages 18 and 19, and in the Corporate Responsibility Report itself which is available to view on the Companys website www.
co. uk or from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
In addition, the Company is developing its systems in line with the ISO14001 Environmental Standard.
Health and safety at work The Group promotes all aspects of health and safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors and visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting, and are addressed in the Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 6 to 11, in the Corporate Responsibility Policy on page 12, in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 15 to 17, and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys website www.
Donations During the year the Group made no political contributions but donated 11,275 2008 22,010 for charitable purposes.
Significant relationships The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the financing of the business.
Other than the foregoing the Group has contractual and other arrangements in place with suppliers and other third parties which support its business activities.
None of these arrangements are considered to be critical to the performance of the business.
Bellway p. l. c. 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Report of the Directors continued Suppliers The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Group follows the Better Payment Practice Code and its current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its materials suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the month end following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2009 of 52.610 million 2008 75.075 million gave a creditor payment period of 26 days 2008 27 days.
Land creditors due within one year were 83.588 million 2008 81.806 million.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 68 days 2008 57 days.
The parent company had no land or trade creditors at 31 July 2009 2008 nil.
Purchase of the Companys own shares The Company was given authority at the 2009 AGM to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares.
As at the date of this report no market purchases have been made by the Company and this authority will expire at the end of the 2010 AGM.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the 2010 AGM.
Indemnification of directors The Company has in place directors and officers insurance and the Articles provide the directors with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving this report.
Disclosure of all relevant information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM special business Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Friday 15 January 2010.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions are set out in Shareholder Information on pages 77 and 78.
By order of the Board G Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary 12 October 2009
