Savills plc 28 Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report The Directors present their Report and the Martin Angle, who retires by rotation in Statement of Disclosure to Auditors audited financial statements for the year accordance with the Companys Articles of In accordance with Section 418, ended 31 December 2009.
Association at this years Annual General Companies Act 2006 each Director at the Meeting, having been in office for three date of approval of this report confirms that: Principal activity years since he was last elected, will offer Savills plc is a holding company.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no himself for re-election.
In accordance with The activities of its principal subsidiaries information, which would be needed by the Combined Code, Charles McVeigh, are to provide transactional advice, the Companys Auditors in connection who has been in office for more than nine consultancy and management services in with preparing their audit report, of which years, also stands for re-election, and going connection with commercial, residential and the auditors are not aware: and forward will stand for re-election annually.
agricultural property, and property related The Board is satisfied that each Director each Director has taken all the steps that financial services and fund management.
who is standing for re-election continues to he ought to have taken as a Director to show the necessary commitment and to be Operations make himself aware of any such an effective member of the Board due to information and to establish that the The Group operates through a network of their skills, expertise and business acumen.
offices and associates in the UK, Europe, Notwithstanding his long service, the Board Asia Pacific and the USA.
Takeover Directive considers that Charles McVeigh continues Dividend Pursuant to regulations made under the to be regarded as entirely independent in Companies Act 2006 the Company is The profit attributable to shareholders is character and judgement.
required to disclose certain additional 8.9m 2008 loss: 11.3m.
An interim Interests in the issued share capital of the information.
Those disclosures not covered dividend of 3.0p net per share amounting Company held at the beginning and end of elsewhere within this Annual Report are as to 3.7m 2008: 7.3m was paid on the year under review by those who were follows: 28 October 2009 and a second interim Directors at 31 December 2009 or their dividend of 6.0p net per share amounting Share capital and major shareholdings families are set out on page 42 of the to 7.4m will be paid on 1 April 2010 to The share capital of the Company is Remuneration report.
Details of share shareholders on the register at 12 March detailed on page 92. options held by the Directors pursuant to 2010.
No final dividend is recommended.
the Companys share option schemes are The Company has only one class of share Principal developments given in the Remuneration report on pages capital formed of ordinary shares.
It is the Boards policy that the The development of the business is forming part of the ordinary share capital Executive Directors should retain at least detailed in the sections entitled Review of have the same rights and each carries one 105,000 shares in the Company and the operations and Financial review on pages vote.
There are no unusual restrictions Group Chief Executive retain at least 07 to 17. on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register The principal risks and uncertainties are a transfer of a certificated share unless the In accordance with DTR4, the Directors detailed on pages 24 and 25. instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the responsibilities statement is set out on page Directors registered office of the Company or any 46 of this Annual Report.
Short biographical details of the current other place as the Board may decide Enhanced Business Review Directors are shown on pages 26 and 27. accompanied by the certificate for the On 13 February 2009, Mark Dearsley In accordance with Section 417 shares to be transferred and such other resigned as Group Finance Director and Companies Act 2006, the Company is evidence as the Directors may reasonably on 16 March 2009, Simon Shaw was required to set out in this report a fair review require to show the right of the transferor to appointed to the Board as Group Chief of the business of the Group during the make the transfer: or ii in respect of only Financial Officer.
Since the year end, the year ended 31 December 2009 and of the one class of shares.
Board has been restructured to streamline position of the Group at the end of that The Directors may also refuse to register a the management of the Group and financial year, together with a description of transfer of a share whether certificated or provide an improved focus for decision the principal risks and uncertainties facing uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, in making.
As a result of this restructuring, the Group.
The information can be found in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
three Executive Directors, Rupert the following sections of this Annual Report: The Board may also close the register of Sebag-Montefiore, Simon Hope and Review of operations page 07 shareholders for up to 30 days effectively Robert McKellar stood down from the suspending the registration of all transfers: Board on 18 January 2010.
All three remain Group strategy page 08 however, in respect of uncertificated members of the Group Executive Board.
Key performance indicators page 08 shares, consent from CREST would be Following this restructuring, the Board required for such a closure.
comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, Financial review page 16 two Executive Directors and four As at 17 March 2010, the latest practicable Corporate responsibilities page 18 Independent Non-Executive Directors full date before the publication of this Annual details are provided on page 26.
At the Risks and uncertainties page 24 Report, the Company had been notified of conclusion of the forthcoming Annual the following interests in the Companys General Meeting, Fields Wicker-Miurin, ordinary share capital in accordance with who joined the Board in 2002, will retire Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys from the Board.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Our governance Savills plc 29 Report and Accounts 2009 Number Articles of Association Employees are able to share in this success Shareholders of shares % through bonus schemes and share plans, The Companys Articles are governed by Lloyds TSB Group Plc see pages 40 and 41 for more information.
relevant statutes and may be amended by including 9,303,391 shares The Group encourages its employees to special resolution of the shareholders in a held on behalf of The Savills plc develop their skills through training and general meeting.
1992 Employee Benefit Trust 13,503,271 10.24 continued professional development.
The Companys rules about the BlackRock, Inc 7,220,131 5.48 It is the policy of the Group to provide appointment and replacement of Directors Majedie Asset employment on an equal basis irrespective are contained in the Articles.
The powers of Management Limited 6,821,482 5.17 of gender, race, age, marital status, sexual the Directors are determined by UK orientation, religion or religious belief, Artisan Partners legislation, and the Memorandum and nationality, colour or disability.
Limited Partnership 6,613,236 5.02 Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
Insurance cover FIL Limited 6,549,524 4.97 Annual General Meeting The Company purchases insurance to Artemis Investment cover its Directors and Officers against their The Notice convening the Annual General Management Limited 6,472,808 4.91 costs in defending themselves in civil legal Meeting AGM, to be held at 20 Grosvenor Ignis Investment proceedings taken against them in that Hill, Berkeley Square, London W1K 3HQ at Services Limited 5,365,211 4.07 capacity and in respect of damages 12 noon on 5 May 2010, is contained in the Legal & General resulting from the unsuccessful defence of AGM Circular circulated to shareholders Group Plc 5,230,378 3.97 any proceedings.
The insurance does not with this Annual Report and Accounts.
provide cover where the Director has acted In addition to the normal business to be As at 31 December 2009, the Savills plc fraudulently or dishonestly.
considered at the AGM, a resolution will 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT be proposed to renew the Companys As permitted by company law, qualifying held 9,314,386 shares.
Any voting or other authority to call general meetings other third party indemnity provisions as defined similar decisions relating to these shares are than the AGM on 14 days notice.
by Section 234 of the Companies Act taken by the trustees of the EBT, who may 2006 are in force for the benefit of the Creditors payment policy take account of any recommendation of Directors and for former Directors who held the Company.
The EBT waives all but The Group does not follow any specified office during the 2009 financial year.
0.01p per share of its dividend entitlement.
code or standard on payment practice.
For further details of the EBT please refer to However, the Group aims to settle supplier Post balance sheet events Note 2 to the financial statements.
accounts in accordance with the individual On 5 March 2010, Savills Investments terms of business agreed with each Limited SIL, which holds 60% of the voting Purchase of own shares supplier.
There were 32 days purchases rights in Cordea Savills LLP, entered into In accordance with the Listing Rules at the outstanding at the end of the year for the a conditional agreement to acquire the B AGM on 6 May 2009, shareholders gave Company 2008: 26 days.
Member Interests, which represent 40% of authority for a limited purchase of Savills the voting rights in Cordea Savills.
The total Charitable donations and shares for cancellation of up to 10% of the consideration payable by SIL is up to political contributions issued share capital.
During the year, no 15.4m, of which 4.6m will be paid on shares were purchased for cancellation The amount paid to charitable transaction close with another 4.5m under the programme.
organisations during the year was payable in equal instalments on the first 195,042 revised 2008: 292,902.
The Board proposes to seek shareholder and second anniversaries of close, and up In addition to the donations above, the approval at the AGM on 5 May 2010 to a further 6.3m payable on the second Group also operates a Give As You Earn to renew the Companys authority to anniversary, subject to Cordea Savills scheme which allows employees to purchase its own ordinary shares of 2.5p earnings performance over the period from donate a portion of their monthly salary each for cancellation or to be held in close.
The transaction is conditional on to a registered charity.
Details of the proposed resolution shareholder approval, which will be sought operates a bonus waiver scheme whereby are outlined in the Notice of Annual General at the General Meeting to be held on employees can elect to waive an element of Meeting circulated to shareholders with 24 March 2010. any annual bonus in favour of registered this Annual Report and Accounts AGM charities of their choice upon which the Auditors Circular.
Group augments the donation to the In accordance with Section 489 of the Change of control chosen charity by 10%.
These additional Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the Group contributions totalled 5,081 There are no significant agreements which re-appointment of  2008: 28,281 during the year.
There take effect, alter or terminate in the event of LLP as auditors of the Company will be were no political contributions 2008: nil.
change of control of the Company except proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
that under its banking arrangements, a Corporate governance By order of the Board change of control may trigger an early The Corporate governance report, the repayment requirement and that in relation Chris Lee remuneration report and the Directors to the Italian Opportunities Funds No.
1 and Group Company Secretary responsibilities are set out on pages 30 to 2 managed by Cordea Savills LLP, certain 35 and form part of this report.
17 March 2010 investors in these funds may stop further commitments to the funds, in which case Employees Registered Office: any undrawn elements of commitments will The Directors recognise that the quality, 20 Grosvenor Hill be cancelled.
commitment and motivation of Savills Berkeley Square staff is a key element in the success of London W1K 3HQ the Group, see pages 18 to 23 for more information.
