Savills plc 04 Report and Accounts 2009 Sustaining our momentum We have a diverse portfolio... We are passionate about property and provide a full range of real estate services to clients worldwide, with a strong emphasis on local market knowledge.
Londons O2 site sold Lend Lease and Quintain announce sale of shares in Meridian Delta Dome Limited UK Savills represented Lend Lease Europe and Quintain in the sale of the share capital in their joint venture Meridian Delta Dome Limited MDDL to Trinity College Cambridge for 24m.
Savills closes $162m JV capitalisation for new cancer centre in Dallas, Texas US Savills has arranged a joint venture capitalisation on behalf of Duke Realty Corporation for the new 460,000 sq ft 42,734 sq m Baylor Cancer Centre located on the Baylor University Medical Centre campus in Dallas, Texas.
Dukes joint venture partner for the project is Northwestern Mutual Life and the total transaction is valued at approximately $162m.
Our business Savills plc 05 Report and Accounts 2009 Londons O2 site sold Overseas fund sets Sydney record Savills completes three sales in one Lend Lease and Quintain announce sale of shares in Meridian Delta Dome Limited as Savills closes two deals in Australia of Londons most prestigious addresses Australia UK Savills has advised Sydney-based Eaton Square has long been Charter Hall Groups CHG Core recognised as one of Londons Plus Office Fund CPOF on the sale most prestigious addresses.
of Atrium, an A-grade commercial In 2009 Savills was responsible for office building, for AUS$137m the sale of three of just 12 private 76m to the Swiss-based AFIAA houses in the square, including this Foundation for International Real fabulous property, meticulously Estate Investments.
The sale restored by developer Earlcrown, represents one of the largest and sold to a Hong Kong Chinese commercial property transactions buyer.
The guide price for this in Sydney for the last 18 months.
Savills plc 06 Report and Accounts 2009 Sustaining our momentum continued... and we work with some of the worlds biggest names.
Arab Investments acquire Berlin property Germany Savills acted as advisors to Arab Investments Ltd in the acquisition of the district centre called Zehlendorfer Welle Zehlendorf Wave at Clayallee 330, Berlin from OFB Projektentwicklung GmbH for its first German fund.
Savills Mexico completes Savills is the sole agent on Taiwans sale of Sony HQ biggest investment deal this year Mexico Taiwan Savills Mexico, on behalf of a Savills acted as advisors to CMP private domestic buyer and seller, Group, in the sale of Asiaworld completed an off-market transaction Building to Fubon Life Assurance Co. for Sony Corporations Mexico Ltd for NT$10bn US$304m.
Headquarters in the Santa Fe submarket of Mexico City for an undisclosed price.
The transaction was Mexicos only large over US$10m transaction for an income producing office building in 2009.
