Savills plc 26 Report and Accounts 2009 Board of Directors Peter Smith Timothy Ingram Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman Senior Independent # # of the Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director Aged 63, was appointed to the Board as Aged 62, was appointed to the Board a Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 on 27 June 2002.
He is Chief Executive and was elected Chairman with effect from of Caledonia Investments plc and a Non- 1 November 2004.
His other non-executive Executive Director of The Sage Group plc, appointments are: N M Rothschild & Sons ANZ Bank Europe Limited and Alok Limited, Rothschild Bank AG, The Equitable Industries Limited.
He was formerly Life Assurance Society, Associated British Chief Executive of First National Finance Foods plc and Chairman of Templeton Corporation, a main Board Director of Abbey Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
National plc and a Non-Executive Director Formerly, Peter was Senior Partner of of Hogg Robinson plc.
 LLP PwC and served for two years as Chairman of Coopers Charles McVeigh & Lybrand International and as a member of Independent Non-Executive Director the global leadership team of PwC.
He served and Chairman of the Remuneration # as Chairman of RAC plc and was a NonCommittee Executive Director of Safeway plc.
Aged 67, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2000.
Jeremy Helsby He is currently Chairman of Citigroups # Group Chief Executive Corporate and Investment Banking Aged 54, joined Savills in 1980 and was Global Wealth Management Partnership.
appointed to the Board in 1999.
He was He serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Petropavlosk plc formerly Peter Hambro Savills Commercial and Savills Europe for Mining plc.
Formerly he was Co-Chairman seven years until he was appointed as Group of Citigroups European Investment Bank and Chief Executive on 7 May 2008.
He remains served on the Boards of Witan Investment a Director of Savills Asia Pacific.
Company plc, Clearstream, the London Stock Exchange, LIFFE, British American Simon Shaw Business Inc and was a member of both the Development Board and Advisory Council Group Chief Financial Officer of the Princes Trust.
He was also appointed Aged 45, joined Savills as Group Chief by the Bank of England to serve on the City Financial Officer on 16 March 2009.
Simon Capital Markets Committee and the Legal is a Chartered Accountant.
He is one of the Top left to right Risk Review Committee and was a member two Authorised Representatives of Savills on Charles McVeigh of the Fulbright Commission.
the Members Committee of Cordea Savills.
Peter Smith He is Non-Executive Chairman of Synairgen Fields Wicker-Miurin Fields Wicker-Miurin OBE plc and was Chief Financial Officer of Middle left to right Independent Non-Executive Director Gyrus Group PLC from 2003 until its sale Jeremy Helsby # and Chairman of the Audit Committee to Olympus Corporation in 2008, having Martin Angle previously been Chief Operating Officer of Aged 51, was appointed to the Board on Bottom left to right Profile Therapeutics plc between 1998 and 27 June 2002.
She is co-founder and partner Timothy Ingram 2003.
Between 1991 and 1997 he was a of Leaders Quest and chairs its Advisory Simon Shaw corporate financier, latterly at Hambros Board.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the Bank Limited.
CDC Group and was on the Board of the UKs Department for Business for six years, Martin Angle chairing its Investment Committee until 2008.
# She is also a governor of Kings College London Independent Non-Executive Director where she chairs the audit committee.
Aged 59, was appointed to the Board on Previously she was Chief Financial Officer 2 January 2007.
He is a Non-Executive and Director of Strategy at the London Stock Director of JSC Severstal, Pennon Group Exchange.
plc, The National Exhibition Centre Chairman and resigned as Non-Executive Director of Dubai International Capital LLC in November 2009.
Formerly, he served as Chairman of Celerant Consulting, as Group Finance Director of TI Group plc and held various executive roles with Terra Firma Capital Partners and its portfolio companies, including The Waste Recycling Group Executive Chairman and Le Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of Warwick Business School.
