30 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 we aRe tHe leadeR in RegeneRation bp pOrTfOliO uk wiDe Having been selected as preferred developer in November 2008, 12 Over 2,000 acres of the portfolio is located in South Wales and months later we completed the acquisition of a 2,500 acre portfolio together with Coed Darcy, these newly acquired sites will now of redundant BP sites across the UK.
We have now acquired all of form part of a 3 billion linked development that will completely BPs redundant land in the UK.
transform an area extending from Neath Port Talbot to Swansea.
This will take between 20-30 years to complete and will focus on The sale of the portfolio is only the second time that BP has four key areas: Education, Employment, Housing and Leisure.
approached the open market to dispose of its disused sites.
The first occasion was our acquisition in May 2008 of the 1,060 acre Llandarcy Oil Refinery in Neath, South Wales which we are currently transforming into the 1.2 billion Coed Darcy urban village.
co. uk we are pleased to be renewing our partnership with st. modwen via this latest transaction which leaves our portfolio of disused sites in a competent pair of hands and means that bps proud history will live on through the regeneration projects that st. modwen undertakes.
david toman, BPs general manager for Regeneration This transaction, by which we acquired the portfolio for a nominal sum and received a dowry from BP to fund the remediation works, confirms our ability to continue adding strategic development sites to our Hopper.
It is also a testament to our remediation expertise and skill as a developer, through which we have established lasting partnerships with significant international companies such as BP.
BP sites Our regeneration of three of the former Welsh BP sites will create up to 16,000 jobs.
indd 31 02 03 2010 11:44 32 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 we aRe a safe PaiR of Hands wArwicksHire cOlleGe, ruGby In early 2009 we were faced with the challenge of reacting to the As a result, we were able to protect jobs on site as well as the insolvency of the main contractor on one of our key construction businesses of the subcontractors.
Crucially, we avoided any costly projects the delivery of the new 35 million, 150,000 sq ft delays to this key project with works recommencing just three days Warwickshire College in Rugby.
after the contractor announced it had gone into administrative receivership.
Building works remain on track to be completed in Determined that this would not impact the construction of the April 2010.
College, we acted quickly and found a solution to ensure we did not lose the momentum already gained.
By taking a proactive view and using the skill and knowledge of our in-house construction team, we took over direct responsibility for the construction programme.
co. uk by working very proactively, st. modwen has not only been able to get the project back on site but also mitigate some of the effects upon the existing subcontractors.
This is great news for all concerned and we look forward to the building progressing to a successful opening.
chris Paget, estate director for warwickshire college The new Warwickshire College campus will sit on part of the 82 acre former Alstom Industrial complex, of which 400,000 sq ft is currently leased to Converteam, a supplier of electric power and propulsion packages.
On the remaining 70 acres we have secured outline planning to develop a 120 million urban community the Power Academy largest brownfield development in Rugby.
The new College will include a Power Academy to train technicians for the new generation of power stations.
indd 33 02 03 2010 11:45 34 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 we make a Positive diffeRence skypArk, exeTer Emphasising the strength of our regional structure and our The 20 year project is a fundamental part of the Exeter and East position as the UKs leading regeneration specialist, in March this Devon New Growth Point and will be a major contributor to the year we were appointed by Devon County Council to develop the growth of the regional economy.
107 acre, 210m Skypark site, north of Exeter International Airport.
The project will be a model of sustainable development as the The Skypark development will deliver 1.4 million sq ft of office and Skypark proposals are designed to ensure the scheme will result industrial manufacturing space including a 30,000 sq ft Innovation in overall CO2 emissions being reduced by at least a third.
Other Centre, which is expected to create around 6,500 jobs for the specific sustainable measures will include office and industrial region.
buildings constructed to the recognised high environmental BREEAM excellent standard.
co. uk i am delighted to be leading the team that will actually deliver skypark in this long term partnership with st. modwen.
They share our vision of a top quality, environmentally friendly and exemplary development which will help deliver the economic recovery of the exeter area.
councillor Humphrey temperley, devon county council The innovative partnership structure to be adopted for this joint venture with Devon County Council follows the Governments local asset backed vehicle LABV methodology and will allow the Council to participate in future value and decision making over the life of the partnership Significant employment Skypark will become the most significant employment site in the South West Peninsula.
indd 35 02 03 2010 11:45 36 st. modwen PRoPeRties Plc AnnuAl repOrT 2009 we Have an eXtensive PoRtfolio 18 town centRes wyTHensHAwe, mAncHesTer For over 10 years, we have been spearheading the regeneration In 2009, footfall in Wythenshawe increased considerably as 15 new of Wythenshawe in Manchester.
Once a flagship public sector retailers were welcomed into the town centre, giving an occupancy development, the centre became very run down and dilapidated by level of 97%.
We are now gearing up to start work in 2010 on Etrop the late 1990s.
The town centre has since undergone a significant Court, the next development phase, of which 85,000 sq ft is pre-let.
transformation and now boasts over 450,000 sq ft of retail and office space providing a vibrant retail heart which continues to thrive and improve as we progress additional development works.
co. uk Our commitment to wythenshawe remains as strong as when we first took a stake in the town centre.
we are determined to build on the positive changes we have already made.
The city council is demonstrating the same belief and determination to make the town centre a better place.
michelle taylor, north west Regional director, st. modwen By taking a 48,000 sq ft office building in Etrop Court, Manchester City Council is confirming its commitment to the ongoing regeneration of the town centre.
The resulting influx of 500 City Council employees will have a positive impact on the town, bringing more trade to the shops and surrounding businesses.
St. Modwen has worked in partnership with Manchester City 15 new retailers Council since 1997, and a masterplan for the vision for the next ten Following the addition of 15 years has recently been agreed.
new retailers, town centre occupancy levels are at 97%.
co. uk coRPoRate goveRnance we aRe dedicated to imPRoving tHe communities in wHicH we aRe active 40 Corporate social responsibility 48 Board members and senior management 51 Corporate governance report 58 Directors remuneration report 16949 24 02 10 Proof 14 16949STMODWEN.
