47 Statements Governance Financial statements Directors report Investors the company will pay the final dividend on 6th May 2010 to The Directors report of the company for the year ended 31st December 2009 is set out on pages 4750 inclusive and shareholders on the register at 16th April 2010. includes the sections of the Annual Report referred to in these pages.
The Directors report has been drawn up and presented Changes in composition of the group in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English The group acquired a number of textile maintenance businesses during the year.
The total consideration including company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection net financial liabilities assumed and deferred consideration with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
payable for the acquisitions was 34.0 million 2008: 61.6 million.
The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and statements for the year ended 31st December 2009. consideration paid are set out in note 29 to the This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
Rather they are based on current views Post balance sheet events and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks, The acquisition of Klarner, a German workwear business, took uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual place on 4th January 2010 and gross assets of approximately results to differ from any future results or developments 5 million were acquired.
expressed or implied from the forward looking statements.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date Directors of the particular statement.
The current directors of the company, including their biographical details, are set out on page 35.
Each served Principal activity throughout the year ended 31st December 2009 except The principal activity of the group is the laundering and Peter Ventress, who was appointed to the board on 1st January maintenance of textiles.
Further information on the services 2010, Iain Ferguson, David Lowden and Andrew Wood provided are outlined on pages 67 of this report.
The Davis who will be appointed to the board on 1st March 2010.
Service Group Plc is a public limited company incorporated in Roger Dye retired from the board on 31st December 2009, England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
Its registered Philip Rogerson and Ren Schuster will resign from the board office is 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7DL.
Philip Rogerson is stepping down at the end of February on becoming Chairman of Bunzl plc.
Business review Ren Schuster decided to step down from the Board as he The UK Companies Act 2006 requires the company to set out has a new role as CEO of Telefonica O 2 in Germany and no in this report a fair review of the business of the group during longer feels able to meet his obligations as a Davis Board the financial year ended 31st December 2009 including a member.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and an analysis of the position of the groups business John Burns retires at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and, at the end of the financial year, known as an Enhanced being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
term of John Burns service contract is 1 year and 2 months at 30th April 2010.
Further details of notice periods are on The information that fulfils these requirements can be found page 43.
Peter Ventress, Iain Ferguson, David Lowden and on the following pages of this Annual Report which are Andrew Wood, will be appointed to the board as directors incorporated into this report by reference: since the last Annual General Meeting and will offer the development and performance of the groups business themselves for election by the shareholders.
The unexpired during the year, see pages 4, 5 and 1419: term of the service contracts of Ian Ferguson, David Lowden the position of the groups business at the end of the year, and Andrew Wood is 2 years and 10 months.
see pages 4, 5 and 56: Details of the number of board and committee meetings held main trends and factors likely to affect the future during the year and attendance by individual directors are development, performance and position of the group, included in the corporate governance statement on page 33. see pages 57 and 1419: key performance indicators, see pages 13: Details on the directors remuneration and service contracts a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing and their interests in the shares of the company are included the group, see pages 2325 and 8184: in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on environmental matters and policy, including the impact pages 4046. of the groups business on the environment, see pages 2829: Directors indemnity employee matters and policy, see pages 27 and 28: Article 133 of the companys Articles of Association social and community issues and policy, see pages 26 the Articles provides, among other things, that insofar and 28: and as permitted by law, every director of the company or any information about persons with whom the company has associated company may be indemnified by the company contractual or other arrangements which are essential to against any liability.
the business of the company, see pages 7 and 49.
On 30th June 2006 and 30th April 2007, the company executed deed polls for each of the then and all future Results and dividends Chairmen, executive and non-executive directors of the The financial statements set out the results of the group for the company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries respectively.
year ended 31st December 2009 which are shown on page 54.
The indemnities granted under these deed polls constitute The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.5 pence per qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force.
of 6.5 pence per ordinary share paid in October 2009, makes a total dividend for the year of 20 pence 2008: 20 pence The board believes that it is in the best interests of the group to per ordinary share.
Subject to the approval by shareholders provide these indemnities to its directors in order to ensure that of the recommended final dividend, the dividend award to it attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive shareholders for 2009 will total 33.9 million.
If approved, terms of employment in line with the market.
48 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report continued or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal In addition, the company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
Share capital and control The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, to the extent not covered elsewhere in the of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Directors report, include the information set out in the Restrictions on transfer of securities in the company paragraphs below.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Rights and obligations attaching to shares company, except: Subject to applicable statutes in this section the Companies that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by Acts, any resolution passed by the company under the laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, shares may be pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services issued with such rights and restrictions as the company may by Authority whereby certain employees of the company ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or require the approval of the company to deal in the so far as it does not make specific provision as the board may companys ordinary shares.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other The company is not aware of any agreements between holders shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of the board.
Voting Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a Amendment of Articles of Association general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, the Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case companys shareholders.
of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the Appointment and replacement of directors exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this The directors shall be not less than two and, if the proposed purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which resolution to adopt new Articles of Association is passed at the the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Annual General Meeting, there shall be a maximum of twelve Restrictions on voting directors.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or The company may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or and or maximum number of directors.
Under the Articles, other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains a director shall not be required to hold any shares in the unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice company.
Directors may be appointed by the company by as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the company or dinary resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by with information concerning interests in those shares required the board holds office only until the next following Annual to be provided under the Companies Acts.
General Meeting of the company and is then eligible for The company is not aware of any agreements between holders reappointment.
The board or any committee authorised by the of securities that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold any employment or executive office for such period and Dividends and other distributions on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke or The company may by ordinary resolution from time to time terminate any such appointment.
declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the board.
Subject to the Companies Acts, the board may pay At every Annual General Meeting of the company any director interim dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever who has been appointed by the board since the last Annual the financial position of the company, in the opinion of the General Meeting, or who held office at the time of the two board, justifies its payment.
If the directors act in good faith, preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at they will not be liable for any loss that any shareholders may either of them, or who has held office with the company, other suffer because a lawful dividend has been paid on other shares than employment or executive office, for a continuous period which rank equally with or behind their shares.
of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself for reappointment by the The board may withhold payment of all or any part of members.
The company may by special resolution remove any any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office companys shares from a person with at least a 0.25% interest of a director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served and the board resolve to accept such offer: ii his resignation with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after is requested by all of the other directors and all of the other failure to provide the company with information concerning directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has interests in those shares required to be provided under the been suffering from mental ill-health and the board resolves Companies Acts.
that his office be vacated: iv he is absent without the Variation of rights permission of the board from meetings of the board whether Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class of or not an alternate director appointed by him attends for six shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders consecutive months and the board resolves that his office is of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by a law from being treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution a director: vii he ceases to be a director by virtue of the passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those Companies Acts: or viii he is removed from office pursuant shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an to the companys Articles.
adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding 49 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Powers of the directors the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees Subject to the companys memorandum of association, or former employees or their dependants: the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given the interests of persons whether or not identified who may by the company by special resolution, the business of the become beneficiaries in the future: and company will be managed by the board who may exercise considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or all the powers of the company, whether relating to the social nature.
management of the business of the company or not.
In particular, the board may exercise all the powers of the Significant agreements There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets present and future and terminate upon a change of control of the company, such as uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements, and employees share plans.
None of these are and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the company or of any third party.
deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole except for the groups 420 million Revolving Facility Agreement dated 26th June Securities carrying special rights No person holds securities in the company carrying special 2005, the 200 million Revolving Facility Agreement dated rights with regard to control of the company.
25th August 2008, and the US$250 million US Private Placement Note Purchase Agreement dated 25th May 2006 Rights under the employee share scheme and the US$259 million and 25 million US Private Placement As at 31st December 2009, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, Note Purchase Agreement dated 24th November 2009.
These agreements contain change of control provisions which, if as trustee of the Davis Service Group Employee Benefit Trust, held 1,447,409 shares on trust for the benefit of the executive triggered, could limit future utilisations, require the repayment directors and employees of the group.
A dividend waiver is of existing utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of terms.
in place in respect of Applebys shareholding and Appleby In addition, there exist agreements between the company currently abstains from voting the shares but it may, upon the and its directors and certain senior employees which provide recommendation of the company, accept or reject any offer for compensation for loss of office or employment due to a relating to the shares in any way it sees fit, without incurring takeover bid.
Copies of executive directors service contracts any liability and without being required to give reasons for its are available to shareholders for inspection at the companys decision.
In exercising its trustee powers Appleby may take registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Further all or any of the following matters into account: details on directors service contracts are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 4046. the long-term interests of beneficiaries: the interests of beneficiaries other than financial interests: Substantial shareholdings As at 25th February 2010 the company had been notified, pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Silchester International Investors Limited Direct 33.8 19.9 Prudential plc Direct 25.0 14.7 Sanderson Asset Management Limited Direct 8.8 5.1 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Direct 6.8 4.0 Newton Investment Management Limited Direct 5.2 3.1 Share capital Annual General Meeting As at 25th February 2010, the companys authorised share The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at capital consisted of 219,645,253 divided into 732,150,842 11.00 am on Friday 30th April 2010 is being sent separately ordinary shares of 30 pence each and one deferred share of to shareholders with this report.
The venue for the meeting 15 pence of which there were 170,688,899 ordinary shares is the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
During the 12 months to 31st December 2009, 269,962 Authority to allot shares ordinary shares of 30 pence each in the company were issued Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options under shares up to approximately two-thirds of the companys issued the terms of The Davis 1998 Share Option Plan, The Davis ordinary share capital in accordance with guidelines issued Service Group Savings Related Share Option Scheme and by the ABI on 31st December 2009 of which approximately The Davis Service Group Sharesave Plan 2006 for a total 5% may be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
This additional one-third authority, above the usual one-third As at 31st December 2009, the authority granted to the authority, may only be used for rights issues.
In any three-year company for the purchase of up to 17,038,500 ordinary period, no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be shares in the company remained in force and unused.
issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
The two resolutions numbers 10 and 11 are set out in full in the notice of Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 20 Annual General Meeting.
No issue will be made which would to the financial statements.
effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
50 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that company to purchase its own shares.
A special resolution number 12 will be proposed at the April 2010 Annual they may be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do General Meeting.
so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit Annual General Meeting or a date 18 months from the date information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they auditors are aware of that information.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting remains valid until the next Going concern Annual General Meeting.
The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are If the company were to purchase any of its own shares, it may set out in the Business Review on pages 229.
The financial consider holding them as treasury shares as an alternative to position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and cancelling them, subject to the authority allowed by resolution borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on number 12, provided that the total number of treasury pages 53108.
In addition note 17 to the financial statements shares does not at any one time exceed 10% of the companys includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for issued share capital.
Companies are permitted to hold shares managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: purchased on the market in treasury with a view to possible details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to cancelling them.
its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
This would allow the company to re-issue the shares held in treasury quickly and cost-effectively and would provide the The group has considerable financial resources together company with additional flexibility in the management of its with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
The share price on 31st December 2009 was 399.60 pence: the company currently holds 1,025,000 ordinary As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well shares in treasury.
placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The board is committed to managing the companys capital After reviewing the above and making enquiries, the directors effectively and the directors keep under review the option have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group of buying back the companys shares.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt position of the company will be taken into account before the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and deciding upon this course of action.
The directors will only purchase the companys shares on the market if they believe Accounts.
it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Directors conflicts of interest Political and charitable donations There are procedures in place to deal with directors conflicts Financial contributions to a range of charities and good causes of interest arising under Section 175 Companies Act 2006 and during the year amounted to 65,152 2008: 56,372, such procedures have operated effectively during the year.
principally to local charities serving the communities in which the group operates.
There were no political donations during Directors responsibilities the year 2008: nil.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements contained within this Annual Report and the directors confirmations required under DTR 4.1.
12 are set out on Creditor payment policy Whilst the group does not follow any published code or page 51. standard on payment practice, it continues to be the groups By order of the board policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed David Lawler in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Company Secretary Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 25th February 2010 31st December 2009 were 9 days 2008: 10 days and for the groups major trading companies were 29 days 2008: 44 days.
