16 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 operations review continued BlackLining Demo Plant investment near Brno, Czech coNTiNENT Republic providing a local service By providing a local service, we will strengthen our position and ability to attract new customers in both czech Republic and Slovakia.
delivering organic 1 revenue growth Summary of key achievements k Flexible working with our customers k commenced clean room operations BlackLining Demo in Poland Peter Havus Operating brand in the Continent region k Good sales development in czech Regional Managing director Republic and commenced operations in Slovakia Key financial performance indicators 2009 2008 Priorities for the next year Revenue h 245.2m 226.2m k Prioritise sales efforts in the most Adjusted operating profit h 32.7m 29.2m profitable market segments including Adjusted operating margin h 13.3% 12.9% clean room Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts k increase sales development in new More detail about non-financial KPIs in the corporate responsibility section of this report: territories following Brno plant opening Pages 2629 our continent region covers operations in Germany, Austria, Holland, Poland, Services provided by country czech Republic and Slovakia with 30 plants and almost 3,800 staff.
We continue to have leading market positions in Holland, Germany BlackLining Demo Poland, German Healthcare and an improved position in German Workwear.
Austria Revenue in our continent region grew 8% to 245.2 million 226.2 million with a Holland 12% increase in adjusted operating profit to 32.7 million 29.2 million.
At constant Poland currency, revenue was 2% down but adjusted operating profit increased by 2%.
czech Republic The adjusted operating margin increased to 13.3% from 12.9% due to the Slovakia improvement in profitability of German Healthcare and continued progress in our workwear and facilities businesses.
The region has delivered good free cash flow reflecting the better profitability and 30 3,800 the improvement in textile management.
Number of plants we operate Number of people we employ Workwear Facilities Healthcare Hotels and restaurants Sales and production 17 Statements Governance Financial statements investors BlackLining Demo German Healthcare delivered an adjusted Holland is our most competitive market operating margin of close to 5% following but we have worked with our customers the restructuring to reduce the cost base to manage the volume downturn undertaken in 2008, which is a significant and with high service standards have improvement from the 2% margin in maintained a relatively low customer 2008.
Adjusted operating profit doubled loss rate.
We have also reduced costs by from 2008.
The market has remained improving efficiencies.
As a result, the difficult as a result of over capacity and business delivered a solid performance, continued pressure on price and we have maintaining revenue and adjusted yet to see a positive impact from the operating profit in line with last year.
announcement of a minimum wage structure for our industry.
As a result, Maintaining revenues were down 6% compared with 3 operational efficiency 2008 and we have taken further action by restructuring our operations in the south Summary of key achievements of Germany.
our focus continues to be on k improved German Healthcare margin reducing costs to align with lower volumes close to 5% and the difficult pricing environment, and BlackLining Demo k Bu ild of Brno plant almost complete to continue improving the margin over the medium term.
We are prepared to take k implemented central warehousing further restructuring action as necessary.
to reduce textile purchases in a number our Healthcare business in Austria of territories continues to perform well in a stable Priorities for the next year market, growing revenues and improving its margin.
k M aintain operational flexibility while reducing cost base k capture further procurement delivering on 2 opportunities acquisitions k improve textile control using latest RFid Summary of key achievements chip technology k Restructured cost base of the investments we have made Revenues in Poland grew 5% during 2009.
The economy was impacted in the second Priorities for the next year half of the year with local GdP growth k integrate the Klarner workwear rates falling to 1% and unemployment acquisition and utilise stronger market levels above 10%.
We have reacted quickly BlackLining Demo position to increase sales development and have reduced the cost base and maintained the adjusted operating profit.
our German Workwear business With the plant investments we have made maintained its revenues and adjusted in Poland in recent years, we will be able operating profit with a good proportion to accommodate higher volumes when of food and catering customers as well the market recovers.
as public services, which have remained We are making good progress in the relatively stable despite the difficult czech Republic and Slovakia where our environment.
The acquisition of the salesforce are delivering new workwear workwear business of Klarner will further and mat customer contracts which will strengthen our position for longer term be serviced from our new plant near Brno, growth in this fragmented market.
czech Republic when this is operational This business adds to our existing plant in March 2010. footprint and has a good customer base which complements our portfolio.
We are investing in multi-reader chip technology to offer a more efficient and better service This will allow us to monitor more accurately our customers textile usage, helping to improve their logistics and reducing their cost.
