06 | The Davis Service Group Plc report and accounts 2009 Our business BlackLining Demo beneFIts oF scale and Focus to ensure that we delIver to our custoMers.
an immediate priority has been we also continue to innovate and improve description of our business to enter the baltic region and central our customer service, moving the focus our business is predominantly focused on europe where the new accession countries from product supply to delivering service textile maintenance.
we provide service to the eu should see higher levels of solutions.
service quality is an essential solutions to source, clean and maintain the economic growth over the long term than component of both winning and retaining textiles that our customers need to keep their western european counterparts.
contracts with significant benefits arising BlackLining Demo their operations running, but which may from a stable contract base.
the development of outsourcing be non-core to their activities.
we allow in these countries in markets such as all our teams are focused on delivering them to free up capital and resources textile maintenance has substantial pricing that recovers the increases in while we leverage our buying power, potential in our view.
In 2008 we entered our cost base and enables us to invest logistics systems and our considerable these markets by acquisition of mat to support the growth our customers are know-how to provide a more cost companies in the case of the baltics and by expecting.
our business teams continually effective service than their in-house preparing for a greenfield operation in the drive for efficiency and to be the lowest solution.
we acquire and own the textiles czech republic and slovakia.
cost provider in their markets, using our and provide these to our customers on scale, investment and experience.
we also service contracts of varying lengths.
we intend retaining our market leading maintain health and safety as a priority position in the uk and Ireland by ensuring and continually seek to reduce the impact that we maintain our high standards our strategy of our business on the environment.
of customer service through operational we believe in investing in an experienced we believe that by focusing on our core excellence.
with our mature core service management that is capable of managing business we are able to deliver higher offerings, we seek to develop related the detail of our industry.
levels of growth at better margins than activities in which our existing customers our competitors.
we do this by managing will appreciate our service such as the we believe that attractive returns can our service operations efficiently and by expansion of our healthcare franchise be delivered from the right opportunities making the resources available to drive BlackLining Demo into sterile medical consumables clinical to invest in bolt-on acquisitions where our growth strategies using our core areas solutions and decontamination services.
we can leverage our market leading of expertise.
we believe that it is important position and scale to deliver higher levels the different service areas of our business to build market leading positions as this of operational efficiency to the acquisitions offer different opportunities for growth provides scale for our operations and that we have made.
and returns on our investment.
as we creates the opportunity to win new look to invest in and grow our business business at attractive margins and to our enablers we generally give priority to the workwear deliver the benefits of bolt-on acquisitions.
and facilities parts of our business, we have experienced management we are growing the proportion of profits where these opportunities are of more we have market leading positions in mainland europe relative to the uk value to our customers and therefore as we believe mainland europe offers we have new market opportunities more profitable to us.
greater opportunity in our existing we generate good cash flows and have Geographically we will continue to activities.
today the majority of our a sound financial position concentrate on europe.
business is in mainland europe.
In order to manage these growth opportunities we have two management regions our business objectives covering mainland europe: our nordic our experienced management teams region and our continent region, understand their customers, markets which have separate management teams.
they are In growing our european business we commercially focused in order to capture look to enter new markets, which provide the longer term opportunities for organic opportunities for growth.
although the majority of markets in which we operate are largely mature and the outsourced service is generally well established, the opportunities for volume growth and winning of new contracts remain.
07 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors BlackLining Demo Healthcare our markets k Managed linen supply to hospital ward we discuss below the key drivers in our k sterile textiles supply to operating theatres business segments.
k supply of single use textiles, dressing packs and sterile consumables % of group revenue k decontamination of surgical instruments 2009 2008 our healthcare customers benefit by 1 Workwear 33% 33% 5 1 outsourcing the wide range of textiles 2 Facilities 13% 10% that it takes to keep a hospital or care 3 Healthcare 30% 29% 4 facility running.
4 Hotels and restaurants 18% 19% 2 healthcare customers are seeking to 5 Sales and 3 manage the demographics of an ageing production 6% 9% our contracts population, pressures on country budgets for healthcare and the need to maintain we have a diverse contract base across Workwear rigorous standards of hygiene for infection many business sectors, customer industries k Managed supply of dedicated garments to the individual worker control.
these are all drivers for outsourcing and geographies.
In each of our larger k supply, fitting, selection advice of non-clinical services such as textile markets we have over 30,000 contracts.
k automaBlackLining Demo ted dispensing solutions maintenance.
our clinical solutions no contract accounts for more than 1.5% business in the uk has extended the In our workwear divisions our customers of group revenue.
area of service we provide to healthcare benefit from the general business trend contracts in workwear are typically for customers into decontamination of to outsourcing of non-core services and three years whereas in the facilities part surgical instruments and provision of sterile we continue to see, even in our more of the business they vary from one to consumables.
both these services are based developed markets, a significant proportion three years.
In hotels and healthcare our around the operating theatre and together of sales to customers who have never customers contract primarily for between with our reusable textile service support previously had a service virgin customer.
three and five years or, in the case of the theatre staff in efficient preparation In our newer markets, for example, surgical decontamination, up to 15 years.
they also leverage poland, we see much higher levels of virgin nearly all contracts provide for annual our expertise in logistics management customers and this is helping drive the cost increases.
In the case of healthcare and processing.
higher levels of growth overall.
In all our contracts, this is typically based on agreed markets we are targeting new customers external indices.
our billing of workwear Hotels and restaurants sectors for our service, whether this is services is usually at a fixed monthly k Managed linen supply to local community services whose staff amount, whereas in other parts of k product innovation provide care services to people at home, our rental business we bill for volume k workwear supply and chefwear which has been a growing segment in supplied or usage.
our most significant k restaurant textile services denmark and sweden in particular, or in supplier contracts are for textiles and building a c BlackLining Demo lean room in poland to service hotel and restaurant linen services are utilities.
our sourcing strategy has the electronics or pharmaceutical industries.
the most mature part of the business with developed in this area in recent years as we expand into new countries we will higher levels of outsourcing than in other with more of our supply direct from focus on workwear activities, as this part of segments in the markets in which we manufacturers in low cost country our business is higher margin.
our hotel and restaurant services operations.
In this way we are able trends are also important to the growth are limited to four markets, uk, Ireland, to capture more of the scale benefits in this market.
In these markets of supply across the different countries we are able to use our scale to generate of the group.
as supply is typically in us Facilities the economies that are needed to deliver dollars we buy currency forward in order k dust control mat supply: basic and logo mats benefits to our customers at margins to hedge any currency exposures.
k washroom cabinet and roller towel supply that are acceptable to us.
we continue to we also have significant contracts for k washroom supply seek appropriate pricing for our efforts and energy supply into our plants for gas and k wiper supply generally to increase our margins so that we electricity.
It is our policy to seek fixed term can reinvest in capacity that we believe will our facilities business provides a highly and price contracts, where appropriate, be necessary to meet the long-term growth valued service to our customers at relatively to cover supply for the financial year.
low invoiced value which is also higher margin to us.
density of customer contracts we also have facility arrangements with our Sales and production relationship banks.
More information on these is important to ensure the distribution arrangements can be found in note 15 of the k product design and fitting costs are absorbed over sufficient revenue group financial statements on page 77. k production to keep these costs low to the customer.
k product sourcing the key markets in which we provide this k retail outlets service we have more limited operations, our direct sales businesses complement our for example, in the uk are relatively textile maintenance businesses and focus on under developed and provide good scope specific niches, being garments and personal for long-term growth.
this is a sales led protection equipment primarily to smaller business and a higher proportion of first businesses in sweden or linens and soft year revenue is taken in sales cost than furnishings to hotel customers in the uk.
in other parts of our business.
