35 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Members of the Board with effect from 1st March 2010 Peter J Ventress 49 Kevin Quinn 49 Christopher R M Kemball 63 Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Peter was appointed Chief Executive in Kevin was appointed Finance Director in Christopher was appointed to the board January 2010 on the retirement of Roger May 2005.
He has previously held senior in January 1999 and subsequently Dye.
He previously spent 10 years in finance positions within Amersham plc.
became non-executive Chairman of the senior management positions in Europe Prior to 1997, Kevin was with board and the nomination committee in and Canada in the office products , latterly as a May 2005.
He is a Vice Chairman of distribution industry with Corporate partner in its Prague office, having also Hawkpoint Partners Limited and also a Express N. V. becoming Chief Executive worked in the USA and France.
non-executive director of Scott Wilson in 2007.
In 2008 Peter was appointed Group plc.
head of all Staples activities outside the United States and Canada.
John D Burns 65 Iain Ferguson 54 David S Lowden 52 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director John was appointed to the board as a Iain was appointed to the board on David was appointed to the board on non-executive director in 1987.
Previously he was Chief 1st March 2010.
Previously he was Chief Chief Executive of Derwent London plc, Executive of Tate and Lyle plc from 2003 Executive of Taylor Nelson Sofres PLC a consulting partner of Pilcher Hershman to 2009.
Previously he worked for from 2006 to 2009 having previously & Partners and a former Chairman of Unilever, where he held a number of held the positions of Chief Operating the Westminster Property Owners senior positions including Executive Officer and Group Finance Director for Association.
Chairman of Birds Eye Walls and Senior the company.
He has also held senior Vice President, Corporate Development.
financial positions within international He is also a Non-Executive Director of companies such as A. C. Nielsen and Balfour Beatty plc, Greggs plc and is a Federal Express.
member of the Advisory Board to  LLP.
Per H Utnegaard 50 Andrew R Wood 58 David A Lawler 46 Non-executive director Non-executive director Company Secretary Per was appointed a non-executive Andrew was appointed to the board on David joined the group in 1995 and was director in January 2005 and Chairman 1st March 2010.
He has been Group appointed Company Secretary in May of the remuneration committee in May Finance Director since January 2001 of 2005.
He has previously held senior 2005.
He is currently President and CEO BBA Aviation plc from which he will be finance positions with Thorn EMI plc of Swissport International Ltd, previously retiring on 29th April 2010.
He was and KPMG, and has worked extensively ran his own consultancy firm in previously Group Finance Director of outside of the UK including Denmark, Switzerland, and prior to that was Racal Electronics PLC.
He is a chartered Germany, Ireland and the USA.
Wholesale Director of Alliance management accountant.
Key Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Member of the executive board 36 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement continued External audit Audit committee report Composition The audit committee manages the relationship with the external auditor on behalf of the board.
It considers the The audit committee met three times during 2009. reappointment of the external auditor each year, as well as The committee comprised Philip Rogerson committee Chairman, Ren Schuster and Per Utnegaard.
All members remuneration and other terms of engagement, and makes a recommendation to the board.
The audit committee is of the committee are non-executive directors and are satisfied with the auditors effectiveness and independence considered by the board to be independent.
and has not considered it necessary to require an independent The Chairman, the Finance Director, the group Internal Audit tender process.
The last competitive audit tender was in 2006, Manager and senior representatives from the external auditors when  LLP was appointed by the attend each meeting at the request of the committee board on the recommendation of the audit committee.
At least once each year, the committee meets with There are no contractual obligations that restrict the audit the external auditors without executive management present.
committees capacity to recommend a particular firm for From time to time, the committee Chairman also meets in appointment as auditor.
private session with the group Internal Audit Manager without Iain Ferguson, who will join the board on 1st March 2010, is a any other member of management being present.
member of the Advisory Board to  LLP, The board considers that the committee Chairman has the companys auditors.
Accordingly, he will not, inter alia, sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge join the audit committee or take part in any board matters the committees duties.
In particular, Philip Rogerson is a regarding the appointment of the external auditors.
Chartered Accountant and from 1992 to 1998 he was the The group follows a pre-approval policy for the provision of Finance Director and then the Deputy Chairman of BG plc.
In most instances, the individual threshold From 1st March 2010 the Chairman will be Andrew Wood for any non-audit services is 50,000.
Other accounting firms who is a Chartered Accountant and has been a Group Finance may be used for larger, non-audit services, including taxation Director of a listed company for over ten years.
and consultancy advice and due diligence in relation to The group provides an induction programme for new audit significant acquisitions.
The objective of maintaining a policy committee members and, where required, provides ongoing on non-audit services is to ensure that the provision of such training to enable all the committee members to carry out their services does not impair the external auditors independence duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the audit or objectivity.
The external auditors cannot be engaged to committee, its terms of reference and expected time p erform any assignment where the output is then subject to commitment by members and an overview of the groups their review as external auditors.
business, including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
Ongoing training includes attendance at formal The following are specifically prohibited: conferences and briefing by external advisers.
appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or The board expects the audit committee members to have an contribution-in-kind reports: understanding of: broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: the principles of, content of, and developments in financial book-keeping services related to accounting records reporting including the applicable accounting standards or financial statements: and statements of recommended practice: design and implementation of financial information systems: key aspects of the groups operations including corporate internal audit outsourcing services: policies, group financing and systems of internal control: legal and other services unrelated to the audit: or matters that influence or distort the presentation of management functions including human resources.
accounts and key figures: and the role of internal and external auditing and risk The total sum invoiced to the group by its external auditors management.
for non-audit services provided in 2009 was 0.3 million 2008: 0.2 million.
The total sum invoiced by them for Role and authority audit services in respect of the same period was 1 million The audit committees principal function is to enable the board 2008: 0.9 million.
to monitor the integrity of the groups financial reports and to manage the boards relationship with the groups external Internal audit auditors.
Its other functions include reviewing and monitoring The group employs internal auditors with skills and experience i the financial reporting process, ii the annual audit, iii the relevant to the operations in the group and supplements effectiveness of the groups internal controls, iv the groups this with external resources where necessary.
Internal audit internal audit and risk management systems, and v the activities are co-ordinated centrally by the Internal Audit independence of the external auditor and its provision of Manager who is accountable to the audit committee.
All group businesses are now required to comply with the The audit committee is required to report its findings to the groups financial control framework that sets out minimum board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action control requirements.
In 2010 an assessment will be completed or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the of the groups compliance with the control framework and risk steps to be taken.
If deficiencies are noted improvements in controls will be made to achieve compliance across the group.
The committees terms of reference include all relevant matters required by section 7.1.
3 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the relevant Combined Code and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
37 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Role and authority Internal audit conducts reviews of the businesses focused on The nomination committee is responsible for board succession risk areas noted through monitoring of the groups risk profile planning and makes recommendations to the board on the and requests from the executive board and audit committee.
appointment and reappointment of all directors.
It also keeps The audit committee receives regular reports on the results under review the succession planning for senior executives.
of internal audits work and monitors the status of The terms of reference of the nomination committee were recommendations arising.
The committee reviews annually updated and approved by the board on 26th August 2008 and the adequacy, qualifications and experience of the groups are available on the companys website or upon request from internal audit resources and the nature and scope of internal audit activity in the context of the groups risk management the Company Secretary.
In 2009 the committees review was Activities in 2009 supplemented by an external review and evaluation undertaken During 2009 the committees main activity has involved the by Ernst & Young.
selection and appointment of a new Chief Executive following the decision by Roger Dye to retire in December 2009.
Overview of the actions taken by the audit committee to Recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart were retained, discharge its duties a detailed candidate specification was prepared, and the Since the beginning of 2009 the audit committee has: committee interviewed a number of internal and external reviewed the December 2009 annual report and financial candidates before the board appointed Peter Ventress.
statements and the June 2009 half-yearly financial report.
Following the decision of Philip Rogerson to retire from the As part of the review the committee received a report from board with effect from 28th February 2010 on becoming the external auditors on their audit of the annual report Chairman of Bunzl plc, the committee performed a detailed and financial statements and review of the half-yearly evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience on the financial report: boar considered the output from the group-wide process used d which resulted in the decision to recruit three new to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: non-executive directors.
Recruitment consultants Spencer reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal controls Stuart were retained, candidate specifications were prepared, and disclosures made in the annual report and financial and the committee interviewed a number of candidates statements on this matter: before the board decided to appoint Iain Ferguson, David reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be Lowden and Andrew Wood with effect from 1st March 2010. undertaken by the external auditors: During the year the committee has also: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the December 2009 report and financial statements assessed thoroughly the extent to which current nonand June 2009 half-yearly financial report: executive directors remain independent and, in particular, reviewed its own effectiveness: the independence of John Burns who has served on the monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups board for more than nine years: and internal audit function, which included reviewing the considered the membership of the boards committees.
findings of the independent report by Ernst & Young: agreed a programme of work for the groups Internal Remuneration committee Audit function: Full details of the committees composition, role, authority received reports from the Internal Audit Manager on the and activities are set out in the report on directors work undertaken by internal audit and management remuneration on pages 4046, which will be subject responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General during the year: Meeting on 30th April 2010. undertaken an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditors Internal controls and risk management and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This included The board has responsibility for establishing, maintaining and consideration of a report on the audit firms own quality reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control procedures: control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements in place for staff than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute in financial reporting or other matters and, where required, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ensuring independent investigation: and These systems of internal control are regularly reviewed by required that the committee pre-approved all non-audit the board.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal services to be performed by the groups external auditors control, which accord with the revised Turnbull Guidance that exceeded pre-set thresholds.
2005, and which operated throughout the year and up to The committee Chairman reports on each committee meeting the date of approval of the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, at the following board meeting.
are as follows: Open culture Nomination committee report The board considers that the group operates a risk-aware Composition culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates The nomination committee met three times during 2009 the early identification of problems and issues, so that and comprised Christopher Kemball committee Chairman, appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise any impact Philip Rogerson, Ren Schuster, Per Utnegaard, John Burns on the business.
Four of the six members of the committee are regarded by the board as independent.
38 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 Corporate governance statement continued Financial reporting Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and In addition to the general internal controls and risk management management processes described above, the group also has There is an ongoing process for the identification, evaluation specific internal controls and risk management systems to and management of the most significant risks faced by the govern the financial reporting process and preparation of group.
This process includes the following: the annual financial statements.
These systems include clear a defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation policies and procedures for ensuring that the groups financial of authority: reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated formal authorisation procedures for all investments with accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: requirements.
These are comprehensively detailed in the Group clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial F inance Manual, which is used by the businesses in the management for the maintenance of good financial controls preparation of their results.
Financial control requirements are and the production and review of detailed, accurate and also set out in the Group Finance Manual Minimum Control timely financial management information: Framework, with a compliance assessment to be completed in a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes 2010.
Management representations covering the compliance a rolling three-year planning process, an annual budget with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information approved by the board, review of monthly variances against are also collated on a biannual basis.
budget and quarterly reforecasting of annual performance: provision to management and the board of relevant, Detailed accounts for each reporting entity are prepared accurate and timely information including relevant key monthly, comprising income statement, cash flow and balance performance indicators, based on reliable management sheet in a manner very similar to the year end and half yearly information systems which are continually being improved reporting processes.
These are subject to management review and updated: and analysis in the financial review cycle as set out above.
monthly reports to the board from the Chief Executive, Whistleblowing Finance Director and the managing directors of the Nordic, The group has a system by which staff may, in confidence, Continent and UK and Ireland regions: raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting regular business unit management board meetings or other matters.
During 2009 the system was operational periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance throughout the group in 15 countries.
Due to the diversity Director, executive board meetings and company board of our workforce the system operates in 25 languages.
meetings at which existing, new and evolving operational, Procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed financial and other risks are discussed, and appropriate in a confidential manner.
The Company Secretary is required actions to manage these risks are agreed and followed up: to report to the audit committee biannually on the integrity discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and identified and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in conclusions reached.
During 2009 group employees used this reports to the executive board and company board: system to raise concerns about four separate issues, all of the maintenance of business unit risk registers: which were appropriately responded to.
the maintenance of a group risk register which sets out the most significant risks facing the group and the actions Shareholder engagement being taken in mitigation, regularly updated and reviewed Shareholders play an important role in the groups governance by the board, and summarised in the Business Review on by electing the directors, by monitoring and rewarding their pages 2325: and performance and by engaging in constructive dialogue with a structured and approved programme of internal audit the board.
visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous programme of The Chairman, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for ensuring improvement.
that there is ongoing and effective communication with shareholders.
If shareholders have any concerns, which contact In December 2009 the board took the opportunity to review through the normal channels with the Chief Executive, the and update the business unit risk management guidance notes Finance Director or the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for that they had last distributed during 2007. which contact is inappropriate, then the Senior Independent Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of Director is available to them.
To that end, both the Chairman internal control and the Senior Independent Director make themselves The board and audit committee requested, received and available, when requested, for meetings with investors on reviewed reports from senior management, its advisers, group issues relating to the groups governance and strategy.
internal audit and our external auditors in order to assist the During 2009 more than 65 separate meetings and telephone board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the conference calls were held with major shareholders, by groups systems of internal controls.
either or both of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for As expected, these focused primarily on the groups trading improvement in internal controls are continuously identified operations and immediate prospects.
Where significant views were expressed, either during or following the meeting via our and action plans are devised.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management and the board.
brokers, these were recorded and circulated to all directors.
The board considers that none of the areas of improvement All the directors at the time of the 2009 Annual General identified constitute a significant failing or weakness.
Meeting attended that meeting and it is expected that all board members will attend the Annual General Meeting on The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the 30th April 2010 and will be available to meet shareholders.
groups internal controls in accordance with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
39 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors For the 2010 Annual General Meeting, to facilitate easier voting for our shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form, we will enable them to vote electronically through our Registrars website.
The company is committed to increasing shareholder value and communicates its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in an accurate and timely manner.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the company communicates with its shareholders by way of the annual report and accounts and the interim results announcement.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements and by press releases which appear on the companys website.
The company also holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the companys operations.
The Annual General Meeting takes place in London.
Formal The Executive Board notification is sent to shareholders approximately six weeks in From left to right: advance and in any event at least 21 days before the meeting.
Steve Finch, Kevin Quinn, Peter Ventress, David Lawler, Other general meetings may also be convened from time to Peter Havus, Christian Ellegaard time on at least 21 days notice or where certain requirements are met, including prior approval by shareholders, by way of special resolution, on 14 days notice.
The annual general meeting gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the key committees and other directors.
Details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed together with explanatory notes are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders and is also available on our website www.
Any member attending the Annual General Meeting has the right to ask questions.
Any such question relating to the business will be dealt with at the meeting, except in certain circumstances including if it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the good order of the meeting to do so or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Shareholders attending the meeting are informed of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
Other information required by the FSAs corporate governance rules Certain information required by the FSAs corporate governance rules to be set out or referred to in this corporate governance statement is set out in the Directors Report, on pages 48 to 50, under the headings: Restrictions on transfer of securities in the company: Amendment of Articles of Association: Appointment and replacement of directors: Powers of the directors: Substantial shareholdings and Purchase of own shares.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 25th February 2010
