Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman.
John Robertson Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Mr an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Robertson has over 30 years experience in Bankers and was managing director of investment management in a variety of roles, Guernsey International Fund Managers Limited, and is currently Head of Governance at Ignis part of the Barings Financial Services Group, for Investment Services Limited with responsibility 8 years prior to its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over for the risk, compliance and internal audit departments.
He is a 30 years experience in the field of offshore banking and fund director of Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative Funds administration and is a past Chairman of the Guernsey plc, and Ignis Liquidity Fund plc which are all open ended Investment Funds Association.
He is Chairman of Close Fund investment companies with variable capital listed on the Irish Management Portfolios II PCC Limited and Investec Capital Stock Exchange.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Accumulator Trust Limited, both listed in London.
Keith Dorrian Andrew Wilson Keith Dorrian is a resident of Guernsey.
He has Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was over 30 years financial experience in the formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as offshore finance industry.
He joined chief surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as Manufacturers Hanover in 1973 before moving a director in 1987.
He was a founder director to First National Bank of Chicago in 1984 and of Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and has been ANZ Bank Guernsey in 1989.
He joined Bank of Bermuda, chief executive officer since its flotation in 1994.
Rugby Estates Guernsey in 1999 and was appointed Guernsey head of global plc was listed in the Official List and subsequently moved to the fund services and managing director of the banks Guernsey fund Alternative Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
administration company in 2001, retiring in December 2003.
He is currently chairman of International Public Partnerships Limited, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is a director of a number of funds and fund management companies including a property company listed on Euronext, Amsterdam.
Christopher Fish Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He recently retired as Managing Director of Close International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over 30 years experience in offshore banking, asset management, treasury, trust services and fund administration.
Mr Fish is the non-executive Chairman of Close International Asset Management Holdings Limited and Close International Bank Holdings Limited.
He is also a director of nine other UK listed funds including a European commercial property fund.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 14
