18 | The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2009 operations review continued BlackLining Demo delivering organic UK ANd iRELANd 1 revenue growth Summary of key achievements k S trong growth in Healthcare k S trong growth in clinical Solutions k G ood level of new sales in Workwear Priorities for the next year k deliver on sales pipeline in Healthcare and clinical Solutions k E stablish higher margin niche markets in Workwear k T ransfer customer volumes to our decontamination centres our revenue declined 2% to 394.9 million BlackLining Demo 401.2 million, including an improved contribution of 60.2 million 55.4 million Steve Finch Key operating brand in the UK region from clinical Solutions and decontamination Regional Managing director services, which is reported as a separate segment.
Adjusted operating profit was Key financial performance indicators 2009 2008 down 6% to 37.6 million 40.2 million Revenue x 394.9m 401.2m including 2.2 million 3.8 million for clinical Solutions and decontamination Adjusted operating profit x 37.6m 40.2m services.
The core textile maintenance Adjusted operating margin x 9.5% 10.0% businesses have performed well Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts in a challenging year, managing to More detail about non-financial KPIs in the corporate responsibility section of this report: hold margins close to last year with Pages 2629 revenue down 3% to 334.7 million 345.8 million and profits down Services provided by country 3% to 35.4 million 36.4 million.
The decline in profit is primarily related to lower volumes in hotel linen and we have seen a 3% growth in adjusted UK BlackLining Demo operating profit overall in the other parts of the business.
The plants in operation ireland number 49, with 9,300 staff in the region.
in the early months of the year we saw like for like volumes down significantly in our hotel business but as the year has progressed we have seen the rate of 49 9,300 decline reduce to 3% in the last quarter.
Number of plants we operate Number of people we employ We have benefited from the early action we took on costs, both in reducing fixed costs and securing energy prices below current levels, but also in rebuilding work flows, textile management and transport around more efficient models.
While profits and margins were down in 2009, the business cost model is well positioned as we enter 2010.
Through this difficult year, we have continued to focus on customer service and this has been recognised in price increases that have covered cost inflation.
We will continue to work with our customers to ensure appropriate pricing for 2010.
Workwear Facilities Healthcare Hotels and restaurants Sales and production 19 Statements Governance Financial statements investors BlackLining Demo Servicing increased volumes in Healthcare with consistent standards We have seen good growth in Healthcare linen services, working with our customer to broaden and improve our services.
We have a strong record in winning and retaining contracts.
There was significant economic upheaval delivering on Maintaining 2 3 for our business in ireland.
As a result, there acquisitions operational efficiency was a small reduction in profits as cost Summary of key achievements Summary of key achievements cutting largely kept pace with the reduction in revenues.
2010 is expected to be again k Start up of contracts k Rebuilt workflows in Hotel linen challenging.
Longer term we have good for decontamination k Transferred capacity from Hotel linen BlackLining Demo market positions, including a market leading k organic growth in clinical Solutions to Healthcare facilities business, and we have added k Reduced investment in textiles clean room services in 2009.
These are Priorities for the next year both key growth sectors for the group.
k deliver profit and return Priorities for the next year opportunities in clinical Solutions k Servicing full contract volumes and decontamination on decontamination k capturing the full year benefit of the our healthcare division reported good changes we have made in 2009 growth in revenue of 8% with continued increases in like for like volumes, winning The clinical Solutions and decontamination new contracts and an excellent record business has grown revenues well in retaining contracts up for re-tender.
and in line with our expectations.
Profits also moved ahead and we have Sterile consumables and operating theatre redirected capacity from hotels towards textiles grew 9%, broadening the strong the growing hospital volumes.
The NHS relationships we have with our customers.
still provides one quarter of hospital The challenges for our business in the start laundry from in-house operations and up of the two decontamination contracts we believe there are further significant BlackLining Demo this year, which added 2.1 million of opportunities for the NHS to achieve revenue, have been significant with the additional savings from outsourcing.
transition of service over a relatively short Revenue of our workwear business held period of time to four new service centres flat in the first half of 2009 but declined from the six hospital trusts, involving in the second half, despite continued 16 hospitals and a significant number good level of new sales, as the average of primary care units.
There have been number of wearers in customers contracts delays in transitioning of service from reduced in response to the general some hospitals against the original plan economy.
cost cutting measures largely to make sure that our customers are ready mitigated the reduction in volumes but to accommodate the changes in service the outlook for the business remains patterns and we are ready to deliver to challenging against a cautious view our service standards.
Start up losses of of the economic outlook.
2.1 million were incurred in 2009, which was greater than the amount we had planned.
We continue to work with our customers on the transfer to full volumes in 2010 and we are focusing on our operations to ensure that we move this service into profitability as quickly The benefits of outsourcing to as possible.
our customers driving new sales despite the economic difficulties we have seen around 10% increase in the number of new workwear contracts we have sold compared to 2008.
The benefits of efficiency and cost saving remain important selling points for our customers.
