Investment Management Team Ignis Investment Services Limited Ignis are the Investment Managers of the Group.
Ignis is a leading asset manager and currently has approximately 67.5 billion of assets under management.
Ignis has a long history of managing commercial property and over the years has built up a high level of knowledge and experience in this asset class.
Ignis has the advantage of a strong and well-resourced team that is dedicated to searching out value actively in the property sector.
The team manages a number of property portfolios, totalling around 2.8 billion.
ROBERT BOAG BSc Dip Ipf MRICS RHONA MCCRANOR BSc Hons MRICS Investment Manager Property Asset Manager Property Investment Experience: 24 years Property Market Experience: 12 years Robert is the lead manager of the Company.
He Rhona graduated from the University of graduated from the University of Paisley in 1986 Glasgow in 1994 with a BSc Hons, followed with a degree in Land Economics.
In 1987 he by a Post Graduate Diploma at Strathclyde became a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Business School in Urban Development in 1995.
She obtained a He has several years experience operating as a property Diploma in Urban Property Appraisal from the University of asset investment manager throughout the UK with Scottish Paisley in 1998 and began work within CB Richard Ellis Limiteds Metropolitan and Haslemere Estates.
He joined Ignis Investment Financial Services and Professional departments and became a Services Limited in January 2006. member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 2000.
Rhona thereafter joined Donaldsons in 2002 and then Lambert SHEILA MILLER MA Hons MSc Dip Ipf MRICS Smith Hampton in 2004 where she was an Associate Director.
Asset Manager Property She joined Ignis Investment Services Limited in 2008.
Property Market Experience: 13 years Sheila graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1996 with a Master of Arts Hons degree and also obtained an MSc in Urban Property Appraisal in 1997 from the University of Paisley.
She worked within the retail & development agency at Jones Lang LaSalle Limited from 1997.
In 2000 she joined DTZ Debenham Tie Leung as a surveyor within the professional department and then the retail agency.
She joined Ignis Investment Services Limited in 2007.
She is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and a member of the British Council of Shopping Centres.
Sovereign Centre, Weston-super-Mare UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
