Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the UK Investment Policy Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary year ended 31 December 2009. shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a Results and Dividends diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually delegated the The Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended management of the property portfolio, and other services, to 31 December 2009 as follows: Ignis Investment Services Ltd, the Managers.
"Payment date Rate per share Investment risks are spread through the Company and its Fourth interim for subsidiaries the ""Group"" investing in a diversified portfolio of prior period Feb 2009 1.3125p freehold and long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial properties."
The Group First interim May 2009 1.3125p intends to invest in income producing investments.
The Group Second interim August 2009 1.3125p will principally invest in three commercial property sectors: Third interim November 2009 1.7262p office, retail and industrial.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum 4 month period weighting limits in the principal property sectors.
It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay dividends as The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of interim dividends.
The Directors do not therefore recommend a its total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed final dividend.
A fourth interim dividend of 0.8988p was paid investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, on 26 February 2010 to shareholders on the register at held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, 5 February 2010. in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
Gearing, calculated as borrowings as a percentage of the Group's gross assets, may not exceed 65 per cent.
It is the Principal Activity and Status Boards current intention that borrowings will be limited to a The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net assets at the time carried on business as a property investment company.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels from the Managers and is responsible for setting the Listing Requirements gearing range within which the Managers may operate.
As at Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to 31 December 2009 the Company had total borrowings of continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property 42.1m, representing 5.8 per cent.
of the year end net assets.
investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed Business Review presentation from the Managers together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of the Company and compliance The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship with the investment restrictions during the reporting period.
An of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December 2009 corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk is contained within the Managers Review on pages 8 to 11 and a management.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom full portfolio listing is provided on page 13. are non-executive, can be found on page 14.
The Companys performance in meeting its objectives is measured against key performance indicators as set out on page 16.
A review of the Companys returns during the year, the position of the Company at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15 Report of the Directors Continued Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties Management of Assets and Shareholder Value The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated the commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to management of the investment portfolio to Ignis Investment the commercial property market in general, but also the Services Ltd. particular circumstances of the properties in which it is invested The Company invests in properties which the Managers believe and their tenants.
More detailed explanations of these risks and will generate a combination of long-term growth in income and the way in which they are managed are contained under the capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on headings of credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future capital 16 to the accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant risks through continual review of the portfolio, active asset strength, lease length and initial yield.
management initiatives, and carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering into new lease agreements.
All Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: 31 December 2009 is contained on page 13 and further Economic - inflation or deflation, economic recessions and analysis can be found in the Managers Review.
At each Board movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, meeting, the Board receives a detailed presentation from the and also its bank borrowings.
Managers together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of the portfolio during the reporting period.
Strategic - incorrect strategy, including sector and property allocation and use of gearing, could all lead to poor The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of returns for shareholders.
managing the discount of share price to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves Regulatory - breach of regulatory rules could lead to marketing and, to this end, the Managers meet with current and suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, potential new shareholders, and with stock broking analysts who financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In addition, communication of quarterly portfolio information is Management and control - changes that cause the management provided through the Companys website.
and control of the Company to be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Key Performance Indicators Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the Financial - inadequate controls by the Managers or third Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key party service providers could lead to misappropriation of performance indicators are as follows: assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Net asset value total return against the Investment Property with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index.
Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
Operational - failure of the Managers accounting systems or disruption to the Managers business, or that of third party Dividend per share and dividend yield.
service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2009 are set The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through out on pages 3 and 4. continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull Guidance.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 19.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 16 There are no service contracts in existence between the Directors Company and any Directors, but each of the Directors was The Directors who held office during the period and their appointed by a letter of appointment, which sets out the main interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2009 terms of his appointment.
The letters of appointment of the all of which beneficial were: Directors are available for inspection at the Companys As at 31 December 2009 registered office during business hours and for fifteen minutes 25p Ordinary Shares held prior to the Annual General Meeting and at the meeting itself.
Christopher Hill 20,000 Management Keith Dorrian 10,000 Ignis Investment Services Limited provides management services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between the Christopher Fish 10,000 Company and Ignis Investment Services Limited in respect of John Robertson 10,000 management services provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
Andrew Wilson 20,000 The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered the investment performance of the Company and the capability There have been no changes in the above interests between and resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment 31 December 2009 and 29 March 2010. performance.
They also considered the length of the notice period of the investment management contract and the fees The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property payable to the Managers, together with the standard of the Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited and UK other services provided.
Commercial Property Nominee limited, the Companys wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the continuing appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is The Directors received the following emoluments in the form of fees: in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the strength and quality of the management team and the Managers Year to commitment to the sector.
31 December 2009 Substantial Interests in Share Capital Christopher Hill 33,750 At 29 March 2010 the following holdings, representing more Keith Dorrian 28,750 than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been Christopher Fish 30,250 notified to the Company.
John Robertson 23,750 Number of Andrew Wilson 28,750 Ordinary Shares Percentage Held 000s Held The Directors are remunerated for their services at such rate as Phoenix Life Limited 451,595 38.11% the Directors shall determine provided that the aggregate Phoenix and London amount of such fees shall not exceed 200,000 per annum.
Assurance Limited 328,857 27.75% The fees will be reviewed annually and may be increased in line with usual market rates.
Mr Robertsons directors fees are State Street Nominees 48,078 4.06% payable to his employer Ignis Investment Services Limited.
Nortrust Nominees 40,071 3.38% The above table includes an additional one off fee of 5,000 paid to each of the Directors, excluding Mr J Robertson, in respect of additional services undertaken for the placing of 151,544,000 new 25p Ordinary Shares on 30 October 2009.
This additional fee is included within the total launch costs associated with this share issue.
In accordance with the articles of association of the Company each of Mr K Dorrian, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson retired by rotation and, being eligible, offered themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting held on 22 May 2009.
Each of these Directors was duly re-elected at this Annual General Meeting.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 Report of the Directors Continued matters over which the Managers have authority and the limits Corporate Governance beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, Guernsey does not have its own corporate governance code including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and, as a Guernsey registered company, the Company is not and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for the required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys 2008 the Code.
However, it is the Companys policy to investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant comply with best practice on corporate governance that is information in advance of Board meetings.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates Arrangements in respect of corporate governance have within clearly defined written terms of reference which are therefore been made by the Board, which it believes are available on request and comprises all of the Directors other appropriate for the Company.
Except as disclosed in the than Mr John Robertson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in following paragraph, the Company complied throughout the discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and period with the provisions of the Code.
Since all the Directors Interim Accounts: the system of internal controls: and the terms are non-executive, the provisions of the Code in respect of of appointment of the auditors together with their Directors remuneration are not relevant to the Company, remuneration.
except in so far as they relate to non-executive Directors.
Consequently there is no requirement for a separate It is also the forum through which the auditors report to the Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered by the Board of Directors and meets at least twice a year.
The Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors In view of its non-executive nature and the requirement of the are appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and Articles of Association, all the Directors, with the exception of independence of the auditors is safeguarded by obtaining John Robertson, retire by rotation at least every three years, the assurances from the auditors that adequate policies and Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff appointed for a specified term as recommended by provision are independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, A.
7.2 of the Code, nor for a Senior Independent Director to be employment, investment and business relationships other than appointed as recommended by provision A.
in the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy John Robertson as an Associated Director retires by rotation concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditors every year.
which governs the types of work from which the additions are The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which excluded.
The Committee reviews the scope and results of the Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent of objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit the Companys Managers.
New Directors receive an induction fees.
Such fees amounted to 92,844 2008: 29,231 for the from the Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, and all year ended 31 December 2009 and related principally to the Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
30 October share issue, 73,050 of which was charged against reserves.
The remaining 19,794 related to taxation services.
The The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A 2008 fees mainly related to taxation services.
Notwithstanding management agreement between the Company and its such services, the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP Managers, Ignis Investment Services Limited, sets out the to be independent of the Company.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Directors Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 4 4 3 3 1 1 K Dorrian 4 4 3 3 1 1 C Fish 4 2 3 2 1 0 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a n a n a A Wilson 4 4 3 3 1 1 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held in Guernsey during the year and the number attended by each Director.
In addition to the above, there were 16 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 18 The Management Engagement Committee comprises the full Environmental Policy Board other than Mr John Robertson and reviews the The Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these activities together with the terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
have both direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has endorsed the Managers own environmental policy, which is During the year the performance of the Board, committees and to work in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants and individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman improvements in environmental performance and conducting was evaluated by the other Directors.
There have been no regular interviews.
Directors appointed during the year.
Internal Controls Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which Going Concern it is exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the are set out in the Investment Policy on page 15 and the Risk and period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Risk Uncertainties review on page16.
In addition, Note 16 to the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in comparison to its stated objective and against comparable At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since concern assessments have been performed.
The Board have the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and to the agreed investment policy and approved investment Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to such policy and when performing their going concern assessments.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Board The assessments performed include review of the valuation and receives reports from the Secretary in respect of compliance liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and of matters and duties performed on behalf of the Company.
solvency and cash flow projections under both normal and The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
In addition the Company has no contingent The Board has decided that the systems and procedures liabilities.
employed by the Investment Managers and the Secretary, Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment including their internal audit functions and the work carried out the Board has concluded that there are no material by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company resources to continue in operational existence for the is therefore considered unnecessary.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial Relations with Shareholders statements.
The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the Company.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 Report of the Directors Continued Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further extraordinary general meeting to be held within six On 17 March 2009, the Company bought back 28,571,429 of months of the first extraordinary meeting to consider the its own Ordinary Shares of 25p at a price of 52.5p per share.
winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of the Company These shares are held as Treasury Shares at the year end.
The which offers all Shareholders the opportunity to realise their total number of shares currently being held in treasury is investment.
If any such continuation resolution is passed, this 41,445,142. discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not The Directors have authority to buy back up to 131,912,000 apply for a period of two years thereafter.
Ordinary Shares being 14.99 per cent.
of the number of Issue of Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares in issue as at 22 May 2009 being the date on which such authority was granted by special resolution and will On 30 October 2009 the Company issued 151,544,000 New seek annual renewal of this authority from Shareholders.
The total issued share capital of the buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey Company at year end consists of 1,031,544,000 Ordinary law and within guidelines established from time to time by the Shares of 25p of which 41,445,142 are held in treasury.
The Board, which will take into account the income and cash flow total number of shares with voting rights at the year end is requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of 990,098,858. any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Auditors Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their asset value of an Ordinary Share, as last calculated, where the re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, to be paid must not be more than five per cent.
above the and each has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit for the five business days before the purchase is made.
information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury shares for future re-issue and re-sale, or transfer, or may cancel Approved by the Board on 29 March 2010. any such shares.
During the period when the Company holds shares as treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Christopher M. W. Hill Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as Director treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold, or transferred at prices which are not less than the published net asset value of Christopher Fish an Ordinary Share.
Director It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority will be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of an Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent.
below the published net asset value for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more.
In the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent.
for 90 dealing days or more, following the second anniversary of the Companys most recent continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the Directors will convene an extraordinary general meeting to be held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If this UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 20
