UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 30 Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2009 Principal activities The Directors present their annual The principal activities of the Group during the year were report and audited financial the development and management of student residential accommodation in the United Kingdom.
Details of the statements for the year ended Companys principal subsidiaries are set out on page 78.
Operating and financial reviews The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following sections, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Financial performance pages 15 to 18 Key performance indicators page 28 Risks and uncertainties pages 26 and 27 Further information on the Groups operations and financial affairs that are in addition to the requirements of the Business Review are set out on pages 2 to 29 of this report.
Profit and dividends The Group loss for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 34.9 million 2008: 115.9 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year 2008: nil pence per ordinary share.
No interim dividend was paid during the course of the year 2008: 0.83p per share.
Directors Each of Messrs N P Hall, S R H Beevor, R Walker, M C Allan, J M Tonkiss and J J Lister served as Directors throughout the year.
Mr G K Maddrell and Mr N A Porter respectively acted as Chairman and Deputy Chairman until 15 May 2009, on which date they both stood down from the Board.
On 21 January 2009, Mr P M White was appointed to the Board, as an additional Non-Executive Director of the Company and as Chairman Designate.
Mr White became Chairman of the Board on 15 May 2009.
Each of Messrs R S Walker and J M Tonkiss, who retire by rotation, offer themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting of the Company which has been convened for 18 May 2010 the Annual General Meeting.
Brief biographies of all the Directors, including those standing for re-election, are set out on page 29.
Those biographies describe the reasons why those of the Directors standing for re-election should be re-elected.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below.
Details of Directors share options are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Ordinary shares of 25p each Ordinary shares of 25p each Directors 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 1 M C Allan 838,053 363,006 2 J M Tonkiss 362,392 148,832 3 J J Lister 393,715 87,121 4 P M White 10,000 N P Hall 17,849 9,849 S R H Beevor R S Walker 10,000 UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 31 1 Mr Allans interests include 594,484 ordinary shares conditionally Donations awarded to him pursuant to the terms of the Companys Long The Company made no political donations during the course Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The number of such shares that of the year but made charitable donations of 15,000 to will unconditionally vest in Mr Allan pursuant to those awards UNIAID Foundation 2008: 15,000 and 15,000 to Students will be determined following the end of the relevant three-year in Free Enterprise 2008: 5,000.
The Company also donated measurement periods.
55 accommodation bursaries across the UK for the 2008 09 2 Mr Tonkisss interests include 327,269 ordinary shares academic year to UNIAID Foundation equating to 275,936 conditionally awarded to him pursuant to the LTIP.
The number 2008: 247,500. of such shares that will unconditionally vest in Mr Tonkiss In addition, the Company made donations to a number of charities pursuant to those awards will be determined following the end through its matched funding policy.
Pursuant to that policy, the of the relevant three-year measurement periods.
Company agrees, subject to certain conditions and limits, to match 3 Mr Listers interests include 293,043 ordinary shares the donations made to charities by employees through fund raising conditionally awarded to him pursuant to the LTIP.
The number activities of their own.
During the year, those matched funding of such shares that will unconditionally vest in Mr Lister pursuant donations of the Company amounted in aggregate to 5,673 to those awards will be determined following the end of the 2008: 6,206. relevant three year measurement periods.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any During the year the Company maintained its policy of agreeing and other Group company.
Since December 2009, there have been abiding by supplier payment terms.
The Group has not followed no changes in the Directors interests in shares.
any recognised code for payment practice.
As at 31 December 2009 the Groups trade creditors were equivalent to 27 days Changes in share capital purchases 2008: 32 days.
The Company does not have any During the year, 2,108 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted trade creditors 2008: nil.
and issued pursuant to the exercise of options granted under The UNITE Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme at Health and safety a price of 188p per share.
In addition, a total of 427,926 ordinary The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and healthy shares were allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of options working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all its granted under The UNITE Group plc Unapproved Company Share employees and to provide such information, training and Option Scheme 373,229 at a price of 146.5p per share: and supervision as they need for this purpose.
The Group continues to advance its development of a transparent, On 9 April 2009, the Company also allotted and issued 2,041,059 scalable and robust safety management system.
ordinary shares of 25p each at a price of 92.75p per share pursuant to the Groups LTIP and on 6 October 2009, a further 32,819,972 ordinary shares of 25p each were allocated and issued Employment policies pursuant to a placing and open offer at a price of 250p per share.
The Company encourages employee involvement and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Substantial interests in the share capital Groups activities and financial performance.
To that end, the UNITE Employee Forum has been established, consisting of of the Company elected representatives from across the business.
As at 3 March 2010, those shareholders, other than Directors, who had notified the Company of a disclosable interest amounting The UNITE Code of Ethics the full text of which can be found to 3% or more of the total voting rights in the Company were on the Companys website, confirms that the Group seeks at all as follows: times to conduct its business in accordance with, and to ensure that each of its employees and Directors adheres to, the highest Shareholder standards of business and personal ethics.
An independent Percentage of Share whistle-blowing channel also enables employees to report any Capital incidents of improper or illegal conduct of which they may become FMR LLC 5.18 aware whilst, if they wish, maintaining their anonymity.
Cohen & Steers Inc 4.98 The UNITE Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan was introduced J P Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.92 in 2005 with the aim of being better able to structure remuneration Lloyds TSB Group plc 4.90 packages so as to retain, motivate and reward selected Executive AXA S. A.
It is anticipated that a new SAYE option scheme to replace the scheme originally put in place Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd 4.80 in 1999, in which all employees will be eligible to participate, Legal & General Group plc 3.95 will be introduced during the course of the year.
FIL Limited 3.66 The Company operates a non-discriminatory employment policy.
Orange European Property Fund NV 3.62 Full and fair consideration is given to applicants for employment Perennial Investment Partners Australia Limited 3.61 from the disabled where they have the appropriate skills and Allianz SE 3.22 abilities and to the continued employment of staff who become disabled.
The Company places particular emphasis on and encourages the continuous development and training of its employees and the provision of equal opportunities for the training and career development of disabled employees.
Governance 2945 UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 32 Directors report continued The Companys objects Auditors Prior to the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006, the A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors provisions regulating the operations of the Company were set of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual out in the Companys memorandum and articles of association.
The Companys memorandum contained, among other things, the objects clause which set out the scope of the activities the Disclosure of information to Auditors Company is authorised to undertake.
This clause was drafted The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this to give a wide scope.
Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduced the constitutional is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors significance of a companys memorandum.
The Companies Act are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he 2006 provides that a memorandum will record only the names of ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any subscribers and the number of shares each subscriber has agreed relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys to take in the company.
As of 1 October 2009, the objects clause auditors are aware of that information.
and all other provisions which are contained in the Companys memorandum are deemed to be transferred to the Companys Annual General Meeting articles of association.
The Company is now permitted to remove The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at these provisions by special resolution.
The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30 a. m. on 18 May 2010.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on pages Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that unless a companys 93 and 94. articles provide otherwise, that companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to have objects clauses.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, Resolution 6 For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant the Directors clause together with all other provisions of its memorandum which, authority to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights by virtue of the Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the of the Companys articles of association with effect from 1 October Company, up to an aggregate of nominal value of 13,302,275 2009.
Resolution 9 a confirms the removal of these provisions for representing approximately one third of the issued share capital of the Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove the the Company as at 3 March 2010.
In accordance with guidelines statement currently in the Companys memorandum of association issued by the Association of British Insurers, this resolution also regarding limited liability, the revised articles of association the grants the Directors authority to allot further equity securities up New Articles also contain an express statement regarding the to an aggregate nominal value of 13,302,275, again representing limited liability of shareholders.
approximately one third of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 March 2010.
This additional Articles which duplicate statutory provisions authority may only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
Provisions in the Companys existing articles of association the Existing Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Resolution 7 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than in line with the Companies Act 2006. accordance with statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing Authorised share capital and unissued shares shareholders in proportion to their holdings, in respect of the The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a allotment of shares in connection with any rights issue or other company to have an authorised share capital and the New Articles issue by way of rights and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal reflect this.
Directors will still be limited as to the number of shares amount of 1,995,341 representing approximately five per cent they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues of the issued share capital of the Company as at 3 March 2010. to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share schemes.
The Board has no current intention of exercising either of the authorities conferred by the above resolutions.
Unless revoked, Redeemable shares varied or extended, those authorities will expire at the conclusion Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to issue of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the terms and following 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, whichever manner of redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors is the earlier.
to determine such matters instead provided they are so authorised In addition to the share allotment authorities referred to above, by the articles.
The New Articles contain such an authorisation.
two further items of special business will be proposed at the Annual The Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it General Meeting.
The first Resolution 8, is a special resolution to did so the Directors would need shareholders authority to issue allow general meetings of the Company, other than annual general new shares in the usual way.
meetings, to be called upon not less than 14 clear days notice, Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate and sub-divide shares, in accordance with the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The and reduce share capital Directors will only utilise this authority to hold meetings on less Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required specific than 21 clear days notice where it considers it to be in the best enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its own shares, to interest of shareholders.
The second Resolution 9, also a special consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to reduce its share capital resolution, relates to the abolition of the Companys authorised or other undistributable reserves as well as shareholder authority share capital and the adoption of revised articles of association to undertake the relevant action.
The Existing Articles include these following the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006 enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a company in October 2009.
The principal changes are as follows: will only require shareholder authority to do any of these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly certain of the relevant enabling provisions have been removed in the New Articles.
UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 33 Other than certain of the Groups banking facilities, there are no Suspension of registration of share transfers significant agreements to which the Company is a party that The Existing Articles permit the Directors to suspend the effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Act 2006 share following a takeover bid.
Nor are there any agreements between transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The power the Company and its Directors or employees providing for in the Existing Articles to suspend the registration of transfers is compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs inconsistent with this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has because of a takeover bid.
been removed in the New Articles.
Details of proposals to be put to the Annual General Meeting in Notice of general meetings relation to the power of Directors to issue shares in the Company The Companies Act 2006 requires that the notice of a companys are set out above under the heading Annual General Meeting.
general meeting now contains certain additional information, and The Directors have no authority to buy-back the Companys this is reflected in the New Articles.
Adjournments for lack of quorum By order of the Board Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders A D Reid Rights Regulations, general meetings adjourned for lack of quorum Secretary must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
3 March 2010 The Existing Articles have been changed to reflect this requirement.
Proxies Under the Companies Act 2006, proxies are required to vote in accordance with instructions given to them.
Where the same proxy is appointed by more than one shareholder, and the instructions given to that proxy are to vote in different ways, that proxy will be entitled to vote more than once on a show of hands to reflect the instructions given to him.
This is reflected in the New Articles.
General Generally the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles with that used in the model articles for public companies produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
A copy of the New Articles, and the Existing Articles marked to show the changes being proposed, will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Osborne Clarke, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5EB during usual business hours on any week day until the Annual General Meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 9.15 a. m. on the day of the meeting until its conclusion.
Disclosures The Companys share capital is made-up of one class of ordinary shares, which carry no restrictions on transfer or voting rights other than as set out in the Companys articles of association.
Details of those persons who have significant holdings of shares in the Company are set out on page 31 under the heading Substantial interests in the Share Capital of the Company.
No holder of shares in the Company has any special rights with regard to the control of the Company, nor does the Company have an employee share scheme, shares in relation to which have rights with regard to the control of the Company.
There are no agreements known to the Company between holders of shares in the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights in relation to the Company.
The Company has no rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors or regarding the amendment to the Companys articles of association, save as set out in the Companys articles of association.
