UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 04 Emily Bowes Court, Tottenham, London Emily Bowes Court is the first student village to be built in Case study: 1 London by UNITE.
The 54 million development was built on vacant industrial land in Tottenham Hale, London on Development Management a 1.5 acre site.
Opened by the Mayor of Londons Housing Advisor, Richard Blakeway, in September 2009, it provides 687 en-suite study bedrooms for students.
The student accommodation is part of a major mixed-use Our development programme is regeneration scheme known as Hale Village, linked by research led, based on where and footbridge to Tottenham Hale tube and only three stops to the university precinct with easy access to Central London.
how students want to live.
By utilising UNITEs modular construction techniques, the team are able to reduce build time and waste, as well as ensuring consistently high quality standards throughout the development.
Emily Bowes Court is let to the University of the Arts through a one year nominations agreement.
Located in a popular student area in Bath, Charlton Court University of the Arts students provides a range of cluster flats and studios exclusively to at Emily Bowes Court, N17, first year students studying at Bath Spa University through a one of UNITEs new buildings nominations agreement.
Opened in September 2009 by local to open in 2009.
Liberal Democrat MP, Don Foster, the development provides much needed professionally managed, safe, secure student accommodation in a residential area.
Sited next to a Grade II listed building and in the conservation area of Bath, the 22 million student accommodation scheme required sensitive planning and design and has helped alleviate Charlton Court riverside housing pressures in the surrounding area.
living in Bath for students at Bath Spa University.
UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 05 Students at home with UNITE UNITE Property Management delivers the letting and 2 Case study: management of the Groups portfolio across the UK providing a market leading accommodation experience for all its customers.
Property Management UNITE provides customer support from initial viewing, through property booking, to students ongoing living experience.
Its unique and market-leading online sales and marketing platform means that rooms can be viewed and booked online, We provide a professional letting with virtual tours of UNITEs properties available on our website.
and management service Our accommodation is built to high specifications, with a throughout all our buildings.
contemporary design, and a wide choice of style from studio rooms through to flatshares for up to seven people.
UNITE caters for a wide range of budgets starting from 129 per week in London and 63 per week in Aberdeen and our rental agreements are inclusive of utility bills, contents insurance and in-room internet access so students dont have to budget for unexpected bills.
UNITEs online booking service with easy access All properties are well located for student needs, typically found via the internet.
close to the city centre and or university campus.
Safety and security are provided through city management teams with 24 hour support from their professional security teams and dedicated maintenance teams.
This city based operating platform is fully supported by a national contact centre for account queries, sales and 24 hour on call assistance.
UNITE continues to build and maintain its close relationships with Living with your friends universities and other higher education stakeholders across the UNITE style.
UK, supporting their evolving student accommodation needs.
Introduction 0111 UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 06 Unite House, Bristol As one of UNITEs earliest additions to its portfolio, Unite House Case study: in Bristol opened its doors for the first time in September 2000 3 and has been a popular choice for students during the last Asset Management 10 years.
Due to its location and nominations agreement with the University of Bristol, UNITEs Asset Management team identified further potential to improve the offering at Unite House to its customers while at the same time achieving renegotiated rents We proactively manage our assets and an uplift in valuation of the property.
During the summer of 2009, UNITE completed a comprehensive refurbishment of all 395 beds at Unite House, and as a result successfully raised rents by 26%.
The nature of Unite Houses tenancy arrangement with the University of Bristol meant that it did not meet the required criteria of USAF and was therefore actively marketed to external investors.
Following the completion of its refurbishment in September, Refurbished in 2008 to a high a standard, Culver House is a Unite House was sold in November 2009 for a cash popular choice with students consideration of 21.5 million at a net initial yield of 6.07%.
UNITE has retained a 25 year lease of the asset, based on an annual rent starting at 1.4 million and subject to annual increases linked to RPI, maintaining the management, brand presence and a strong relationship with the University of Bristol.
For the 2009 10 academic year, UNITE expects the property to generate a net operating income of 1.5 million, meaning that it Refurbished in 2009, Unite will retain a profit rent of approximately 0.1 million from House was sold on a sale the operation of the asset for this academic year.
and lease back agreement to M&G Secured Property Income Fund.
UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 07 Gibson Street, Glasgow In December 2009, USAF announced the successful and over Case study: subscribed conclusion of its capital raise, delivering 167 million 4 of new equity inclusive of UNITEs co-investment.
A substantial Fund Management proportion of these commitments were secured from investors who have not previously invested in the Fund.
Following the equity raise the number of unitholders in the Fund is now over 100.
We are recognised as the leading A proportion of the proceeds were used to acquire a portfolio co-investing manager in the of five assets from UNITE for 95 million at a net initial yield of 6.35%.
The portfolio comprised 905 bed spaces across five student accommodation sector.
properties in London, Edinburgh, Exeter and Glasgow, further enhancing the Funds portfolio of high quality, direct let student accommodation.
The disposals to USAF enables UNITE to continue its focus on growth through site acquisitions and the progression of future developments, whilst also maintaining an economic interest in Chalmers Street is UNITEs the income generating properties held within USAF through its latest development in co-investment stake in the Fund.
Edinburgh, offering purpose built, professionally managed The aggregate size of the Funds portfolio following the accommodation to 251 students acquisition in December 2009 is over 1 billion with 19,500 studying in the area.
bed spaces in 58 properties across 18 UK markets.
Chalmers Street was sold to USAF in December as part The Fund now has the capacity to invest 200250 million in its recent portfolio acquisition acquisitions from UNITE or other third parties.
The Fund will also from UNITE.
complete a programme of refurbishments of certain properties As part of USAFs latest portfolio within its existing portfolio.
acquisition, Exeter Trust House The ability to attract significant investment into the sector through is conveniently located and offers accommodation to 123 USAF further demonstrates the institutional appetite for a diversified students studying in Exeter.
direct let portfolio of direct let student accommodation.
