UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 14 Business review continued The Browne Review of Higher Education funding and Student To profit from the management of the Groups operational Finance, commissioned by Lord Mandelson, is also due to report portfolio.
Returns take the form of rent receivable from whollylater in 2010.
There is a reasonable expectation that this could lead owned properties less interest payable on associated to an increase in the cap on tuition fees currently set at 3,225 per borrowings: dividends receivable from the Groups various annum.
However, any impact will be contingent on the result of the stakes in funds and joint ventures and management fees election later in 2010. receivable from third party investors in these funds and joint ventures.
These sources of income are required to cover our It is the Companys strong belief that, although the Higher central overhead costs and we measure profitability in the form Education budgetary pressures raise inevitable uncertainty about of net portfolio contribution.
student numbers, this shift in funding patterns will actually create new opportunities for UNITE.
Regional variances will begin to Historically, the Groups business model has been to develop new emerge and UNITEs research-led approach, in-depth market purpose built accommodation in carefully selected locations and knowledge and sector leading position will ensure it will be well let the property directly to students.
Thereafter, it has sold the placed to take advantage of these opportunities.
UNITE will also completed and let assets to funds or joint ventures managed look to work closely in partnership with certain universities who are by the Group and in which it has a significant minority stake.
looking for innovative ways to fund and manage their existing and The Group has then reinvested a proportion of the proceeds into ongoing accommodation requirements in order to reduce costs new development activity and continued to provide management and who will be attracted by UNITEs financial strength and services across the entire operational portfolio for the long term.
operational reputation especially compared to the majority We refer to this as the Groups developer and co-investing of its peers.
Alongside the changing nature of the demand for student Looking forward, this will continue to form a significant proportion accommodation, there is an ongoing shift in the supply landscape.
of the Groups growth strategy.
However, as the sector matures, Whilst there is less activity from traditional competitors, the relative we believe that the level of new development opportunities offering outperformance of the sector over the past few years has resulted sufficient shareholder returns may start to reduce.
In addition, we in more capital targeting the sector.
This is being seen most believe that the dramatic change in the economic environment evidently through increased demand for investment properties affords us the opportunity to grow our business in other ways that subject to long term leases and for development sites in London will generate strong recurring income.
that have planning permission in place.
Taking the above into account we have identified four drivers of By contrast a number of our traditional competitors are managing growth in the medium term: high levels of debt and gearing which has led to lower levels of 1.
Targeted development of new purpose built student investment activity from these parties.
We will continue to monitor accommodation the position of these highly leveraged competitors closely in order to establish whether any investment opportunities might emerge.
In October 2009 the Group raised 82 million of equity from its shareholders to pursue a London focused development strategy.
We are committed to achieving strong returns from our Business strategy development activities and believe that, in London, this is best UNITE is the UKs leading developer and co-investing manager of achieved through pursuing off-market transactions rather than purpose built student accommodation, having developed and now competitive bidding situations, where competition is currently very operating a portfolio of approximately 38,300 purpose built bed high and pricing levels above what the Group is prepared to pay.
From a financial perspective, the Groups objectives are twofold: The Group is making solid progress in its identification of appropriate London sites at present.
However, having given careful To increase, over time, the value of its student accommodation consideration to prospective returns, we also believe that related investments.
These take the form of properties owned opportunities are beginning to emerge in a small number of outright by the Group and stakes owned by the Group in various carefully selected locations outside London where we already have joint ventures and funds which themselves own student an existing presence and infrastructure and where a demandaccommodation properties operated by the Group.
We seek to supply imbalance remains.
grow value through proactive asset management, increasing the annual rent of completed investment properties, and through the We plan to develop between 4,000 and 5,000 new bed spaces for targeted development of new properties.
The key measure of delivery and occupation between 2012 and 2014. value of our investments is net asset value NAV per share.
