UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 Looking forward, it is evident that the environment in which UNITE With the exception of the ongoing supply shortfall, the outlook, operates has changed considerably and, indeed, is still changing.
Whilst the growth in the number of Conditions that have existed for much of the past ten years, such applications is continuing, with applications for the 2010 11 as the availability of cheap and abundant debt, rapid growth in academic year up 23% according to UCAS figures released student numbers and university funding and consistent economic on 8 February 2010, there is clear emerging pressure on Higher growth can no longer be assumed for the future.
The Higher Education Funding Council change in environment will also present new opportunities for a announced on 1 February 2010 that university funding would strong financial and operating partner such as UNITE and, using be cut for the 2010 11 academic year by 450 million.
Of this, its sector expertise, the Group is refining its business strategy to 215 million relates to teaching budgets representing a reduction ensure that it is best positioned to exploit these opportunities.
of 1.6% in real terms which we believe is likely to lead to a reduction in the number of UK students being accepted onto Having raised capital at a sensible price and reduced gearing to courses in 2010.
However, a CBRE report into university funding, conservative levels, and unlike the majority of our peers in the issued in February 2010, has estimated that a substantial part of student sector, UNITE and USAF are both now in a good position any fall is likely to be offset by growth in the numbers of overseas to invest in sector opportunities: UNITE specifically by acquiring and post-graduate students and that the net fall in intake will be development sites and USAF by securing direct let investment only between 3,000 and 4,000.
The CBRE report also suggests assets from parties other than UNITE.
We believe that good that because the reduction in student numbers will be thinly spread acquisition opportunities exist as yields for direct let assets an across the UK and that there will be an increased trend for more average of 6.7% for the UNITE portfolio at 31 December 2009 affluent students to attend university, there should only be a limited have not yet contracted to the same degree as yields in the impact on student accommodation in the 2010 11 academic year.
broader commercial real estate sector or for student accommodation assets subject to long term leasing agreements with universities.
However, for good quality assets that are well-managed, direct let rents continue to offer good growth prospects.
This is clearly understood by investors, as demonstrated by the strong take-up for the USAF equity raise in December.
These decisive steps leave UNITE well positioned to take advantage of the opportunities that are emerging from this changing landscape.
The student accommodation market Despite the dramatic deterioration in economic conditions and the financial markets in 2008 and the first half of 2009, the market for student accommodation has continued to demonstrate strong fundamentals with growing demand and limited new supply throughout 2009.
There was a further year of growth in the number of students attending university in 2009 with full time student numbers increasing by 50,000 to 1.55 million.
By contrast, the new supply of beds delivered by corporate providers in the year was approximately 9,000 according to King Sturge thereby adding to the strong demand-supply imbalance prevalent in the UK market.
Orient House, Fulham, London 50,000 Additional university students Business review 1228
