UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 20 Business review continued In order to address the currently high levels of competition for Livocity accommodation for graduates consented land in London, UNITE has focused on securing more In March 2007 the Group stated its intention to pilot a new business, sites off-market from owner occupiers and, as a result, the providing professionally managed rental accommodation for young acquisition of the pipeline is likely to continue into early 2011. professionals in London under the brand name Livocity.
Three Whilst taking longer than previously anticipated to secure sites, this projects, comprising 130 bed spaces, have since been completed approach will provide UNITE with greater opportunity to add value and lettings progressed well.
However, as outlined in the Interim through the planning process.
We will also review existing land Statement, taking into account the severe contraction in available holdings, valued at an aggregate of 33 million at 31 December financing over the past year, the likely continued rationing of capital 2009, excluding sites exchanged for sale, to review the feasibility of for the foreseeable future and the impact of the economic downturn delivering beds in 2011.
Capital expenditure in 2010 will be limited on graduate recruitment, the Group has decided not to extend this to option monies or deposits for land and for construction of any pilot programme further.
The three Livocity assets are now being sites chosen for 2011 delivery and should not exceed 50 million managed as part of our operational portfolio and, as such, there has in aggregate.
been no significant impact on earnings or net asset value.
Banks have, to date, generally played a supportive role to their borrowers but this may well change in 2010.
We will therefore Co-investing asset management maintain an active dialogue with the banks to assess what UNITE acts as co-investing manager of four significant specialist opportunities might arise from distressed assets as the leading student accommodation investment vehicles which it has specialist operator in this sector.
In addition, certain cities outside established, as outlined in the following table: of London are becoming more attractive from a development perspective as land prices continue to fall and the competition 31 December 2009 for sites is considerably less intense.
The Group will continue to UNITE share Property Other Adjusted of adjusted monitor a small number of key target cities outside London and assets Net debt liabilities net assets net assets Vehicle Fund JV Established m m m m m consider acquisition opportunities during 2010.
USAF Fund 2006 1,003 393 14 596 97 UCC JV 2005 370 247 5 118 35 UNITE Modular Solutions OCB JV 2009 124 50 12 62 16 To counter the impact of the recession, and specifically the scaling back of UNITEs development programme, UMS has been actively USV JV 2004 59 40 5 14 7 pursuing a number of opportunities to establish an external market for its modular units, both within and beyond the student UNITE UK Student Accommodation Fund accommodation sector.
It was therefore encouraging to report USAF generated a total return of 8% in 2009, placing it as the sixth earlier this year that UMS had secured its first third party contract best performing fund in the IPD Index for Pooled Funds.
The Fund in 2009, with Berkeley First Student, to supply and install 483 successfully raised 167 million of equity in December 2009 from a modules for a student accommodation development in Oxford.
range of existing and new investors.
Following the completion of The contract has a total value of 5.8 million.
the fund raise, USAF acquired a 95 million portfolio of assets from As outlined in Novembers Interim Management Statement, UNITE, at an average yield of 6.4%, and has capacity to acquire there has been a change in the accounting treatment for UMS approximately 200 million of further assets, based on the Funds as a result of the creation of the OCB joint venture, such that all target leverage, either from UNITE or third parties.
trading is essentially now external and recognised in the income It has been confirmed that the Fund will be treated as a Priority statement.
As the factory is running below full capacity, a net Creditor in relation to its deposit in Landsbanki.
Following the loss of 1.1 million arises which has been taken through the publication of a statement of recoverable assets and liabilities, it income statement.
has been announced that Priority Creditors should recover the Looking forward, the level of UNITE driven production demand for substantial part of their deposit.
The timing of a recovery, and any UMS is likely to remain low until late 2011.
There are a number of legal challenge to the priority status remain as areas of uncertainty external contract opportunities that UMS is pursuing and we would and therefore the full provision of 30 million within the Fund expect to secure a proportion of these in the second half of 2010, remains in place.
UNITEs share of this provision is 6 million.
which will utilise some of the plants surplus capacity.
However, UNITE Capital Cities Joint Venture given the high level of competition in the construction sector at UCC generated a total return of 14% in 2009.
This was impacted present and consequently the pressure on margins, it is likely that by the stabilisation effect in London.
UCC has fully invested all of its UMS will remain loss making in 2010. equity and will continue to focus on the operation of its investment The commercial viability and advantages of UMSs products are assets and any asset management opportunities within its estate.
As a result, we are confident that the Its return on equity since inception in 2005 is 18% per annum.
business will be well placed to benefit from a recovery within the next 18 months.
At that time, with third party demand established and increasing, we will review the Groups long term investment in the business.
