UNITE UNITE Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Board of Directors 29 1.
Stuart Beevor Chairman Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Phil, 60, was appointed Non-Executive Director John, 42, joined UNITE in 2001 as General Remunerations Committee in January 2009 and became Chairman in May Manager of the Groups off-site manufacturing 2009.
The majority of Phils executive career facility and subsequently was promoted to the Stuart, 53, is Managing Director of Grosvenor was spent in the public transport sector, role of Group Development Director in 2004.
Fund Management Limited and a member of during an exciting period of deregulation and In 2006, John was appointed Managing the Board of Grosvenor Group Limited, the privatisation.
He was Chief Executive of National Director of UNITEs Student Hospitality UK international property group, which he joined Express Group plc from 1997 to 2006, leading Business and, in 2007, was made UNITEs Chief in 2002.
Prior to joining Grosvenor, Stuart the business through a period of considerable Operating Officer to reflect his responsibility was Managing Director at Legal and General growth both in the UK and overseas.
Phil is for strategic and tactical business operations Property Limited, having previously held a currently Non-Executive Chairman of Kier throughout the Group.
number of roles dealing with development, Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of investment, property management and unitised Lookers plc.
His experience gained in leading funds at Norwich Union.
Nigel Hall customer focused businesses, both in an Stuart brings a knowledge of property Non-Executive Director, executive and non-executive capacity, will investment, property funds and investor Senior Independent Director and be invaluable to the Group.
demand that uniquely supports the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee and the business in its role as a co-investing Nigel, 54, qualified as a Chartered Accountant 2.
in 1980 with Price Waterhouse, was Group Chief Executive Finance Director of Arcadia Group plc formerly Mark, 37, was appointed to the role of Chief The Burton Group plc until February 2003.
Richard Walker Executive in September 2006, having previously He joined the Burton Group in 1984 and was Non-Executive Director served as Chief Financial Officer for three years.
appointed to its Board in 1997, becoming Richard, 43, is Senior Director at Talk Talk Mark held a variety of other roles in the business Group Finance Director in November of that Telco Arm of Carphone Warehouse Group prior to that, having joined the Group in 1999. year.
Nigel is also Chairman of Countrywide and is responsible for the customer experience As Chief Executive he chairs the Groups Farmers plc and a Non-Executive Director of change programme.
Prior to this role, Richard Leadership Executive and has overall Pinewood Shepperton plc and C&J Clark was Chief Operating Officer of Carphone responsibility for the Groups performance Limited.
With his considerable experience of Warehouse UK, with responsibility for the against its business plan targets, whilst finance and operations in multi-site businesses, Groups 750 UK stores, websites, direct sales continuing to develop UNITEs growth strategy.
Nigel provides strong leadership of the Audit and insurance services.
Managing Director of Carphone Warehouses 3.
Joe Lister European retail business, operating in 14 countries, and UK Sales Director.
He holds Chief Financial Officer a law degree from Nottingham University Joe, 38, joined UNITE in 2002.
He was and trained as an accountant with Coopers appointed as Chief Financial Officer in January and Lybrand.
2008 having held a variety of roles within UNITE prior to that, including Investment Director.
Joe His main supporting strengths are built is responsible for the Groups finances and around his operational expertise and 18 years investment strategy.
As Chief Financial Officer, of experience of having the customer at the Joe is also responsible for the Company heart of every decision made.
secretarial function and Chairs the Groups Major Investment Approval meetings.
Prior to joining UNITE, Joe qualified as a chartered accountant with .
