BUSINESS REVIEW MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW 06 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW AN EXCITING TIME FOR BERKELEY This is an exciting time for Berkeley.
business is suited to scale and this is also The rami cations for the housing market We have in place a clear long-term why Berkeley remains focused in London have been twofold.
Firstly, customer and the South East the market it con dence, essential for a buoyant housing strategy which will enable Berkeley to take advantage of the current market conditions understands intimately.
market, has been badly hit by recession and uncertainty.
Secondly, where customers to acquire new land at the right time in the cycle.
With its financial strength, Berkeley Entrepreneurial by nature, Berkeley is have decided to take advantage of the market highly disciplined in delivery.
Innovative conditions and acquire a new home, the can now selectively acquire the sites to which, using its development expertise, land acquisition and customer-led design, dif culty of obtaining a suitable mortgage it can add most value.
driven by a passion for quality and a valuation and the hardening of the banks strict attention to detail, are matched by lending criteria has introduced a new Over the years, Berkeley has created an rigorous investment appraisal, focused hurdle to completing transactions.
environment where our people have the on maximising value.
By selling forward con dence and freedom to operate to the where possible, the risk is taken out of In this market, Berkeley has achieved best of their ability.
This entrepreneurial the development cycle and production underlying sales reservations with a culture is embedded in Berkeley and is always matched closely to demand.
value approximately 52% below the historic brings with it the relentless attention to average which is based on the last five years detail and passion for quality that fide fines While this long-term strategy remains trading.
The last quarter saw an increase in unchanged, the current emphasis has activity with sales prices stabilising and this the Group.
With these foundations in place, I am delighted with the changes changed during 2009.
The pace and scale is certainly a positive note on which to end of the banking crisis and its global reach the year.
to the Board of Berkeley that have been announced and which represent a natural has placed a premium on those businesses which are agile, can react quickly to Sales prices have fallen approximately evolution and achieve the succession that will ensure the Berkeley Difference changing conditions and which have a 20% since the peak in 2007, although this is carried into the next generation.
For Berkeley, this varies signi cantly according to location.
means acquiring land opportunities at During the year, Berkeley achieved new OPERATING STRATEGY the right prices and using its added value sales reservations at prices on average With an understanding of the cyclical nature developer expertise to optimise these sites 3% below the business plan at the start and complexity of property development, and so enhance value for shareholders.
Build costs have also fallen Berkeleys long-term strategy is to in this market and this has partially enhance value for shareholders by using To date, we have seen only a limited number offset the movement in sales prices.
of opportunities that meet our criteria its development expertise to optimise the returns from its sites, rather than relying and, as a consequence, have continued What is clear is that there continues to be to generate cash since the start of our demand for well located homes built to a on sales volume.
To achieve this Berkeley has created an operating environment and new financial year.
While pricing has been under pressure, this has varied signi cantly from culture within which its greatest assets its people, land and product can attain their full HOUSING MARKET location to location and, in any event, is now Without doubt 2008 09 has been a year stabilising.
The UK market has been ownerpotential.
This is underpinned by an emphasis on financial strength and risk management of correction for the UK housing market, occupier led.
There is a shortage of quality which, when combined with a reputation due in no small part to the well documented family homes, which will only be exacerbated for delivery and quality, provides the right global economic events.
The previous over the coming years as many developers foundation for the business to ourish.
year saw a moderation from the strong have largely ceased new starts and this conditions experienced in 2006 07 with is an area of opportunity for Berkeley.
Berkeley operates at a natural size interest rates rising to 5% and the beginning through its autonomous management of the global financial crisis which saw The investor market has been strongly teams.
The natural size allows the executive the collapse of Northern Rock in the UK overseas-led as the fall in asset prices and Bear Stearns in the US.
This was of has been magni ed by a weakened sterling, to operate at both a strategic and detailed operational level.
course only the beginning as the collapse and investors continue to view property of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 as a good long-term investment With short lines of communication, shook the global banking system to its core, when compared to other asset classes.
leading to unprecedented Central Bank As a result, investors continue to account decisions are made quickly and effectively.
As a consequence, we do not believe our and Government intervention.
for approximately 50% of underlying sales.
indb 06 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:43:17 09:43:17 07 01 02 LAND BANK AT 30 APR 2009 VARIANCE AT 30 APR 2008 Owned 23,572 507 23,065 Contracted 6,407 -1,607 8,014 Agreed 65 -221 286 Plots 30,044 -1,321 31,365 Sales value 7,181m -2,040m 9,221m Average selling price 239k -55k 294k 01 Creating real places for people where they Average plot cost 33k -5k 38k cannot only live but also enjoy going out 02 The entrance to Sugar House Land cost % 13.9% 0.8% 13.1% a stunning refurbishment Gross margin 2,014m -714m 2,728m 03 Our showhomes are created by renowned Gross margin % 28.0% -1.6% 29.6% interior designers 04 Proud to have received The Queens Award Includes 2,809 plots within joint ventures at 30 April 2009 30 April 2008: 2,538 in 2008 There is also strong investor demand for The movements in the land bank during the quality income generating assets such year are the result of a full review of plots, as student accommodation.
revenues and costs to re ect the prevailing market conditions and their impact on the LAND HOLDINGS development of our sites.
We are submitting Berkeley had hoped to see an appropriate revised applications on our sites to ensure softening in the land market during the that planning costs and obligations re ect year and consequential opportunities to todays market conditions and that these acquire land for the future.
Instead, there are market led.
To achieve this, we have has been very little activity as land prices identi ed a number of different development are yet to re ect the true cost of the planning solutions and this involves a great deal requirements and Section 106 contributions, of expertise and patience as many local which in many instances are continuing to authorities continue to look for planning rise, coupled with the uncertain market gain ahead of new homes being built.
The Groups policy during the year has been to acquire land cautiously at We have achieved a number of new planning 03 robust margins and where we can add value.
The two highlighted As a result, we only agreed nine new sites below are particularly notable as they are in the year.
examples of how Berkeley is working in close partnership with the Homes & Communities At 30 April 2009, the Group including joint Agency and Local Authorities to ensure the ventures controlled some 30,044 plots provision of badly needed new family homes with an estimated gross margin of 2,014 in London.
Firstly, construction has begun million.
This compares with 31,365 plots on the first phase of Woodberry Down in the and an estimated gross margin of 2,728 London Borough of Hackney.
This covers million at 30 April 2008.
Of the total 30,044 440 units and applications for subsequent plots, 23,572 plots April 2008: 23,065 are phases are now being prepared.
Secondly, owned and included on the balance sheet.
at Kidbrooke in the London Borough of In addition, 6,407 plots April 2008: 8,014 Greenwich, a resolution to grant has been are contracted and 65 plots April 2008: 286 received for the outline masterplan and have terms agreed.
In excess of 95% of our for the first phase of 449 units.
holdings are on brown eld or recycled land.
indb 07 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:43:20 09:43:20 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW 08 MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW [CONTINUED] bank and selectively acquiring new land JOINT VENTURES FORWARD SALES At 30 April 2009 Berkeley had 22.5 million At 30 April 2009, Berkeley had cash due on opportunities.
Berkeley has positioned itself to perform in these market conditions and of capital employed in joint ventures, an forward sales of 619.8 million, compared increase of 20.1 million in the year.
Selling is ready to take advantage of opportunities as the market improves.
The key to recovery million of the 22.5 million is represented homes at an early stage in the development by Berkeleys investment in St Edward cycle, often off-plan, to secure customers is the feel-good factor which is currently being battered by rising unemployment and Homes, its joint venture with Prudential, commitment and ensure the quality and and the remaining 1.7 million by Berkeleys certainty of future revenue and cash ow increased taxation, offset by the shortage of supply of new homes and low interest investment in its joint ventures with Saad remains a fundamental part of Berkeleys Investments Company Limited.
Doing so in the current market rates.
Despite this, Berkeley is looking capital employed of the joint ventures with conditions is more dif cult as customers forward to the future with con dence as Saad is 18.7 million and this includes 15.3 con dence in their ability to secure it has the strategy, financial strength and million of bank debt.
suf cient mortgage finance is diminished.
expertise to continue maximising value for Until customer con dence in the ability its shareholders and creating communities In the year Berkeley has continued to develop to obtain mortgage finance is restored, in which people aspire to live and bring up St Edward Homes with Prudential and this Berkeley will have to manage its risk by their families.
joint venture now controls in excess of 2,300 closely matching production to demand.
plots across four sites with a number of notable achievements.
Berkeley has acquired AWARDS 50% of an existing of ce building in The Our customers remain the single most Strand, the other 50% already being owned important ingredient to Berkeleys success by Prudential, and a planning consent is and the current market, more than ever, being worked up for submission by the end of requires attention to detail, quality of this year.
St Edward has started construction product and the creation of sustainable TONY PIDGLEY on its 800 unit site at Stanmore, secured a places where people want to live and bring Managing Director planning consent for its 660 unit site at Green up their families.
Berkeley is therefore Park in Reading and submitted a planning delighted that, in addition to the recognition application for its site at Charles House, for its sustainability achievements, it Kensington which becomes vacant in 2010. has received two CABE Building For Life Berkeley is also working with Prudential on Awards for its developments at Royal a further 600 units on other potential sites.
Arsenal, Woolwich and Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth and that Berkeley Homes has While it is excellent that St Edward is also been awarded the What House?
Best going from strength to strength, Berkeley Large Housebuilder Gold Award for 2008. has been saddened that its long-term Royal Arsenal, Woolwich also received joint venture partner, Saad Investments one of this years five coveted BURA Best Company Limited, is subject to speculation Practice awards.
Berkeley has five joint ventures with Saad, only two of which OUTLOOK have active sites a residential development The market has corrected over the last site of 300 units in Fleet, Hampshire and 24 months and house prices are now a commercial site in Fulham, London, good value by most historic measures.
for which a residential consent is being Unfortunately, the ability to borrow is pursued.
We very much hope that Saad restricted to the very few and this will be an can resolve its dif culties and continue as anchor to transaction levels until mortgages our partner, while at the same time we are are more widely available.
Consequently, working with our advisers to ensure that while sales prices have stabilised for well the value of Berkeleys investment is secure.
located, quality homes, transaction levels Berkeley does not anticipate any financial are patchy.
In this environment, Berkeley loss or adverse impact on its business from will concentrate on matching production these joint ventures.
to demand, developing its owned land 8691 001 R&A 2009 ART V2.
indd 08 08 28 7 09 28 7 09 11:42:55 11:42:55 09 01 02 03 NOT JUST A PLACE TO LIVE We create places where people can live, work and play 01 Youngs one of our regular commercial partners 02 Restaurants, cafs and bars feature on many of our sites 03 Gym & Tonic at Beaufort Park 04 Our art gallery at Grosvenor Waterside 05 The Gambado play centre at Imperial Wharf 04 05 R&A R&A PRINT.
indb 09 28 7 09 28 7 09 09:43:37 09:43:37 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 10 ALL SAINTS, EASTBOURNE A MAGNIFICENTLY RESTORED LISTED BUILDING COMPLEMENTED BY THREE NEW-BUILD APARTMENT BUILDINGS ON THE CLIFF TOPS OF THE SOUTH COAST, ALL SET AROUND BEAUTIFUL PUBLIC REALM WHICH IS OPEN TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITY All Saints, Eastbourne R&A R&A PRINT.
