Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of details of proposals to introduce a new listed holding the Group for the year ended 31 December 2009. company, now called F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited previously called New FCPT Limited, Results and Dividends which was incorporated for the purpose of making The results for the year are set out in the attached an offer to acquire all of the previous listed holding accounts.
companys now called FCPT Holdings Limited The Group paid interim dividends during the year issued shares.
The offer became unconditional on 3 ended 31 December 2009 as follows: July 2009 and, on 7 July 2009, the shares of the Payment Rate per new holding company were admitted to listing on date share the Official List of the UKLA and to trading on the Fourth interim for prior year 30 January 2009 0.5p main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Fifth interim for prior year 27 February 2009 0.5p Also on 7 July 2009, the listing of the shares of the Sixth interim for prior year 27 March 2009 0.5p old holding company on the Official Lists of the Seventh interim for prior year 24 April 2009 0.5p First interim 29 May 2009 0.5p UKLA and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange, and Second interim 26 June 2009 0.5p the trading in its shares on the London Stock Third interim 31 July 2009 0.5p Exchange and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange, Fourth interim 28 August 2009 0.5p were suspended.
The listings were cancelled on 4 Fifth interim 25 September 2009 0.5p Sixth interim 30 October 2009 0.5p August 2009.
Seventh interim 27 November 2009 0.5p Under the offer, shareholders were offered one new Eighth interim 29 December 2009 0.5p share in the new listed holding company for each share in the old listed company.
The effect of the The above dividends were paid to shareholders, transaction was that, during the period under review, prior to acceptance of the offer set out in Group Reconstruction below, by FCPT Holdings Limited the company now called F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited became the new holding company of and, subsequent to acceptance of the offer, by F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited.
the Group with the same Board of Directors.
It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay On 9 November 2009 the Board announced that, dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not pursuant to the statutory compulsory acquisition therefore recommend a final dividend.
Two further procedure under Guernsey law, F&C Commercial interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid Property Trust Limited had acquired 100 per cent of on 29 January and 26 February and a third will be the issued share capital of FCPT Holdings Limited, paid on 26 March 2010.
The twelfth, and last, and that the offer was therefore closed and was no interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per longer capable of acceptance.
share, will be paid on 30 April 2010 to shareholders Following the completion of the group reconstruction, on the register on 16 April 2010.
It is the intention of the shareholders in the new legal parent company the Directors that the Company will continue to pay were substantially the same as those of the previous dividends monthly.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009 Principal Activity and Status have therefore been prepared under IFRS 3 using the The Company is a  company reverse acquisition basis of accounting.
Under this and, during the year, carried on business as a basis the Annual Report and Accounts have been property investment company.
The Companys prepared under the name of F&C Commercial shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Property Trust Limited but represent a continuation of The Company is a member of the Association of the financial statements of the legal subsidiary, now Investment Companies AIC.
Group Reconstruction Further details on the basis of accounting regarding On 5 June 2009, a prospectus and an offer the group reconstruction adopted in the financial document were sent to shareholders containing statements are contained in note 1 b.
16 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Business Review properties with less than 60 years remaining may The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of stewardship of the Company, including investment acquisition.
and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per corporate governance procedures and risk cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in management.
As set out in the Directors indirect property funds which invest principally in UK Responsibility Statement on page 25, the Board is property, but these investments may not exceed also responsible for the preparation of the Annual 20 per cent of total assets at any subsequent date.
Report and financial statements for each financial The Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it period.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of for working capital purposes and awaiting whom are non-executive, can be found on page 15. investment, in cash deposits, gilts and money The Company has no executive Directors or market funds.
The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to enhance returns over the long term.
Gearing, Objective represented by borrowings as a percentage of total The Companys investment objective is to provide assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of Boards present intention is that borrowings of the income together with the potential for capital and Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent income growth from investing in a diversified UK of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Investment of Assets Investment Policy At each Board meeting, the Board receives a The Company holds a diversified portfolio of freehold detailed presentation from the Managers which and predominantly long leasehold over 60 years includes a review of investment performance, recent remaining at the time of acquisition UK commercial portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It invests principally in three commercial considers compliance with the investment policy and property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
other investment restrictions during the reporting The Company invests in properties which the Board, period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested on the advice of the Managers, believes will as at 31 December 2009 is contained within the generate a combination of long-term growth in Managers Review on pages 9 to 13 and a full capital and income for shareholders.
Investment portfolio listing is provided on page 14. decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst The Groups borrowings are represented by other things, prospects for future capital and income 230 million Secured Bonds due 2017, which are growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant described in more detail in note 13 to the accounts.
covenant strength, lease length, and initial and The gearing level as at 31 December 2009 was equivalent yields.
28.0 per cent of total assets, including cash 2008: Investment risks are spread by investing across 28.2 per cent.
different geographical areas and sectors and by letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company Strategy has not set any maximum geographic exposures, As part of its strategy the Board has contractually but the maximum weightings in the principal delegated the management of the property portfolio property sectors at any time stated as a percentage and other services, to the Managers.
of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property The Companys performance in meeting its may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five objectives is measured against key performance largest properties excluding indirect property funds indicators as set out below.
A review of the may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each Companys returns during the financial year, the case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold position of the Company at the year-end, and Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Report of the Directors continued the outlook for the coming year are contained in the audit report, misreporting or breaches of Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
Breaching bond covenants could lead to a downgrading of the Secured Bonds, a Principal Risks and Uncertainties loss of shareholders confidence and financial The Companys assets comprise direct and indirect loss for shareholders see note 13 for details of investments in UK commercial property, although the principal bond covenants.
market uncertainty last year resulted in more cash The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks being held for several months.
Its principal risks are through continual review, policy-setting and therefore related to the commercial property market enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also in general and its investment properties.
More regularly monitors the investment environment and detailed explanations of these risks and the way in the management of the Companys property which they are managed are contained in note 17 to portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the the accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate internal control guidance issued by the Financial these risks through active asset management Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal initiatives and carrying out due diligence work on controls are described in more detail on pages 22 potential tenants before entering into any new lease and 23. agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
Shareholder Value Other risks faced by the Company include the The Board and Managers recognise the importance following: of both marketing and share buy-backs in Economic inflation or deflation, economic enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, recessions and movements in interest rates could the Managers offer a range of private investor affect property valuations.
savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 51.
In addition, meetings are held regularly Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, with current and prospective shareholders and including sector and geographic allocations and stockbroking analysts covering the investment use of gearing could lead to poor returns for company sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce shareholders.
the volatility of any discount of the share price to the Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead net asset value per share and enhance the net asset to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange value per share for continuing shareholders.
listing, financial penalties or a qualified audit Communication of quarterly portfolio information is report.
made through the Companys website.
Management and control changes that cause the management and control of the Company to Key Performance Indicators be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to The Board uses a number of performance measures the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom to assess the Companys success in meeting its taxation on income and capital gains.
The key performance indicators are as follows: Operational failure of the Managers accounting systems or disruption to the Managers business, Net asset value total return and total return of the or that of third party service providers, could lead property portfolio compared to relevant to an inability to provide accurate reporting and Investment Property Databank indices: monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
Premium discount of share price to net asset value: Financial inadequate controls by the Managers or third party service providers could lead Dividend per share and dividend yield: and to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate Total expenses as a ratio of total assets less accounting policies or failure to comply with current liabilities.
accounting standards could lead to a qualified 18 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited A historic record of these indicators is contained The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests in the Highlights and the Performance Summary on of shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
pages 3 and 4, the Chairmans Statement on During the year the Directors received the following pages 5 to 7, and in the Historic Record on emoluments in the form of fees: page 50.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2009 2008 Directors On 31 October 2009 Mr J G Hooley and Mr C Russell, whose biographical details are shown on J H Stephen 27,500 25,000 appointed Chairman 31 October 2009 page 15, were appointed as Directors.
On the same D L Adamson 20,833 25,000 date Mr D L Adamson retired as a Director.
retired 31 October 2009 J G Hooley 4,167 For the reasons provided under Corporate appointed 31 October 2009 Governance on page 20, Mr P Niven stepped P Niven 37,500 37,500 down as Chairman and as a member of the stepped down  Audit Committee on 31 October 2009 and C Russell 4,167 Mr J H Stephen was appointed as Chairman on the appointed 31 October 2009 same date.
B W Sweetland 25,000 25,000 N J M Tostevin 30,000 30,000 The Directors who held office at the end of the year Total 149,167 142,500 and their interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2009 all of which were beneficially There are no service contracts in existence between held were: the Company and any Directors but each of the 2009 2008 Directors was appointed by a letter of appointment Ordinary Ordinary which sets out the main terms of his appointment.
Shares Shares J H Stephen 42,389 42,051 Management J G Hooley 60,000 60,000 The Managers provide investment management and P Niven 43,142 42,491 other services to the Company.
Details of the C Russell arrangements between the Company and the B W Sweetland 88,961 87,620 Managers in respect of management services are N J M Tostevin 21,832 21,502 given in note 2 to the accounts.
The Board keeps under review the appropriateness or subsequent date of appointment.
In doing so the Board considers the past investment performance of There have been no changes in the above interests the Company and the capability and resources of between 31 December 2009 and 25 March 2010. the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment In accordance with the Companys Articles of performance.
It also considers the length of the Incorporation all the Directors will retire at the Annual notice period of the investment management General Meeting, being the first such meeting agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, following their appointment to the new holding together with the standard of the other services company following the reconstruction of the Group provided.
Being eligible, all of the Directors The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability offer themselves for re-election.
to deliver satisfactory investment performance, and The Board confirms that, following formal the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore performance evaluations, the performance of each their opinion that the continuing appointment of the of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Report of the Directors continued Substantial Interests in Share Capital provision A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, nor for a As at 25 March 2010 the Company had received Senior Independent Director to be appointed as notification of the following holdings of voting rights recommended by principle 1 of the AIC Code and provision A.
In addition, under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules : in light of his considerable financial experience, the Number of Board considered it appropriate for Mr P Niven, who Ordinary Shares Percentage was Chairman of the Board until 31 October 2009, Held Held to be a member of the Audit Committee, contrary to Resolution Limited 342,300,000 50.3 the recommendation of provision C. 3.1 of the Combined Code which recommends that a company chairman should not be a member of the Corporate Governance audit committee.
Mr J H Stephen, who was appointed Chairman of the Board on 31 October Guernsey does not currently have its own corporate governance code although, at the date of these 2009, ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee during the year.
financial statements, this is being developed.
The Board has therefore considered the principles and The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors.
recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate All of the Directors, other than Mr P Niven and Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Mr B W Sweetland, are considered by the Board to Corporate Governance Guide for Investment be independent.
Mr Niven is an independent nonCompanies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as executive director of Resolution Limited which, during explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the the year, acquired the Companys majority principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined shareholder, Friends Provident plc.
As a result of the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the acquisition, Resolution Limited became the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, Companys new ultimate majority shareholder and, as well as setting out additional principles and under the provisions of the Combined Code, recommendations on issues specific to investment Mr Niven ceased to be an independent Director of companies.
He therefore stepped down as The Board considers that it is appropriate to report Chairman on 31 October 2009, becoming a nonagainst the principles and recommendations of the independent Director subject to annual re-election.
AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which Mr Sweetland was, until May 2005, an executive incorporates the Combined Code.
director of Friends Provident plc and, until January 2005, a non-executive director of F&C Asset Except as disclosed below, the Company complied Management plc F&C, the parent company of the throughout the year with the recommendations of the Companys Managers.
He currently sits on a AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the committee which provides non-investment related Combined Code.
Since all the Directors are nonadvice to F&C regarding its range of socially executive, in accordance with the AIC Code and the responsible investment products.
This role will cease preamble to the Combined Code, the provisions of on 30 June 2010, after which Mr Sweetland will be the Combined Code on the role of the chief executive considered to be an independent Director by the and, except in so far as they apply to non-executive Board.
However, until then, he may not be Directors, on Directors remuneration, are not relevant considered to be independent and will remain to the Company, and are not reported on further.
subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The In view of its non-executive nature and the Board has also considered Mr Hooleys position, until requirement of the Articles of Incorporation that all September 2007, as the senior partner of KPMG in Directors retire by rotation at least every three years, the Channel Islands.
In that role, Mr Hooley had no the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the involvement with any aspect of KPMGs role as Directors to be appointed for a specified term as auditor of the Company.
The Board therefore recommended by principle 3 of the AIC Code and considers Mr Hooley to be independent.
20 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and under which the external auditor is appointed to experience are considered to add significantly to the perform non-audit services.
The Committee reviews strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the the scope and results of the audit, its cost overall length of service of any of the Companys effectiveness and the independence and objectivity Directors, including the Chairman, has been of the auditor, with particular regard to non-audit imposed.
New Directors receive an induction from the fees.
Such fees amounted to 9,000 for the year Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, and all ended 31 December 2009 year ended Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
31 December 2008 14,000 and related principally to a review of the interim financial The Company has no executive directors or information and certification of bond compliance employees.
A management agreement between the certificates.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Company and FCIB sets out the matters over which Committee considers KPMG Channel Islands the Managers have authority and the limits beyond Limited to be independent of the Company and that which Board approval must be sought.
All other the provision of such non-audit services is not a matters, including investment and dividend policies, threat to the objectivity and independence of the corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance conduct of the audit.
procedures and risk management, are reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board The Management Engagement Committee meets at least quarterly and receives full information comprises all of the Directors except for on the Companys investment performance, assets, Mr B W Sweetland and Mr P Niven, who stepped liabilities and other relevant information in advance of down from the Committee on 31 October 2009.
committee reviews the appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment together with the Throughout the year the Audit Committee and the terms and conditions thereof on a regular basis.
Management Engagement Committee have been in operation and, during the year, the Nomination During the year a Nomination Committee was Committee was constituted.
The terms of reference established comprising all of the Directors.
of these committees are available for inspection on Mr J H Stephen is the Chairman.
convened for the purpose of considering the appointment of additional Directors as and when The Audit Committee meets twice yearly, is chaired considered appropriate.
In considering appointments by Mr N J M Tostevin and is the forum through to the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into which the auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
account the ongoing requirements of the Company Its membership comprises all of the independent and the need to have a balance of skills and non-executive directors other than Mr J H Stephen, experience within the Board.
who ceased to be a member of the Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Board During the year the performance of the Board, on 31 October 2009.
Also on that date, committees and individual Directors was evaluated Mr J G Hooley and Mr C Russell joined the through an assessment process, led by the Committee, Mr D Adamson retired from the Board Chairman at that time.
This process involved the and the Committee and Mr P Niven stepped down completion of questionnaires tailored to suit the from the Committee when he ceased to be nature of the Company, and follow up discussions regarded as an independent director in the between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
The Committee The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by operates within clearly defined terms of reference, its the other Directors.
duties including reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls and the The table overleaf sets out the number of scheduled Board and committee meetings held during the year terms of appointment and remuneration of the auditor.
The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued Management Board of Directors Audit Committee Engagement Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended J H Stephen 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 D L Adamson 5 4 2 2 1 1 1 retired 31 October 2009 J G Hooley 5 1 2 1 1 appointed 31 October 2009 P Niven 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 C Russell 5 1 2 1 1 appointed 31 October 2009 B W Sweetland 5 5 2 n a 1 n a 1 1 N J M Tostevin 5 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed The test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is above, there were a further 29 Board meetings and provided with regular reports highlighting all material Board committee meetings held in Guernsey during changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action the year.
which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Audit Committee and includes consideration of Company, seek independent professional advice on internal control reports issued by the Managers and any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of other service providers.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Such review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval Going Concern of the Annual Report, and the Board is satisfied with After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed nature of the Companys business and assets, the to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their Directors consider that the Company has adequate nature, can only provide reasonable, but not resources to continue in operational existence for absolute, assurance against material misstatement the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the investment performance of the Company in accounts.
comparison to its stated objective and against comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Internal Controls Companys activities since the last Board meeting to The Board is responsible for the Companys system ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
investment policy and approved investment The Board has therefore established an ongoing guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to process designed to meet the particular needs of the guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Company in managing the risks to which it the Board receives reports from the Secretary in is exposed, consistent with the internal control respect of compliance matters and duties performed guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The process is based principally on the Managers The Board has reviewed the need for an internal existing risk-based approach to internal control whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the audit function.
The Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Managers key functions carried out by the Managers and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken and the Secretary, including their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise Companys external auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited which safeguards the Companys assets, is The Board therefore believes that a resolution should maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the be sought at this years Annual General Meeting to Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
Resolution 10 therefore, gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion of the Annual General Environmental Policy Meeting in 2011 or, if earlier, on the expiry of The Managers acquire, develop and manage 15 months from the passing of Resolution 10, the properties on behalf of the Company.
It is necessary authority either to allot securities or sell recognised that these activities have both direct and shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an endorsed the Managers own environmental policy aggregate nominal amount of 680,537.
This is which is to work in partnership with contractors, equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the tenants and consultants to minimise those impacts, issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at seeking continuous improvements in environmental 25 March 2010.
It is expected that in future the performance and conducting regular reviews.
Company will seek this authority annually.
The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to Relations with Shareholders this authority if they believe it is advantageous to the The Company proactively seeks the views of its Companys shareholders to do so and in no shareholders and places great importance on circumstances that would result in a dilution to the communication with them.
The Board receives net asset value per share.
regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares shareholders if required.
The Notice of Annual The Company did not buy back any shares during General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2010 is set the year.
It is hoped that this will provide a forum, both formal and informal, for The current authority of the Company to make shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the market purchases of up to 102,012,496 Ordinary Directors and Managers of the Company.
Shares, being 14.99 per cent of the Ordinary Share Capital issued in connection with the prospectus published by the Company on 5 June 2009, expires Directors Authority to Allot Shares at the end of the Annual General Meeting and The Company, being a Guernsey incorporated Resolution 11, as set out in the notice of the Annual company, is an overseas company for the purposes General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority of the current Listing Rules.
Accordingly, the preuntil the earlier of the Annual General Meeting in emption rights under the current Listing Rules do 2011 and 18 months from the passing of the not apply to the Company.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be Changes to the UK listing regime are, however, made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the scheduled to come into force on 6 April 2010.
The proposed changes will mean that the listing regime Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
will be restructured into two segments: premium and standard.
The Company, as a result of having equity Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the shares in issue, will be deemed to fall within the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as premium segment.
In accordance with the proposed new provisions of the Listing Rules, with effect from last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The price 6 April 2011 the directors of a premium listed company will not be permitted to allot new shares paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per share.
Such purchases will also only be made in or grant rights over shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be to their existing holdings.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Report of the Directors continued more than 5 per cent above the average of the passed, this discount policy, save in respect of middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for share buy backs, would not apply for a period of the five business days before the shares are two years thereafter.
Any shares purchased under In addition, at the Annual General Meeting of the this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury Company to be held in 2015, the Directors will within the following limits: propose an ordinary resolution for the continuation No more than 10 per cent of the Companys of the Company.
If the continuation resolution is not issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: passed, the Directors will be obliged to convene an and Extraordinary General Meeting within six months to Shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a consider the winding up of the Company or a premium to the net asset value.
reconstruction of the Company which offers all Shareholders the opportunity to realise their Discount Policy and Continuation Votes investment.
If the continuation resolution is passed, In accordance with its stated discount policy FCPT the Directors will propose a similar resolution at the Holdings Limited held an Extraordinary General Annual General Meeting of the Company five yearly Meeting on 1 May 2009 at which a resolution was thereafter.
proposed to approve its continuation.
The Board was pleased to announce that the resolution was Disclosure of Information to the Auditor passed by shareholders.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as The Boards stated intention is to use the share buy they are each aware: back authority to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to the income and cash flow requirements of the there is no relevant audit information of which the Company and where the Directors believe the price Companys auditor is unaware: and available to be in the best interests of shareholders each Director has taken all the steps that he as a whole if the share price of an Ordinary Share is ought to have taken as a Director to make more than five per cent below the published net himself aware of any relevant audit information asset value per share for a continuous period of and to establish that the Companys auditor is 20 dealing days or more.
To ensure a fair aware of that information.
comparison, the Directors believe that such discount should be calculated by adjusting the published net Auditor asset value per share for any dividends for which the KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its share price has gone ex-dividend.
willingness to continue in office as the Groups auditor and a resolution proposing its reIn the event that the Ordinary Shares trade at appointment will be submitted at the Annual General a discount of more than five per cent for Meeting.
90 consecutive dealing days or more after 1 May 2011, the Directors will convene a general meeting to be held within three months to consider an On behalf of the Board ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the Directors will convene a further general meeting to be held within six months of the first general meeting to consider the winding up of the N J M Tostevin Company or a reconstruction of the Company which Director offers all shareholders the opportunity to realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is 25 March 2010 24 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
