Board of Directors John Stephen` Chris Russell ` Chairman age 61 was appointed a age 60 was appointed a Director on 31 October 2009 Director in 2005 and and is a resident of Chairman on 31 October Guernsey.
2001, an executive director He is a Fellow of the Royal of Gartmore Investment Institution of Chartered Management plc.
He is a Surveyors with over 35 years of property experience director of a number of investment companies listed with Jones Lang LaSalle where he was Chairman for in the UK and US including Candover Investments England until he retired from the firm in October plc, JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Smaller 2009.
He is also a director of Max Property Group Companies Investment Trust plc, Castle Asia plc, a strategic adviser to Evans Property Group, a Alternative PCC Limited and The Korea Fund Inc.
He trustee of the Portman Estate and an adviser to is also a director of The Association of Investment Companies, Schroders C. I.
Limited, Enhanced Lloyds Banking Groups Corporate Real Estate unit.
He is a charity trustee, a school governor and a Index Funds PCC and Hanseatic Asset Management property adviser to the Duchy of Cornwall.
Brian Sweetland` Jonathan Hooley ` age 64 was appointed a age 54 was appointed a Director in 2005 and is a UK Director on 31 October 2009 resident.
He was, until May and is a resident of 2005, an executive director Guernsey.
He was, until of Friends Provident plc FP September 2007, the senior and a member of its partner of KPMG in the investment committee.
He is solicitor, Mr Sweetland was the company secretary Chairman of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange of FP for over 20 years.
He was formerly a nonand a non-executive director of BlueCrest AllBlue executive director of Benchmark Group plc and, Fund Limited, Rothschild Bank International Limited until January 2005, F&C Asset Management plc and Rothschild Bank CI Limited.
Since 2002, he has sat on a committee that the Offshore Advisory Committee of The Association provides independent non-investment related advice of Investment Companies and an adviser to the to F&Cs range of socially responsible investment Policy Council of the States of Guernsey on external products, a role that will cease on 30 June 2010. matters.
Nicholas Tostevin ` Peter Niven` Chairman of the Audit age 55 was appointed a Committee Director in 2005 and is a age 57 was appointed a resident of Guernsey.
He has Director in 2005 and is a over 34 years experience in resident of Guernsey.
He is the financial services industry an Advocate of the Royal both in the UK and offshore.
Court of Guernsey and was, He was a senior executive in until 31 May 2009, the senior partner of Babbe.
He the Lloyds TSB Group until his retirement in 2004 has given legal advice on commercial property and, since then, has been the Chief Executive of transactions in Guernsey for over 25 years.
He was Guernsey Finance LBG, promoting the island as a a member of the Guernsey legislature, the States of financial services destination.
He also serves on the Deliberation, from 1991 to 1997 and was a member boards of a number of London-listed investment of the Guernsey Income Tax Authority for six years.
funds in addition to being a director of Resolution He is a non-executive director of a number of Limited, which is the Companys ultimate majority captive insurance companies and Guernsey-based shareholder.
Mr Niven is a Fellow of the Chartered investment companies, including Gottex Market Institute of Bankers and a Chartered Director.
Neutral Trust Limited, a London-listed fund of hedge funds.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement Committee `Member of the Nomination Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
