Company Summary The Company share in the old listed company.
The effect of the F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the transaction was that, during the period under review, Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey the company now called F&C Commercial Property incorporated investment company.
Its shares are listed Trust Limited became the new holding company of the on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and Group with the same Board of Directors.
traded on the main market of the London Stock On 9 November 2009 the Board announced that, Exchange.
pursuant to the statutory compulsory acquisition The Company also consolidates FCPT Holdings procedure under Guernsey law, F&C Commercial Limited, F&C Commercial Property Holdings Limited Property Trust Limited had acquired 100 per cent of and F&C Commercial Property Finance Limited, the issued share capital of FCPT Holdings Limited, collectively known throughout this document as the and that the offer was therefore closed and was no Group, details of which are contained in note 1 b to longer capable of acceptance.
Following the completion of the group reconstruction, At 31 December 2009 Group total assets less current the shareholders in the new legal parent company liabilities were 819 million and Group shareholders were substantially the same as those of the previous funds were 589 million.
This Annual Report has therefore been prepared under the name of F&C Group Reconstruction Commercial Property Trust Limited but represents a The Group was reconstructed during the year.
continuation of the financial statements of the legal On 5 June 2009, a prospectus and an offer document subsidiary, now called FCPT Holdings Limited.
were sent to shareholders containing details of Further details on the basis of accounting regarding proposals to introduce a new listed holding company, the group reconstruction adopted in the financial now called F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited statements are contained in note 1 b. previously called New FCPT Limited, which was incorporated for the purpose of making an offer to Objective acquire all of the previous listed holding companys The investment objective of the Company is to provide now called FCPT Holdings Limited issued shares.
ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income The offer became unconditional on 3 July 2009 and, together with the potential for capital and income on 7 July 2009, the shares of the new holding growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial company were admitted to listing on the Official List of property portfolio.
the UKLA and to trading on the main market of the Investment Policy London Stock Exchange.
The Companys investment policy is contained within Also on 7 July 2009, the listing of the shares of the the Report of the Directors on page 17. old holding company on the Official Lists of the UKLA and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange, and the Management trading in its shares on the London Stock Exchange The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business and the Channel Islands Stock Exchange, were Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB suspended.
The listings were cancelled on 4 August or the Investment Managers as the Companys 2009. investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document Under the offer, shareholders were offered one new as F&C REIT or the Property Managers as the share in the new listed holding company for each Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1 Company Summary continued Guernsey Regulatory Status Companys property managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this granted an authorisation declaration in accordance document as the Managers.
with section 8 of the Protection of Investors Bailiwick Further details of the management arrangements are of Guernsey Law 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of provided on page 8 and in note 2 to the accounts.
the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009.
Capital Structure The Companys equity capital structure consists of How to Invest Ordinary Shares.
The Managers operate a number of investment plans Subject to the solvency test provided for in The which facilitate investment in the shares of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, Company.
Details are contained on page 51. ordinary shareholders are entitled to all dividends declared by the Company and to all of the Companys You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
assets after repayment of its borrowings and ordinary creditors.
Borrowings consist of 230 million Secured ISA Status Bonds due 2017.
The bonds carry interest at a fixed The Companys shares are eligible for Individual rate of 5.23 per cent per annum and have an Savings Accounts ISAs.
expected maturity date of 30 June 2015.
If the bonds are not redeemed at this date they will carry interest at Website 0.6 per cent over LIBOR until the final maturity date of The Companys internet address is: www.
