3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Risk of sterling resulting in the decision to close out the Groups hedging Operational risks swap portfolio.
In response to this complexity, weekly special Group The Group is exposed to a range of operational risks which can arise Risk Management Committee meetings, chaired by the Chief Executive, from a combination of shortcomings in processes, people or systems or were set up in October 2008 at which developments in areas of higher from external factors affecting these.
These include operational events risk are considered, together with the need for further action, with such as human resources risks, legal and regulatory risks, information regular updates provided to the Board.
technology systems failures, business disruption and shortcomings The main changes to the Groups risk profile were the increases in the in internal controls.
Line management at all levels is responsible for estimated severity of several key risks identified at the start of the identifying, assessing, controlling and reporting operational risks.
This is financial year: in particular the areas of liquidity and refinancing risk supported by a framework of core values, global policies and controls, and the management of gearing and net debt.
a code of business conduct and delegated authorities.
The Operational Risk Committee exercises oversight and regularly monitors operational risk throughout the business.
There is also an independent internal audit Risk management function which carries out periodic reviews.
The Groups risk management strategy has been adapted to address Further relevant information can be found in the Corporate governance the changes in 3is risk profile.
A key assumption underpinning this statement in the Governance section on pages 74 to 79. strategy is that the current economic recession will be prolonged, affecting earnings and valuations across the portfolio, the availability People of credit, consumer demand and levels of taxation.
In this context, The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable people is of fundamental there has been a significantly increased focus on the risks inherent in importance to achieving the Groups strategy.
The Group operates the investment portfolio and Groups balance sheet management.
in a competitive industry and aims to remunerate staff in line with A formal review of the effectiveness of the current risk management market practice and to provide superior development opportunities.
framework was carried out in March 2009.
The principal conclusion of The Group has human resources policies and procedures covering this review was that although the basic framework remains sound, the recruitment, vetting and performance management and appropriate terms of reference and membership of the main committees required processes in place to monitor their application.
Staff engagement is updating where necessary to eliminate some overlap in coverage and also regularly evaluated and reported to the Board.
to support further the effectiveness of the current structure.
Further information on staff engagement can be found in the These changes were agreed with a view to improving oversight and Corporate responsibility report on pages 60 to 61. decision taking in relation to balance sheet management, including foreign exchange risk, and to investment portfolio risks.
This includes Business processes the implementation of a new portfolio risk model designed to provide The Groups information technology and treasury systems, as well additional insight to both balance sheet management and portfolio as its business processes and procedures, support its operations strategies for investment and realisations.
The Group has policies and procedures covering information security, change management, business continuity Reviews of the performance of investment portfolio companies and disaster recovery.
These are subject to periodic testing.
have increased in frequency and intensity, supported by improved availability and use of management information and detailed risk Legal and regulatory assessments, including for example close monitoring of refinancing In order to conform to necessary legal and regulatory requirements across risks and potential reputational risks.
The new role of Managing multiple jurisdictions, the Group operates a complex legal and corporate Partner, Investments, has been created to ensure consistency and structure.
This requires appropriate internal processes and procedures rigour in all investment decisions.
to be developed and followed, supported by professional teams with A further priority is to reduce the Groups current level of financial risk, appropriate skills, drawing upon external resources where appropriate.
specifically the levels of net debt and unhedged currency exposures, as outlined in the Chief Executives statement.
Review of risks The implications of the recently announced proposed European Directive, affecting the regulation of private equity, will need to be evaluated in the context of the Groups operations.
Evolution of risks during the year Business disruption from avian or swine flu or similar health pandemics As already noted in the Chairmans and Chief Executives statements, has again moved up the risk agenda and could have a significant this has been a year of severe economic challenge.
As a result, and effect on 3is investment portfolio, and business confidence in general, in common with many other businesses, 3is risk profile has shifted if it were to escalate.
This may require aspects of current business fundamentally due to the unprecedented combination of factors continuity plans to be re-assessed.
including the collapse of credit markets: high market volatility: complex and unforeseen risk interdependencies: and the onset Finally, corporate responsibility and business sustainability are of of recession in the main markets in which the Group operates.
increasing importance, particularly when trust in the financial services The consequences of this combination have, at times, been difficult to sector has declined significantly.
The Corporate responsibility report predict, particularly in the latter half of the year.
Examples include the on pages 53 to 64 provides details of 3is approach and performance.
very significant and rapid deterioration in market multiples, and thus the portfolio valuation, driving up the gearing ratio, and the weakening 52
