3i Group plc Report and accounts 2009 Business review Group investment policy 3is investment approach 3is investment policy, which as a closed ended investment fund it is Our approach to investing has evolved over many years and is driven required to publish, is as follows: by our belief that our reputation with whom we work is a key factor in our future success.
3is investment track record is fundamental to 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders our reputation, as are our values which are set out in our corporate with quoted access to private equity returns.
Currently, its main responsibility report on page 53.
These, together with the key focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt Group financial and non-financial performance measures set out investments in businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and North on page 14 and the individual performance objectives of our staff, America.
The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset drive the behaviour and actions on which our performance and classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities reputation depend.
Proposed investments are assessed individually and all significant investments require approval from the Groups We further strengthened our model of combining business line Investment Committee.
Overall investment targets are subject to expertise with geographic and sector knowledge and resources periodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also reviewed to in the year, with an acceleration in the development of our Active monitor exposure to specific geographies, economic sectors and partnership model and the appointment of a Managing Partner, asset classes.
This role is to ensure consistency of approach across our business lines, sectors and geographies, as well as to maximise the use 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of of best practice and investment strategy.
investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size as well as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
Other aspects of our investing approach include our Active In addition, although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for partnership programme which is key to achieving the step increases asset allocations, no more than 15% by value of 3is portfolio can in portfolio performance which drive returns, our Business Leaders be held in a single investment.
Network which provides access to high quality business leaders around the world, our debt advisory team which has been especially Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and helpful in the environment of the last year and our open and shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to transparent approach to conducting business.
A brief description of shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
3is gearing each of these activities is provided below.
depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of market movements and other factors on the value of its Active partnership investments.
The Board takes this into account when, as required, it sets a precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has therefore Creating value through effective portfolio company management is at set the maximum level of gearing at 150% and has set no minimum the heart of any private equity firms performance, and never more so level of gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed the 150% than in the current economic climate.
maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the gearing ratio Over the last two years, we have taken a long-standing 3i philosophy to below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
3i is committed of supportive investing and codified it into a rigorous methodology to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
It is an approach that we believe to be When the Company published its investment policy in its Annual genuinely differentiated in terms of scale, rigour and effectiveness.
report and accounts for the year to 31 March 2008, the Board also Our Active partnership approach builds upon 3is traditional high stated that it then considered it appropriate to operate with an engagement with the boards and management teams of our portfolio optimum gearing ratio within a 30% to 40% range across the cycle.
We believe that superior performance is achievable by In light of the current dislocation in the debt markets and the focusing on the key functions and value drivers within a portfolio substantial changes occurring and expected in the pricing and company and then striving to make these functions best in class.
availability of debt finance, the Board intends to reconsider the This is delivered in practice by drawing upon the knowledge and appropriateness of this optimum range for the Groups gearing ratio experience we have developed across our portfolio and our ability in due course when markets are more settled.
Furthermore, given that to access a wide range of expertise from within and outside of market movements are outside the Companys control, the Board will our portfolio.
also target an absolute level of net debt, in addition to the optimum gearing ratio referred to above.
If a material change to the investment The programme operates in each of our Buyouts, Growth Capital policy is considered appropriate, the Board would seek the approval of and Infrastructure business lines, geographic regions, and investment shareholders for such a change.
professionals are formally trained to identify potential performance improvement opportunities.
Success depends upon a targeted needs analysis for each portfolio company which is then followed up through facilitated knowledgesharing and peer group learning between other portfolio companies, our Business Leaders Network and those in the broader 3i network.
Examples of this have included lean operations, sales force effectiveness, communications and human resources management.
16 P14 P54 for further information on our performance measures for further information on our core values
