30 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Directors report The Board presents its report for the Company Advisory arrangements Other significant service in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009. arrangements 3i Investments acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Infrastructure through its infrastructure In addition to the arrangements described Principal activity investment team.
The investment advisory above, 3i plc a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment team provides advice to the Company on the 3i Group and 3i Investments, in relation to company that invests in infrastructure origination and completion of new certain regulatory services, have been businesses and assets.
The Directors do not investments, on the realisation of investments, appointed by the Company to provide anticipate any change in the principal activity on funding requirements, as well as on the support services to the Group, including of the Company in the foreseeable future.
management of the investment portfolio.
treasury and accounting services, investor The Company has an exclusivity arrangement relations and other back office support Regulation with the Investment Adviser that originally services.
Fee arrangements and the amount lasted for an initial period ending on the earlier payable to 3i plc for the year are set out in 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and of March 2012 or the full investment of the note 20 Related parties on page 53. is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services IPO proceeds.
As part of the Placing and Commission as a collective investment fund Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited have been Open Offer in July 2008, the terms of the under the Collective Investment Funds appointed as Administrator and Company agreement were amended to cover the full Jersey Law 1988.
investment of the IPO proceeds and the equity proceeds raised through the Placing and Results and dividends Business review Open Offer and also includes the original cost The financial statements of the Company and The Companys development during the year of any disposal proceeds from the investment its subsidiaries together referred to as the to 31 March 2009, its position at that date portfolio realised up to 12 months from Group for the year appear on pages 37 to and the Companys likely future development admission of new shares issued pursuant to 53. are detailed in the Chairmans statement on the Placing and Open Offer.
page 2 and the Investment Advisers review Total recognised income and expense for Under the agreement with the Investment on pages 4 to 10. the year attributable to equity holders Adviser, the appointment of the Investment of the parent was 79.1 million 2008: Adviser may be terminated by either the Share capital 89.3 million.
An interim dividend of 2.1p Company or the Investment Adviser giving the 2008: 2.0p per share in respect of the year Ordinary shares other not less than 12 months notice in to 31 March 2009 was paid on 12 December writing provided however that neither party The issued share capital of the Company as at 2008.
The Directors recommend a final may give such notice during the first four 30 April 2009 was 811,082,081 ordinary dividend of 3.2p 2008: 3.0p per share be years of the Investment Advisers shares 2008: 702,859,804.
In July 2008, paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2009 appointment, save that such 12 months the Company completed a Placing and Open to shareholders on the register at the close of notice may be given at any time if the Offer, as a result of which it issued business on 29 May 2009.
Investment Adviser has ceased to be a 108,132,277 new ordinary shares.
In January member of 3i Group, or with immediate 2009, 90,000 warrants were exercised.
This, Operations effect by either party giving the other written combined with new shares issued in the notice in the event of the insolvency or The Company has a non-executive Board and Placing and Open Offer, increased the share material or persistent breach of the no employees.
The Board acts as the capital from 702,859,804 shares at the start agreements terms by the other party.
Companys investment committee and is of the year to 811,082,081 currently.
responsible for the determination and 3i Group was among the subscribers to 3i Warrants supervision of the investment policy of the Infrastructures IPO and to the subsequent Company and for the approval of investment Under the IPO, for every ten shares purchased, Placing and Open Offer, following which it opportunities sourced by the Investment one warrant was issued.
Each warrant entitles owned 42.8% of the equity in the Company.
The Board will also supervise the the holder to subscribe for one ordinary share In February 2009, 3i Group placed 9.5% of monitoring of existing investments and at 1.00 at any time from 13 September the equity in the Company with a number of approve divestments and further financing 2007 to 13 March 2012.
During the year, institutional investors.
Subsequent to that of portfolio assets.
90,000 warrants were converted into shares.
placing, 3i Group owns 33.3% of the equity in At 31 March 2009 there were 70,550,980 the Company.
Fee arrangements and the warrants remaining in issue.
No additional amount payable to 3i plc for the year are set warrants were issued during the year.
out in note 20 Related parties on page 53.
Major interests in ordinary shares The Directors believe that the continued appointment of the Investment Adviser on the As at 30 April 2009, the Company had been terms set out on page 53 is in the interest of notified of the following interests in the shareholders, based on the performance in Companys ordinary share capital in accordance the year.
with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority FSA.
3i Infrastructure plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2009 1 Number of ordinary shares b all Directors to retire at least every financial statements, have been applied % as at 30 April 2009 three years.
consistently, and applicable accounting 3i Group plc 33.33 270,309,907 standards have been followed.
Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director, is BT Pension required to retire each year.
Subject to the In addition, these financial statements comply Scheme Trustees Articles of Association, retiring Directors are with International Financial Reporting Limited 12.33 100,000,000 eligible for reappointment.
Standards and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in Maan Abdulwahed In accordance with the Articles of Association, their preparation.
Al-Sanea 6.17 50,000,000 at the AGM to be held on 7 July 2009: Norges Bank 5.28 42,826,241 In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and i Sir John Collins, having been appointed as a Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to Newton Investment Director since the AGM in 2008, will retire the best of their knowledge that: Management and, being eligible, offer himself for Limited 3.53 28,668,518 election: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting 1 Each ordinary share carries one voting right.
ii Paul Waller, as a non-independent Director standards, give a true and fair view of the nominated by 3i Group, will retire and, Directors interests assets, liabilities, financial position and being eligible, offer himself for re-election.
profit or loss of the Company: and In accordance with FSA Listing Rule iii Phil Austin will retire by rotation, and, being 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests in respect of b the Directors report includes a fair review eligible, offer himself for re-election.
which transactions are notifiable to the of the development and performance of Company under FSA Disclosure and The Boards recommendation for the election the business and the position of the Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R in the shares of or re-election of Directors is set out in the Company, together with a description of the Company as at 31 March 2009 are shown Notice of AGM.
the principal risks and uncertainties faced below: by the Company.
Martin Dryden, currently also serving as Ordinary shares Warrants chairman of the Audit Committee, will retire The Directors of the Company and their from the Board at the AGM to be held on 7 functions are listed on page 29.
Steven Wilderspin will take over Phil Austin 10,000 the chairmanship of the Audit Committee Going concern Sir John Collins following the AGM.
The Companys business activities, together Martin Dryden with the factors likely to affect its future Directors indemnities Peter Wagner 46,153 development, performance and position are The Companys Articles of Association provide set out in the Investment Advisers review on Paul Waller 27,966 that, subject to the provisions of the Statutes, pages 4 to 10.
The financial position of the Steven Wilderspin every Director of the Company shall be Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and indemnified out of the assets of the Company borrowing facilities are described in the In the period from 1 April 2009 to 30 April against all liabilities and expenses incurred by Investment Advisers review on pages 4 to 10.
2009, there were no changes in the interests him in the actual or purported execution or In addition, note 10 to the financial statements of each Director.
Statutes here refers to includes the Companys objectives, policies Directors authority to buy-back shares the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and every and processes for managing its capital: its other statute, regulation or order for the time financial risk management objectives: details The Company did not purchase any shares for being in force concerning companies registered of its financial instruments and hedging cancellation during the year.
The current under Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The activities: and its exposures to credit risk and authority of the Company to make market Company has, in accordance with Jersey law, liquidity risk.
purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued entered into indemnity agreements for the ordinary share capital expires on 7 July 2009.
The Company has considerable liquid financial benefit of its Directors during the year and The Company will seek to renew such resources and a strong investment portfolio.
these remain in force at the date of this report.
authority until the end of the Annual General As a consequence, the Directors believe that Meeting AGM in 2010.
Any buy-back of the Group is well placed to manage its Statement of Directors ordinary shares will be made subject to Jersey business risks successfully despite the current responsibilities law and the making and timing of any buyuncertain economic outlook.
backs will be at the absolute discretion of the The Directors are required by Companies After making enquiries, the Directors have a Directors.
Such purchases will also only be Jersey Law 1991 to prepare financial reasonable expectation that the Company has made in accordance with the Listing Rules of statements which give a true and fair view of adequate resources to continue in operational the FSA which provide that the price paid must the state of affairs of the Company as at the existence for the foreseeable future.
not be more than 5% above the average end of the year and of the profit for the year.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going middle market quotations for the ordinary The Directors have responsibility for ensuring concern basis in preparing the annual report shares for the five business days before the that proper accounting records are kept which and accounts.
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and enable them to Directors re-election ensure that the financial statements comply By order of the Board with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Companys Articles of Association Authorised signatory provide for: They have a general responsibility for taking Mourant & Co Secretaries Limited such steps as are reasonably open to them to Company Secretary a Directors to retire at the first AGM after safeguard the assets of the Company and to 6 May 2009 their appointment by the Board and for the prevent and detect fraud and other Registered Office: number nearest to, but not exceeding, irregularities.
Suitable accounting policies, 22 Grenville Street one-third of the remaining Directors to which follow generally accepted accounting St Helier, Jersey retire by rotation at each AGM: and practice and are explained in the notes to the Channel Islands JE4 8PA
