3i Infrastructure plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2009 Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick 65 Philip Austin 60 Sir John Collins 67 Martin Dryden 51 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Senior Independent Director Sir John Collins has been Chairman Chairman of the Audit member of the management Managing Director of Equity Trust of DSG International plc since Committee and formerly Senior committee and a Vice President of in the Channel Islands since May 2002 and is also a director of Independent Director the European Investment Bank 2006.
Previously Chief Executive Rothschild Continuation Holdings Currently serving as a EIB, one of the largest multiof Jersey Finance Ltd, the body set AG.
He was previously a non-executive director at national lending institutions up to represent Jerseys finance non-executive director of Mourant International Finance in the world.
Was also a director of industry and to promote it NM Rothschild & Sons and Administration.
Previously a the European Investment Fund worldwide as an international The Peninsular and Oriental director of Maples Finance Jersey, from 2002 to 2006.
Before the finance centre, since its inception Navigation Company plc.
He has a company which provides EIB, he was a career HM Treasury in May 2001.
Before that, worked also served as Chairman of the fiduciary, accounting and fund civil servant in the UK.
Also sits for HSBC in the City of London for Advisory Committee on Business administration services to on the boards of two of over 20 years and since 1993 in and the Environment, Chairman of structured finance and investment 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg Jersey, where he was Deputy the DTIs Energy Advisory Panel, fund clients.
Before that, worked subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Chief Executive of the Banks Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs for the Gartmore Investment Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and business across Jersey, Guernsey Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Group for over 20 years, 16 of 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg and the Isle of Man.
Resident in Board, President of the Energy which as Managing Director of its S. r. l. Resident in the UK.
Institute and as a Governor of Jersey operations.
Peter Wagner 63 Steven Wilderspin 40 Paul Waller 54 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Worked for Kuehne & Nagel in Principal of Wilderspin Managing Partner, Funds, at Switzerland, the US and Germany Independent Governance, which 3i Group, with specific from 1977 to 1989, latterly as provides independent offshore responsibility for fundraising CFO.
Subsequently worked for fund directorship services, since and managing 3i Groups global Danzas Holding AG from 1989 April 2007 and managing director relationships with the fund until 2001, latterly as CEO and of Active Services Jersey investor community.
Member of also as a member of the board of Limited, a member of the Active the 3i Group management management of Deutsche Post Group which provides specialist committee, director of AG.
Retired from Danzas in 2001 regulatory compliance support and 3i Investments and chair of the and took up a number of nonoffshore fund consultancy 3i Group investment committee.
executive positions, which have services, since September 2007.
Previously a director and chairman included serving as a director of Previously a director of Maples of the European Private Equity & Swiss International Airlines Limited Finance Jersey Limited.
Served on Venture Capital Association and 2002, as chairman of Vontobel a number of private equity, chairman of the Investor Relations Holding AG and Bank Vontobel property and hedge fund boards Committee.
Paul Waller is a from 2001 to 2005, as a as well as special purpose 3i Group nominee.
Resident in director of Neptune Orient Lines companies engaged in structured the UK.
of Singapore since 2005 and as finance transactions.
Before that, a director of Kaiser Ritter Partner from 1997, acted as Head of Holding Anstalt and Kaiser Ritter Accounting at Perpetual Fund Partner Privatbank, Vaduz, Management Jersey Limited.
Principality of Liechtenstein since Qualified Chartered Accountant.
2006 and as its chairman from Resident in Jersey.
