20 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Profile of senior members of the investment advisory team Cressida Hogg Managing Neil King Partner, Phil White Partner, Girish Baliga Partner, Partner, Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Infrastructure Cressida Hogg co-founded 3i Neil King has responsibility for the Phil White has overall responsibility Girish Baliga jointly leads 3i Groups Groups Infrastructure business investment advisory teams for the management of 3i Groups infrastructure investment business with Michael Queen in 2005. investment origination and infrastructure investment in India with Samir Palod.
He is She took over the role of appraisal activities in Europe and portfolio.
In this role he works responsible for making and Managing Partner from Michael North America.
He has worked on closely with the management managing investments on behalf in January 2009 following his most current investments and has teams of the businesses in which of the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, appointment as CEO of 3i Group.
had a leading role ensuring a 3i Infrastructure invests.
in which 3i Infrastructure has a Cressida is responsible for consistent approach to Phil sits on the boards of several strategic stake.
Girish joined managing the global infrastructure infrastructure investment across portfolio companies including 3i Group in 2005, and brought investment team, and leads the all offices.
Neil joined 3i Group in AWG and Oiltanking.
Phil brings with him extensive investment advisory relationship with the 2005, bringing with him more 20 years of investment, advisory experience from previous roles independent Board of 3i than 15 years of infrastructure and financing experience to this at Chryscapital and Whitefield Infrastructure.
Cressida oversees project financing experience from role, including from Macquarie, Capital.
all aspects of 3i Groups roles at Innisfree, WestLB, Barclays WestLB and Barclays.
infrastructure investment Capital and Lloyds Bank.
business, including investment appraisal, portfolio management and investor relations activities.
She also represents the Companys interests by sitting on the Board of AWG.
Cressida has 15 years investment experience with 3i, having previously worked in the UK growth and buyout businesses.
Samir Palod Partner, Stephen Halliwell CFO, Anil Ahuja Managing Partner, Infrastructure Infrastructure Head of Asia Samir joined 3i Groups Growth Stephen Halliwell is the Chief Anil Ahuja is responsible for Capital business in Mumbai in Financial Officer for 3i Groups overseeing 3i Groups businesses 2005, before transferring to the infrastructure investment in Asia, including the development infrastructure team in 2008. business.
He manages all of of 3i Groups Indian business.
He has worked on infrastructure the operational, financial and As such he works closely with investments for 3i Group such as reporting requirements for the Cressida, Girish and Samir, and is Mundra Port.
Prior to joining 3i infrastructure business within involved in all investments made Group, Samir worked for 10 years 3i Group, as well as performing by the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
with Citigroups banking and CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure.
Prior to joining 3i Group in 2005, investment banking arms in India, Stephen was previously Head of Anil worked at JP Morgan Partners and also has experience from roles Financial Planning and Analysis in Asia, overseeing the investments at Asian Capital Partners and 3i Groups Finance Team and in the Indian market, and at Arthur Andersen.
Operations Director for 3i Groups Citibank Mumbai.
Anil currently businesses in the Benelux serves on the Board of several of countries.
Stephen qualified as a 3i Groups investments in India, chartered accountant while at including Vijai Electricals and Binder Hamlyn London and Nimbus Communications Limited.
