Global reach, local understanding BRITISH ISLES CONTINENTAL EUROPE AMERICAS Aberdeen Head office Amsterdam Philadelphia Edinburgh Brussels So Paulo Glasgow Budapest Toronto Jersey Copenhagen London Frankfurt Philadelphia is our hub for North Geneva America and includes fixed income As our home market, we have several Helsinki and US equity teams.
We manage over offices around the British Isles.
By Luxembourg 22.1 billion on behalf of US clients.
AuM, 29% of our clients are based Milan Philadelphia is also the base for US in the British Isles, accounting for Oslo client servicing and consultant relations 41.9 billion.
The city of Aberdeen Paris staff.
With the US mutual fund range is our headquarters, and where we Stockholm acquired from Nationwide, we now have locate many Group functions including St Petersburg a strong platform on which to service legal, group information and human Zurich institutional and wholesale channels.
resources: London is the investment So Paulo and Toronto offices centre for UK & European equity Our presence across Continental were opened in October and and fixed income teams, our largest Europe is growing significantly, further November respectively.
office by number of staff, and where enhanced by the recent acquisition of we locate most UK client servicing certain businesses from Credit Suisse.
Amsterdam is a key marketing office for the Dutch pensions market and also Edinburgh is the investment centre European property clients.
The Frankfurt for global equity, multi-asset and office was opened in January 2007 structured product teams, as well as to develop our business with German the company secretarial teams for institutions.
The Nordic region is the the UK investment trust range.
base of operations for much of our global property capability.
Luxembourg is the domicile for the Aberdeen Global fund range.
Continental Europe now accounts for 37% of group AuM.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC AUSTRALIA The Middle East and Africa are Bangkok Melbourne important sources of institutional Hong Kong Sydney funds, and we have strong client bases Kuala Lumpur which we service from London.
We Shanghai With 75 employees and 10.1 billion currently manage over 11.2 billion of Singapore invested by Australian clients in our assets for institutional and sovereign Taipei products, the Groups Australian wealth entities in those regions.
Tokyo operation has a sizeable presence in this relatively sophisticated The Asian headquarters of the Group retirement savings market.
Our funds is in Singapore, and is home to most in Australia offer local investors a of our Asian fund managers covering comprehensive choice of domestic, the main asset classes, as well as to regional, global and emerging market substantial marketing, client servicing investments.
Additionally, we manage and administrative functions: over 155 a range of specialist mandates in staff in all.
Other full service offices fixed income and equities and an are in Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur and investment company that is listed Bangkok, plus we have research and on the Australian Stock Exchange.
client servicing in North Asia.
Asian clients account for 7.0 billion of AuM and our investment in Asian securities, both equities and fixed income, is a core competence for the group.
We know global markets from the local level As a group, we have the scale to provide upwards, drawing on over 1,850 staff, across global coverage of financial markets: 31 offices in 24 countries.
yet we are small enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
We believe our focus, size and approach enable us to provide effective asset management and Close-knit teams, clear investment processes superior client service.
and flat structures are important to us.
Our teams champion original thinking and We seek to grow our clients assets in a way knowledge, so investment decisions are based that is manageable and sustainable over the only on our own research.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 33
