What we do At Aberdeen, asset management is our business.
We operate independently and only manage assets for third parties, allowing us to focus solely on their needs, without conflicts of interest.
We now manage over 146.2 billion of third party assets from our offices around the world.
Our clients access our investment expertise across the three asset classes: equities, fixed income and property.
We package our skills in the form of segregated and pooled products across borders.
We invest worldwide and follow a predominantly long-only approach, based on fundamentally sound investments - we do not chase market fads.
Our investment teams are based in the markets or regions in which they invest.
Clients understand our process and portfolios because they are transparent.
Find out more about us through our website at aberdeen-asset.
com Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Equities Bottom-up investment style, emphasising company fundamentals Team approach, with asset managers based in the regions where we invest Low portfolio turnover, buying stocks and holding them for the long term First-hand research is central to our process No investment without interviewing the companys management first Aberdeens mainstream equity process dates from the early 1990s and we believe our advantage lies in the consistency of our approach, irrespective of market conditions.
From the company visits and analysis carried out regionally, through to portfolio construction decisions, we adopt a team approach.
Cross-coverage of securities locally ensures objectivity: we avoid cultivating star managers.
Diversification at the stock level is our main control of risk.
We aim to add value by capitalising on original research.
We see equity risk in terms of investing in a poor quality company, or overpaying for a good one.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown UK North America Company visit note Risk 3.2bn 2.2bn controls Specialist equities 4.8bn STEP STEP STEP Asia 1 2 3 Pacific Global 17.7bn EAFE Aberdeen Price Portfolio 9.8bn Quality universe Cheap or Pass or fail?
construction expensive Global Europe ex UK Potential Watchlist Monitor emerging markets 1.4bn revisit 11.6bn review Total 50.7bn 2008: 32.6bn As at 30 September 2009 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Active management Long-term focus We aim to add value by identifying good quality Our mainstream strategies are simple: we buy and hold, add stocks, defined chiefly in terms of management and on price dips and take profits on price rises.
This reduces business model, which are attractively priced.
Good transaction costs and keeps portfolios focused.
We rarely stockpicking is the key to our performance.
We downplay pursue short-term returns for mainstream equity strategies, benchmarks in portfolio construction since these albeit for specialist portfolios, activity may be more dynamic.
provide little clue to future performance.
Our asset managers avoid businesses that they do not understand Team approach or those with discriminatory shareholder structures.
We employ around 140 equity investment professionals globally.
Portfolio decisions are made collectively, and we Proprietary research avoid cultivating star fund managers.
Cross-coverage of Our mainstream equity managers always visit companies securities also increases objectivity and lessens reliance before investing, making thousands of visits annually on individuals.
to existing and prospective holdings.
Every contact is documented in detail.
If a security fails our screens, we will not own it, irrespective of its index weight.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Fixed income Active management, operating globally, in a transparent and accountable structure, within a risk framework Multiple sources of added value improve the risk-return profile Specialist teams working independently within their area of expertise Local presence in London, Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney Strong derivatives capability to assist implementation of both active and liability matching strategies We believe outperformance should be generated within a risk framework, adding value through multiple uncorrelated sources to create natural diversification.
As such, our fixed income structure comprises independent alpha teams who are charged with generating investment ideas and outperformance in their own area of specialisation, with their investment universes being as unconstrained as possible.
Our global product team is responsible for capturing all these investment ideas into specific client portfolios, working within individual client portfolio guidelines.
Team members meet to discuss portfolios, but are also in continual discussion with the alpha teams to ensure that the best decisions of these teams are implemented across all mandates.
Fixed income investment process Fixed income breakdown 1 2 Money market Emerging markets 13.5bn Portfolio manager Product team 2.5bn Convertibles Agree client risk Sets client Europe ex UK 0.6bn and return investment 5.2bn requirements strategy Currency Asia Pacific overlay 9.3bn 1.6bn Global Evaluating risk 8.8bn at every step High yield 4 3 0.7bn Product Alpha US team teams UK 10.1bn Risk budgeting, Idea generation 12.9bn review and in an unconstrained oversight universe Total 65.2bn 2008: 46.9bn As at 30 September 2009 10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Active management Team approach We aim to add value by exploiting market inefficiencies in We employ over 130 investment professionals across our interest rates, currency, investment grade credit, emerging teams.
They invest within clearly delineated parameters, market debt and high yield.
We have dedicated portfolio with defined reporting lines.
Our team structure is based managers and analysts in the three main time zones.
They operate as close-knit teams, with investment decisionmaking devolved to specialists, based on their knowledge Diverse solutions and expertise.
Many clients are moving to higher performance or core plus mandates.
Another trend is the move away from marketFlexible and disciplined investment process based indices and the use of liability driven benchmarks.
Our investment structure enables us not only to follow We aim to deliver performance across the full range of our a disciplined investment process but also to be flexible fixed income capabilities.
We also use derivatives, such as in managing portfolios for a wide variety of client interest rate and credit default swaps, to add value and also requirements.
This may range from strategies which to match liability exposures.
employ multiple sources of uncorrelated returns to those that are focused on a particular specialist area.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 s n o i t c a s n a r T r e n l T a o t e t i e n t i s c o a s e n n A l s t e s h i p Property An active property investment manager Unrivalled local presence in key international markets Separate accounts and collective funds, including funds-of-funds Disciplined investment process, supported by research on the ground Team approach, with managers based in the regions where we invest Active management, top-class research, local presence and a rigorous investment process are the means by which we add value to property investment.
We offer a wide range of well-structured property investment vehicles that provide strong risk-adjusted returns and a choice of geographic and sector allocation.
In addition to funds holding direct property, Aberdeen has pioneered the development of funds of property funds, with exposure to Continental Europe and Asia.
The indirect investment management team invests in third party funds, not in direct property and its clients are exclusively institutional investors.
Their philosophy focuses on creating alpha and not on general market exposure.
Property investment process Property breakdown Forecasts Investment Investment Indirect & relative strategy plan funds Direct pricing 2.0bn funds 11.8bn Direct segregated mandates Allocation 8.8bn Selection Management Total 22.6bn 2008: 25.4bn As at 30 September 2009 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 m a n A a s g s e e t m e n t w e i v e R Active management Structured investment process Our understanding of the factors that drive returns stems Our proven investment process links the three essential from our local presence and our dedicated research capability.
disciplines of allocation, selection and asset management.
A unique feature of property is the value that can be added We apply it rigorously to all property sectors and geographies.
by active asset management, and selecting assets with this Our principle is to combine advanced top-down research with potential enables a skilful investment manager to create alpha a pragmatic, but structured, bottom-up approach from our and outperform the market.
The former focuses on managing beta, or portfolio risk, the latter on creating alpha.
Local presence Delivering risk-adjusted returns Active property investment requires a local presence.
We have expanded in Europes heartland and, through our Singapore We aim to help our institutional clients achieve well office, into Asia.
We now number some 600 professionals diversified property exposure by delivering superior riskbased in 13 countries.
This unrivalled local reach is essential to adjusted returns through funds that offer a clear choice of our understanding of local markets and our commitment to geographic or sectoral exposure.
With our advanced portfolio local decision making.
modelling techniques, we provide an understanding of the risk of different property investments and their place in multi-asset portfolios.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
