Management board Rickard Backlund Rod MacRae Chief Executive Officer, Aberdeen Property Investors Group Head of Risk Rickard joined Aberdeen in 2001 having previously been Rod is responsible for UK and global risk including internal the CEO of Celexa Fastighetskapital from 1998.
He has a audit, regulatory compliance, legal services, business and masters degree in Civil Engineering from The Swedish Royal investment risk and serves as chairman of the group risk Institute of Technology and completed a course in Business management committee.
Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, Administration and Managerial Economics at Ume University.
following the acquisition of Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Rod Rickard is a member of the board of FASTIGO, The Federation graduated with a MA in Economics from the University of of Swedish Real Estate Employers, the board of SIPA, the Edinburgh and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Scandinavian International Property Association and a fellow Accountants of Scotland.
of the RICS, the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Gary Marshall Gordon Brough Head of Collective Funds Global Head of Legal Gary is head of collective funds, chief executive of Aberdeen Gordon joined Aberdeen in February 2009 to head up the Unit Trust Managers Limited and chief executive of Aberdeen Group's legal function having previously been the partner Asset Management Life and Pensions Limited.
He also sits responsible for the Group's affairs at Maclay Murray & Spens on the boards of the Groups Dublin and Luxembourg based LLP.
Prior to its merger with Maclays, Gordon had helped offshore fund ranges.
Gary joined Aberdeen following the found specialist law firm, The City Law Partnership.
Gordon is acquisition of Prolific Financial Management in 1997.
Gary qualified as a lawyer in both Scots and English law.
graduated with a BSc in Actuarial Mathematics and Statistics from Heriot Watt University and is a qualified actuary.
Chris Ellyatt Charles McKenzie Head of Distribution Chris is group head of distribution, overseeing business Deputy Head of Fixed Income development, client service and marketing staff in our offices Charles joined Aberdeen via the acquisition of Deutsche worldwide.
He joined Aberdeen in 2002, initially based in Asset Managements London and Philadelphia fixed income the Singapore office before moving to London in 2003.
Charles was head of UK fixed income at has over 20 years experience in financial services sales and Deutsche Asset Management in London which he joined in marketing, having worked previously for HSBC, James Capel 1993.
Previously, Charles worked at Global Asset Management and BZW, focused predominantly on Asian and Emerging as a fixed income portfolio manager.
Chris was educated at the University of London a BSc from Southampton University and an MBA in Finance where he obtained an MSc in Development Studies from the from London City University Business School.
School of Oriental and African studies.
Anne Richards Ken Fry Chief Investment Officer Chief Operating Officer Anne is chief investment officer and head of multi-asset Ken Fry graduated from the University of Essex with a BA in investment.
Anne was chief investment officer and joint Computer Science and joined Aberdeen with the acquisition managing director of Edinburgh Fund Managers, which of Fredericks Place Holdings in 1989 as group IT manager.
He was acquired by Aberdeen in 2003.
Prior to joining EFM, was appointed to the Group management board in 2006 and Anne worked for Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
Anne to his current role in 2008. graduated in Electronics and Electrical Engineering from the University of Edinburgh and has an MBA from Insead.
Paul Griffiths Hugh Young Global Head of Fixed Income Paul is the global head of fixed income having joined Aberdeen Global Head of Equities in July 2009 via the acquisition of the Credit Suisse Asset Hugh is managing director of Aberdeen Asset Management Management business, where he was chief operating officer Asia Limited, the Groups regional HQ, and is also group head and head of fixed income.
Paul previously held a similar role of equities.
He co-founded Singapore based Aberdeen Asia in at AXA Investment Managers, as well as being its UK chief 1992, having been recruited in 1985 to manage Asian Equities executive officer.
Paul graduated with a BSc in Physics from from London.
Hugh graduated with a BA in Politics from the University of York.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 37
