Corporate governance report Throughout the year ended 30 September 2009, the Company The chairman of the remuneration committee, Sir Malcolm has been in compliance with the code provisions set out Rifkind, has been asked, and has agreed, to remain on the in section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Board for the present time and we anticipate appointing Governance the Code.
This report describes Aberdeens a new chairman of the remuneration committee over corporate governance arrangements, explaining how we have the course of the next reporting period.
Giles Weaver, applied the principles of the Code.
a long serving member of both the audit committee and the remuneration committee, has also been asked, and has agreed, to remain on the Board for the present The Board time in order to provide additional continuity on each The Board currently comprises the chairman, seven nonof the committees on which he currently serves.
executive directors and three executive directors.
Roger Cornick was appointed chairman having previously served The Board would thereafter expect to make further as an independent non-executive director, following the appointments at appropriate intervals in future years retirement of Charles Irby at the conclusion of the Annual so as to continue to provide an appropriate balance General Meeting on 22 January 2009.
Simon Troughton was between independent, executive and representative appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009: Gerhard Fusenig was board members, and to reduce the risk in future of board appointed on 8 October 2009: and Kenichi Miyanaga was members leaving simultaneously.
As in previous years, appointed on 26 November 2009.
All other members of the the Board has conducted an internal evaluation of its Board served throughout the year.
The roles of the chairman effectiveness but intends to conduct an external evaluation and chief executive are separate, clearly defined and have during the year to 30 September 2010.
In reviewing been approved by the Board.
The chairman, Roger Cornick, the Code, the Board considers that, save for Messrs is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and for Fusenig and Miyanaga, the non-executive directors are all shareholder relations, while the chief executive, Martin Gilbert, independent, notwithstanding that three of their number is responsible for the day to day management of the Group.
will have served in excess of nine years on the Board.
Donald Waters continues as the senior independent director.
Giles Weaver joined the Board following the acquisition of the Murray Johnstone Group MJ in November 2000.
In considering director independence, the Board has taken Mr Weaver was formerly an executive director of MJ until into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
The December 1999, following which he became chairman of chairman, as advised above, was appointed on 22 January MJ until its acquisition.
In addition, Mr Weaver is a member 2009, and the Board has also had regard to the fact that a of the Murray Johnstone Limited Retirement Benefits Plan.
further three directors will have served nine years by the time On a literal interpretation of the guidance in the Code, he of the 2010 Annual General Meeting, including the chairmen was never an executive of Aberdeen nor of any subsidiary of the audit and remuneration committees.
while it has been a member of the Aberdeen Group but, in The Board has been strengthened during the year by seeking to apply the spirit as well as the letter of the Code, the appointment of Simon Troughton, an independent the Board chose not to regard Giles Weaver as independent non-executive and, subsequent to the year end, by two until 2004.
A full nine years having now passed since his representatives of our largest shareholders.
The Board has appointment, and taking into consideration his independence considered the situation very carefully and has decided that it of character and judgement, the Board reiterates its view is not in the best interests of the Company, or its shareholders, that Giles Weaver is an independent non-executive director.
to lose a total of four directors during 2009, three of whom chaired each of the board committees, and has decided to make an orderly change to its directorate.
We have a new Board chairman in place, who also chairs the nominations committee and we will announce shortly the appointment to the Board of a new independent non-executive director who will become chairman of the audit committee and who will shadow Donald Waters until the conclusion of the 2010 audit, after which Donald will retire from the Board.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 51 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Donald Waters continues to chair the audit committee The company secretary, under the direction of the chairman, effectively and to act as a member of the Board with a high is responsible for facilitating this induction programme, degree of independence of character and judgement and the ensuring good information flow between the Board, its Board is content to record its opinion that Donald Waters committees and management and assisting with directors remains an independent director.
Likewise, Sir Malcolm Rifkind continuing professional development needs.
Directors continues to chair the remuneration committee effectively are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of the and also to act as a member of the Board with a high legal and other duties and obligations arising from the degree of independence of character and judgement and the role of director of a listed company and are reminded Board is also content to record its opinion that Sir Malcolm of these duties and obligations on a regular basis.
Prior to the appointment Directors appointed during the year are required to seek of Messrs Fusenig and Miyanaga, representing two of our election at the first Annual General Meeting following their major shareholders, the Board confirms that it has authorised appointment and all directors have submitted themselves for any conflict or potential conflict in accordance with the re-election by shareholders at intervals of no more than three Company's existing procedures and has put in place a set of years.
Details of the attendance of individual directors are specific guidelines since their appointments to address any shown in the table below.
potential conflicts that may arise in the future.
Maximum possible Meetings Biographical details of directors can be found on pages attendance attended 34 to 36.
Charles Irby 3 3 The Board met eight times during the year to review financial Donald Waters 8 8 performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of Roger Cornick 8 8 matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting of Company goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Anita Frew 8 7 Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 8 formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to directors in Giles Weaver 8 8 advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office directors are continually updated, by means of written and Martin Gilbert 8 8 verbal reports from senior executives and external advisers, Bill Rattray 8 8 on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory Andrew Laing 8 8 environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
Simon Troughton 1 1 In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number of briefings and presentations from senior executives, local Performance evaluation management and external advisers during the year covering The Board has established a formal process, led by the a wide range of topics across the range of the Groups chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of business.
The Board also has a policy of making periodic visits the board, its appointed committees and each director, to to the Groups key overseas offices in order to meet local ensure that they continue to act effectively and efficiently management and clients and to obtain an understanding and to fulfil their respective duties, and to identify any of the local business environment.
The Board visited the training requirements.
Copenhagen and Singapore offices during the year.
A tailored questionnaire, taking into account developments All directors have access to independent professional over the year and including specific references to the advice, if required, at the Companys expense as well as objectives of the Board and its committees, was completed to the advice and services of the company secretary.
The responses were analysed and the results directors appointed to the board receive a full, formal and were subsequently discussed at meetings of the committees tailored induction, which includes meetings with relevant and of the Board, as well as in individual discussions between members of senior management, in order to help them gain the chairman and each director.
Additionally, the nona detailed understanding of the Group and its activities.
executive directors held a meeting without the executive directors present at which executive directors performance was discussed.
52 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The non-executive directors also met without the chairman The committee met on a number of occasions during the year present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the including three formal meetings and details of the attendance chairmans performance, having taken into consideration of individual members are shown in the table below.
the views of the executive directors, and the results of this Maximum possible Meetings meeting were subsequently discussed between the senior attendance attended non-executive director and the chairman.
Charles Irby 1 1 Roger Cornick 2 2 Board committees Donald Waters 3 3 The Board has appointed the following committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
All of these committees operate Sir Malcolm Rifkind 3 3 on written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which are available on the Companys website, and the chairman of each committee reports to each meeting of the Audit committee Board.
Each of the committees is authorised to obtain, at the The audit committee is chaired by Donald Waters and he Companys expense, external legal or other professional advice is supported by two independent non-executive directors, to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of each Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
All served on the committee committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such throughout the year.
The Board is satisfied that all of the as senior management and external advisers, may be invited committees members have recent and relevant commercial to attend as appropriate.
and financial knowledge and experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their having held various Current membership of the committees is shown in the executive and non-executive roles in investment management directors biographies on pages 34 to 36.
The composition and business management.
Additionally, Donald Waters and of these committees is reviewed annually, taking into Giles Weaver are both chartered accountants.
consideration the recommendations of the nominations committee.
The committees role is to assist the board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal Nominations committee control and risk management, and the appointment and remuneration of independent external auditors.
The The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and committee is also responsible for reviewing the scope he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, and results of audit work and its cost effectiveness and Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Donald Waters.
Roger Cornick was the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
In appointed as chairman of the committee following his order to safeguard the objectivity and independence appointment as chairman of the Board on 22 January 2009. of the auditors, the committee has approved a Both Sir Malcolm and Donald served on the committee comprehensive policy to regulate the provision of nonthroughout the year.
audit services by the Groups external auditors.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size The policy provides details of the types of service which and composition of the Board and for recommending new are and are not permitted and those which require the members for appointment to the Board.
The Board as a whole explicit prior approval of the committee.
Permitted nonhas responsibility for the appointment of new directors and audit services include: the provision of tax compliance for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first services: the provision of certain recruitment services: opportunity following their appointment.
The committee is and acting as reporting accountant in appropriate also responsible for giving due consideration to succession circumstances, provided there is no element of valuation planning for the Board and other senior executives and for work involved.
The provision of tax advisory services, due making recommendations to the Board.
diligence transaction services and litigation services may During the year the committee reviewed the proposals for be permitted with the committees prior approval.
The rotation and re-election of directors at the Annual General provision of internal audit services, valuation work and Meeting: considered and made recommendations to the Board any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of for the appointment of a new chairman and new members self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
of the Board: discussed the results of the annual performance The committee also has responsibility for reviewing the evaluation exercise and noted the satisfactory operations Companys arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring of the committee: and reviewed its terms of reference.
that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 53 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED During the year the committee discharged its responsibilities, Details of the attendance of the individual members of the under its terms of reference, by: committee during the year are shown in the table below.
a reviewing the Groups draft 2008 financial statements Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended and 2009 interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board and reviewing the external Donald Waters 4 4 auditors detailed reports thereon: Anita Frew 4 4 b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Group's Giles Weaver 4 4 accounting policies: c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Remuneration committee Groups 2009 financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees Rifkind, and he is supported by three independent nonfor the 2009 audit: executive directors, Anita Frew, Simon Troughton and Giles Weaver.
Simon Troughton was appointed to the committee d making recommendations to the board for a resolution during the year and replaced Roger Cornick following his to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment appointment as chairman of the Board.
of the external auditors: The role of the committee is to monitor, review and make e reviewing managements annual report on the Groups recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting policy, as set out in the Report on pages 41 to 50, and to make to the Board on the results of this review and receiving recommendations to the board on the remuneration packages regular updates on key risks and controls: of the executive directors and other senior employees of the f reviewing the internal audit department terms of Group.
The committee is also responsible for approving the reference, its work programme and regular reports on its design of all share incentive plans and for recommending their work during the year: approval by the Board and by shareholders.
The remuneration committee held nine formal meetings during the year and g receiving reports from the chairman of the Group risk details of the attendance of the individual members of the management committee: committee are shown in the table below.
In addition, and in h reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying accordance with the requirements of its terms of reference, out an annual performance evaluation exercise and the members of the committee were also consulted on a noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
range of issues during the year, including specific matters related to both recruitment and redundancy.
Subsequent to the year end the Company carried out a review of its corporate governance arrangements.
The Board agreed Maximum possible Meetings that it would be in the shareholders' and the Company's best attendance attended interests if a separate risk committee was established to review Sir Malcolm Rifkind 9 9 and monitor all aspects of the Company's risks.
This committee Roger Cornick 8 8 will be chaired by a non-executive director and will operate under formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
It is Anita Frew 9 9 expected that this committee will commence in early 2010.
Giles Weaver 9 9 The committee receives regular reports from the Groups Simon Troughton 1 1 external and internal auditors and can, and does, request supplementary reports from management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms of reference.
The committee Management board met four times during the year, with representatives of The operational management of the Group is delegated by senior management and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance the Board to the management board which comprises the at each meeting.
executive directors and other heads of department.
Brief biographies of its members are provided on page 37.
The management board meets three times each month, has specific terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and has responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy.
54 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The system of internal controls is embedded within the day Relationships with shareholders to day operations of the Group and is inherent to the Groups The Company places great importance on communication culture which emphasises clear management responsibility with investors and aims to keep shareholders informed and accountabilities.
by means of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the The risk management committee, operating under terms year.
Annual and interim reports and interim management of reference approved by the Board, drives the process of statements are widely distributed to other parties who reporting and managing critical risks, issues and high priority may have an interest in the Groups performance and these projects.
It serves to reconcile the key risks and issues being documents are also made available on the Companys website.
identified by management with those identified by the The chief executive and finance director make regular reports Groups monitoring functions.
Additionally, the committee to the Board on investor relations and on specific discussions monitors the Groups capital requirements as part of the with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of internal capital adequacy assessment process and in line all research published on the Company.
Private investors are with regulatory expectations.
Membership of the committee encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which comprises executive directors, senior management and the they have an opportunity to ask questions.
heads of departments that fall within the risk division The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all The primary monitoring functions sit within the Groups risk directors, and the chairmen of the audit, nominations division and comprise the compliance, legal, internal audit, and remuneration committees are all available to answer business risk and investment risk departments.
The senior independent director is always available ensures effective controls are implemented and regularly to shareholders if they have concerns which contact reviewed in adherence to regulatory requirements in each through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive jurisdiction in which the Group operates, while legal is or finance director has failed to resolve or for which such responsible for ensuring that the Group complies with contact is inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer statutory requirements globally.
Internal audit reviews the major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of effectiveness of all controls, either by reviewing the methods the chairman, the senior independent director and any new and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, directors.
The Group will continue its policy of announcing or by directly auditing the controls operated by management.
the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual Business risk is responsible for the oversight and management General Meeting and any other general meetings.
of operational and counterparty risk, the latter being particularly focused on derivative markets and instruments, thus reflecting the increasing size and complexity of the Internal control Group.
Independent oversight of the risks within the strategies The Board recognises the importance of a robust risk employed by the various investment teams is provided by management solution to safeguard company and client assets, investment risk.
The heads of these functions each report protect the interests of shareholders and stakeholders and to the group head of risk who, in turn, reports to the chief meet its responsibilities as a UK listed and regulated fund executive and also attends and reports at meetings of the management company.
The head of internal audit, however, primarily reports Consequently, Board members, together with management, to the audit committee and has unrestricted access to the have taken steps to build and continually improve an effective chairman of the audit committee.
risk management framework that includes a sound system of A summary of significant risks, key internal controls and internal controls.
Responsibility lies with the risk management findings arising from the risk management framework and committee for embedding the framework within the business the work of the monitoring functions is reported annually in a and providing assurance to the Board that risks and issues are formal risk control report to the Board.
Identifying, evaluating adequately monitored and managed.
The Board is ultimately and managing the Groups significant risks is an ongoing responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and process which is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been the ongoing management of significant matters see also in place throughout the year to 30 September 2009 and up to Audit Committee above.
the date of approval of these financial statements.
The internal controls are designed to cover all risks that might impede its achievement as an asset management group including all business, operational, reputational, financial and regulatory compliance risks.
The internal controls are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 55 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Corporate responsibility voting As part of the Groups corporate responsibility CR, the The Group invests for its clients' portfolios in companies Board takes account of the significance of environmental, globally and actively targets those companies with sound social and governance ESG matters that are of importance corporate governance practices as investments.
Primary responsibility for these matters rests is committed to exercising responsible ownership with with Andrew Laing, the deputy chief executive, however a conviction that companies adopting best practices in reporting to the Board will come from a number of sources corporate governance will be more successful in their core including the Group risk division via the Groups automated activities and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
The Board has identified and The Group also provides socially responsible investment assessed the significant ESG risks to the Groups short and services to meet the demand from clients who want long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value their investments to reflect an ethical bias.
During the that may arise from an appropriate response.
year under review, the Group engaged in dialogue with in excess of 80 companies to improve our understanding of The Board confirms that it has received adequate information their ESG issues.
The Group has codified and published its to make this assessment and that account is taken of the ESG policy on corporate governance in relation to companies matters in the induction and training of directors.
The Board is in which it has invested or is considering investing and on of the opinion that the Group has in place effective systems voting at shareholder meetings of investee companies.
for managing and mitigating significant risks which, where Full details are available on the Group website.
relevant, incorporate performance management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
Employees As previously stated, the most important ESG matters of The Group has over 1,850 employees worldwide 1,893 relevance to the Group are employee retention and client in 2008 and recognises that their involvement is key to relationships.
On both of these issues, the Board has received the future success of the business.
The practice of keeping specific reports from the executive identifying the risks employees informed on all matters of concern to them, via and the issues and have taken steps to ensure that they email and the Groups internal noticeboard, and ensuring that are managed in an appropriate manner.
In addition, it is all publicly announced documents are circulated internally recognised that the Groups activities do have an impact to all employees, continues.
The Group is also committed to on the environment and in using the results of our recent following good practice in employment matters, recognising environmental audit, the Group remains committed to the part this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
minimising waste and using energy efficiently, thus aiming to reduce the negative impact of our operations on the Employees work hard for the stakeholders and there is a environment.
Full details are available on the Groups website.
remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and individual performance, further details of which are contained The Group believes that the principles of transparency, in the Remuneration report on pages 41 to 50.
Overall, the fairness, accountability and integrity are fundamental to Group expects staff to learn about the business, its systems the Groups operations.
Under the guidance of the CR and processes, so as to develop their skills and knowledge.
committee, the Group has established five sub-committees One of the Groups values is a focus on teamwork.
We are focusing on employees, health and safety, environment committed to hiring and motivating the most talented people management, suppliers and social and community activities.
Each sub-committee comprises representatives from different divisions and regions.
These sub committees are charged with promoting their specialist interests and to report on such to the board of directors, via the CR committee.
During the year, the Group made strides in its CR programme, including initiating an environmental management system for the Company's UK offices and developing a corporate social responsibility website for the Groups worldwide business.
Further details are available on the Groups website and on the new CR website, at www.
56 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 The Group operates an integrated management development abilities.
For the purposes of training, career development and programme to develop the key competencies needed in promotion, disabled employees, including anyone who may the business and has a challenging graduate development become disabled during the course of his or her employment, programme, which provides the business with a skills and are treated on equal terms with other employees.
There are currently 12 graduates on the operates a zero tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
graduate development programme, six of whom started Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy is available in October 2009.
The graduate development programme on the Companys website and this policy is supplemented provides the opportunity to maximise the individual's by specific policies that reflect local employment legislation experiences in the company, whilst enhancing their skills and and expectations.
Through various rotations around the Group, the programme aims to give individuals a well-rounded view of Health and safety the asset management industry and its related functions.
The Group has in place appropriate health and safety policies Graduates gain experience in a number of departments, which can be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
including performance, internal audit, group marketing, The aim is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe and product development, fixed income, equities and property.
healthy working environment and, with this in mind, an A placement typically lasts three to four months, and gives updated accident reporting process has been developed and the graduate an excellent opportunity to understand the implemented throughout the Group.
The Group is committed function of each department and to add significant value.
to adhering to the high standards of health and safety set The Group promotes the importance of high ethical standards out by its policies and procedures and to provide training to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice any as necessary.
concerns they may have, either direct with management or on a confidential basis via the whistle blowing process.
Environment The Group continues to promote energy efficiency and the Equal opportunities avoidance of waste throughout its operations.
The Group The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities, has again carried out an environmental audit, this time both for existing employees and for new applicants, and covering all our main offices worldwide, in order to obtain seeks to ensure that the workforce reflects, as far as is key performance indicator data and to be able to provide practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which comment on the Groups environmental performance.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair The Group remains committed to using energy efficiently consideration to applications for employment from disabled and minimising waste, thus aiming to reduce the negative persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and impact of our operations on the environment.
Energy consumption Mwh Water consumption cubic metres 6000 12 4000 12 Total energy consumption LHS Total water consumption LHS Energy consumption per employee RHS Water consumption per employee RHS 3500 5000 10 3000 9 4000 8 2500 3000 2000 6 6 1500 2000 4 1000 3 1000 2 500 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2008 2009 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 57 CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Energy consumption Social and community activities We continue to look closely at our energy use, recognising We undertook a review at the beginning of the year of that this is one of the most significant impacts that our the Groups charitable giving policy which concluded that operations have on the environment.
We have implemented a our three-pronged policy - to support causes local to our number of initiatives to conserve energy, including the use of offices, national in the countries in which we operate and low energy lighting and implementing a switch off policy and international - was working well and reflected our flat we remain committed to reducing our energy usage across all management structure which facilitates local decision making.
Whilst we do not have access to data on energy Our over-arching strategy on charitable giving will remain consumption across all our offices due, primarily, to shared broadly the same, with a focus on community groups, health, occupancy, we have data for our largest UK office, in London children and older people.
and this is detailed on page 57.
We are currently working with the Charities Aid Foundation to During the financial year under review, 195 staff in expand payroll giving across the Group and a new employee Aberdeen relocated to a new purpose built office in the volunteering programme is scheduled to be rolled out to offer centre of Aberdeen: 64 staff in Conshohocken relocated employees the opportunity to volunteer to assist a favoured to our main offices in central Philadelphia and, in London, local charity for up to two days per annum.
we have taken the lease of Bow Bells House, a new build, We have continued to support staff charitable activities, and all our 400 employees moved in after the end of mainly sporting events, including Race for Life, the Rob Roy the financial year under review.
We expect that these Challenge, Help for Heroes Battlefield Bike Ride and the relocations will minimise our energy usage and wastage London Marathon.
As well as offering financial support to and, in particular for the two relocations in Aberdeen and charities and various activities, we have also been offering London, will allow us to benefit from the latest technologies assistance in kind, such as printing services, auction prizes on energy consumption and resource utilisation and and the use of our offices for fund-raising events and other which we anticipate will, over the long term, assist in meetings.
We also continue to donate computer equipment our aim of reducing the Groups energy consumption.
to the Strongbones Childrens Charitable Trust.
This is now year two of our five year commitment to support the first Water consumption Information and Support Worker for North East Scotland for the Parkinsons Disease Society PDS.
We are all conscious of the global need to conserve water and we have established a number of initiatives to encourage this, including the use of sensors in taps and reduced flow mechanisms.
While we do not have access to data on water consumption across all our offices due, primarily, to shared occupancy, we have data for our largest UK office, in London and this is detailed on page 57.
We remain committed to reducing water consumption, per employee, on an annual basis.
58 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009
