Managers Report In ASCoTs nineteen year history, 2009 ranks as both the best year of absolute performance from the HGSC XIC and the worst year of relative performance for ASCoT.
Whereas the benchmarks total return was 60.7%, ASCoT produced a return of 44.4%.
This was nevertheless its third best ever annual return in absolute terms.
Large companies meanwhile performed less well, though the 30.1% total return from the FTSE All-Share stands out in its own historical context.
The following paragraphs explain the strong performance of the benchmark in 2009 before moving on to address the relative returns from ASCoT.
Small companies The HGSC XIC s rise in 2009 has to be viewed against the background of the previous years substantial decline of 40.8%: over the two year period the total return from the benchmark has been 4.9%.
Entering 2009, the market was confronted by a recession that was exacerbated by an unprecedented credit crunch descent into depression was a widespread concern.
Risk aversion, reflected in equity valuations and stretched credit market spreads, was at extreme levels in the wake of Lehmans collapse.
Governments and central banks were in the middle of unleashing substantial fiscal and monetary stimuli, which went on to enter the uncharted territory of quantitative easing.
The climate of uncertainty persisted for much of the first quarter and was reflected in company results that were characterised by deep cost cutting and sharp reductions in dividends.
However, in mid March, small company share prices hit their lows for the year, from which they went on to bounce by 73%.
This recovery has been based on improving fundamentals.
The global economy has bottomed and subsequently started to pick up.
A majority of major economies have now exited recession, with the UK, as yet, a notable exception.
As the year progressed, businesses saw destocking come to an end and the start of tentative restocking in the latter part of the year.
Sustainable demand levels remain unclear, but the combination of restocking and sharply reduced cost bases promises a period of good profits growth moving into 2010.
At the same time, the extreme risk aversion of 2008 has eased.
Important in this regard have been the conventional and unconventional activities of central banks to influence the cost of borrowing.
Notwithstanding the banks focus on repairing their own balance sheets, this has filtered through financial markets, bringing many spreads in the credit markets back to levels that prevailed before the failure of Lehman.
Waning risk aversion has also been evident in equity markets, which have been led upwards by smaller companies and emerging markets, traditionally considered to be at the riskier end of equity investment.
Though more powerful, the risk rally of 2009 is thus reminiscent of 2003, when the markets bounced strongly on recovery from the USs mini-recession at the start of the decade.
A catalyst for this rediscovered appetite for risk was the preparedness of equity investors to finance the substantial volume of rights issues and placings from highly geared companies.
Within the small company universe, this flood of re-equitisation started at the end of January, when valuations were at levels that suggested many UK businesses could go under.
While the banks often retain rather too much influence, the removal of the risk of imminent failure added longevity to the equity of these geared companies and justified a re-rating from what were extremely low valuations of historical earnings.
Indeed, the historically low valuations that characterised the small cap universe are perhaps the most important way to understand the strong rally enjoyed by the benchmark.
The HGSC XIC came into 2009 valued on a historical PE of 6.4x and a yield of 5.9%, on both measures the cheapest over ASCoTs history.
Clearly, a proportion of this apparent cheapness was justified by the sharp drops in earnings and dividends that companies went on to report as the year progressed: the lowest historical PEs were certainly to be found among those companies that were characterised by the unpleasant cocktail of falling profits, high debts and pension fund deficits.
However, with the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that these low valuations were overplaying the risk of descent into depression.
The subsequent stabilisation and even improvement in economic and credit conditions have therefore provided the basis of a powerful re-rating that took the historical PE up to 11.2x and the yield down to 2.7% by the end of the year.
ASCoTs relative performance An understanding of the mechanics of the benchmark, the HGSC XIC, is a useful starting place for an explanation of ASCoTs relative performance.
The HGSC XIC comprises those companies that make up the bottom 10% of the market capitalisation of the total UK market, excluding AIM.
At the end of 2009, this definition resulted in a ceiling of 1.188bn: in other words, any company with a market capitalisation of 1.188bn or less at 31 December 2009 is a member of the HGSC XIC in 2010.
The benchmark is 7 Managers Report rebalanced just once a year, on 1 January.
Ordinarily, this rebalancing exercise is rather low key, with turnover of perhaps half a dozen companies.
In 2009 it was not ordinary: 40 companies were relegated to the rebalanced HGSC XIC.
As described in the interim report, these companies represented a quarter of the benchmark by value at the start of the year and together enjoyed a total return of 80% in 2009.
However, the typical fallen star exemplified those characteristics that were shunned in 2008: high debts, falling profits, significant pension deficits and reduced dividends.
So, in aggregate, the share prices of this group of 40 companies fell by almost two thirds in 2008, which was, of course, what cut them down to a size that meant inclusion in 2009s benchmark.
Your managers simulate a rebalanced HGSC XIC through the year, so it was not the case that they were suddenly overwhelmed on 1 January by the surprise inclusion of 40 new companies: the analytical work on these businesses was conducted through the second half of 2008.
Rather, the relevance of the fallen stars to ASCoTs relative performance is their typical characteristics previously described: with equity capital encumbered by substantial debts and pension deficits, this was a riskier than average group of companies.
In contrast, the portfolio came into 2009 with a defensive orientation: the two strong themes detailed in last years annual report were those of robust balance sheets and being paid to wait by a sustainable dividend yield through a downturn of uncertain duration.
While each proved advantageous in 2008, neither helped in 2009: the more rewarding strategy would have been to pursue those companies that combined cut dividends and high levels of debt.
Thus, your managers were too risk averse for the investment climate that developed through 2009.
The irony here is that your managers had been investing in anticipation of a recovery in share prices for some time.
In the second half of 2008, the portfolio was cautiously reoriented towards domestic cyclical sectors and, in May 2008, ASCoT started to take on gearing for only the third time in its history.
At that point, your managers judged that small company valuations were already at a level that discounted recession, but preferred to reflect this in gearing at the trust level across a well diversified portfolio of small companies, rather than exposing capital to individual highly geared businesses.
That judgement was temporarily called into question by the collapse of Lehman and the consequent intensification of the credit crunch.
However, given the rebound in share prices, the decision to gear has proved beneficial in 2009, as is demonstrated in the table below.
For the year ended 31 December 2009 Basis Points Stock selection 1,806 Sector selection 212 Attributable to the portfolio of investments calculated on a mid-price basis 2,018 Impact of mid-price to bid-price 82 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 1 Cash gearing 401 Management fee 91 Other expenses 10 Total attribution based on bid-prices 1,635 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total attribution is the difference between the total return of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 44.38%: Benchmark Index 60.73%: difference is 16.35% being 1,635 basis points.
But if it has not been the stabilisation and subsequent improvement in economic fundamentals, what has surprised your managers?
The short duration of the downturn and the speed of return to the investment behaviours that prevailed before the credit crunch have been startling.
During the UKs last recession, in the early 1990s, small company earnings fell for three consecutive years.
In the present downturn, if analysts are correct, the period of earnings contraction may be confined to just 18 months, despite the accompanying credit crunch.
This itself would be a remarkable outturn.
However, extrapolating from this, the equity valuations of a number of cyclical businesses are already discounting a rapid return to previous peak levels of profitability.
This seems improbable in view of the structural challenges, principally significant levels of debt, faced by many economies.
8 Managers Report The equity issues that have resuscitated a number of distressed small company equities, including a large portion of the fallen stars, have not necessarily provided a long term cure.
The banks and pension fund trustees frequently remain very influential, though this influence on the value due to equity holders might not become manifest until the debt facility next comes up for renewal, or until the outcome of the next triennial pension review is revealed.
The investment strategies that were popular up into the first half of 2008 but that suffered in the second half of that year have returned to favour more quickly than expected.
In particular, commodities have enjoyed a strong revival, as have businesses exposed to Chinas secular growth story.
There is evidence that these may be benefiting from a return of carry trade activity, i. e. borrowing in currencies with low interest rates such as the dollar and investing in riskier, higheryielding assets.
This plays to concerns that an element of the monetary authorities largesse is being diverted directly into asset markets rather than being passed on through the banking system.
General caution about the speed, rather than the reality, of recovery is therefore an important factor in understanding ASCoTs relative performance.
This is reflected in the table above, which shows negative contributions from both stock and sector selection: your managers risk aversion limited the amount of capital exposed to those stocks, and indeed sectors, where highly geared balance sheets were a feature.
Below this over-arching theme, there were other influences at work that provide more colour on the relative performance.
The portfolio contained many stocks that performed well in 2009.
At the end of the year, there were 87 holdings but, over the course of the twelve months, positions were taken in 118 companies.
Of those, 43 out-performed, out of which 15 more than doubled.
However, of the doublers, none sat within the top ten holdings at the start of the year.
This in part reflects the speed with which the markets mood changed in the first quarter in 2009.
But it is also clear that relative performance could have been enhanced by better capital allocation: attractively valued businesses were identified but could have been pushed further up the portfolio.
On the other hand, any stock that suffered an absolute fall in price had a significant impact on relative returns against a benchmark that rose by 60.7%.
Four holdings combined sharp share price declines with top ten positions within the portfolio at the start of the year.
These four thus had a substantial impact on returns.
Two of them were constituents of the Nonlife Insurance sector, which is addressed in the following paragraph.
The negative impact from Sector Selection can be accounted for by Nonlife Insurance, with the contributions from other sectors offsetting each other.
The portfolio was over-weight in Nonlife Insurance, with three holdings at the start of the year.
The sector had performed very well in 2008, actually managing to rise by 15%.
However, what were considered positive attributes in 2008 high sustainable dividend yields, low price to book valuations and little exposure to the general economic cycle came to be perceived as handicaps in 2009 as the market rediscovered its appetite for risk.
The sector therefore under-performed by a wide margin in 2009, with a return of 7%.
This has left its constituents offering some of the most attractive valuations within the HGSC XIC, which argues for maintaining a meaningful exposure to the sector in expectation of another change in the stockmarkets sentiment.
Before the onset of the credit crunch and recession, the UK stockmarket benefited from the phenomenon of fide-equitisation: the stock of quoted equity capital shrank between 2003 and 2007 as new issuance was out-weighed by share buybacks, dividends and takeover activity boosted by the highly leveraged techniques of private equity.
This provided technical support to equity valuations, particularly in the small company universe.
However, fide-equitisation went into reverse in 2008 as the banks started their rights issues.
This new trend of re-equitisation continued in 2009, with small companies contributing to substantial equity issuance: almost a fifth of the HGSC XIC s constituents issued new equity that was equivalent to at least a tenth of their outstanding equity capital at the start of the year.
As already described, the willingness of shareholders to support these funding exercises made an important contribution to the ensuing rally in share prices.
The discounts of the placing price to the prevailing market were typically wide and, from the portfolios point of view, could provide good opportunities to establish a holding, as long as the new equity provided sufficient comfort against remaining debt covenants.
In all, the portfolio participated in 23 equity issues, using six of those as the opportunity to acquire an initial position in the underlying business.
9 Managers Report While equity issuance exploded, M&A activity dropped sharply, running at around one third of its average over the past ten years.
This reflected caution in the face of recession on the part of company boards and the difficulty in securing debt funding as banks sought to repair their balance sheets.
Reflecting your managers value investment philosophy, the portfolio has historically benefited disproportionately from M&A and indeed had holdings in three of the 14 companies in the HGSC XIC that were acquired in 2009.
A return to normal levels of activity in 2010 would be beneficial.
There are numerous indications that this might be the case, with corporate transactions already picking up in the US and with UK assets, by virtue of lower valuations and the weakness of sterling, looking vulnerable.
In terms of dividends, the portfolio out-performed the benchmark.
As noted in the interim report, the current recession has been considerably worse for dividends than was the previous downturn.
At work have been not only the understandable pressures of recession and troubled lenders, but also the frustrating influences of fashion and weak advice.
Large companies, whose dividends in aggregate escaped unscathed from the recession of the early 1990s, have seen a decline of roughly 20% in the present downturn, substantially reflecting the problems of the banking sector.
The experience for small companies is also worse than last time: the drop of 35-40% over the last 18 months compares with a fall of 20-25%, spread over a three year period, in the early 1990s.
ASCoT found some protection in its focus on being paid to wait for the upturn.
It nevertheless experienced a decline in income of approximately 20%.
With the benchmarks dividends having fallen further, the portfolios historical yield relative to that of the HGSC XIC moved up steadily to end the year at a 20% premium.
This is close to its highest level over ASCoTs history.
Your managers believe that over longer time periods, such a yield advantage will benefit the portfolios absolute and relative returns.
Importantly, it has not been secured by sacrificing quality.
Implied dividend cover rose sharply through the second half to its highest ever level, ending the year at 3.9x.
This compares with a nineteen year average cover of 2.4x.
The income profile is not dependent on very high yielding stocks whose prospects of dividend growth might be considered to be limited, with 83% of the portfolio invested in companies yielding less than 5%.
Indeed, 19% of the portfolio at the year end consisted of companies with no yield, around half of which may be considered structural nil yielders, i. e. companies whose business models do not support dividend payments.
The other half can be classified as cyclical nil yielders, i. e. businesses whose profits have suffered in recession and are currently unable to pay.
Moving forward, an important dynamic will be the return of these cyclical nil yielders to the dividend register as recovery continues.
Other things being equal, this ought to provide a boost to dividend growth across the portfolio, and indeed the small cap market, in the medium term.
However, whilst this is encouraging for the medium term, it is not unlikely that a further modest decline in dividend income in 2010 may occur.
Looking forward From a macro economic perspective, it is difficult to muster a lot of optimism at the current time about the worlds developed economies.
Policymakers have thus far done a good job in staving off the risk of the recession spiralling into depression.
However, the measures required to achieve this have essentially been an exercise in moving lumps of debt from the private to the public sector.
The burden of structurally high levels of debt therefore persists and this has to be worked down over time.
It is reasonable to expect this to place a limit on economic growth over the medium term.
This is particularly relevant to the UK, where the next government will have to embrace public spending cuts and where the savings rate among consumers is heading upwards.
With interest rates and government bond yields at their present low levels, financing high public borrowing is not too demanding.
Government bond yields have been held down for the time being by purchases by central banks and, as the year drew to a close, the gilt market weakened as fears built about the UKs fiscal position.
Moreover, scope for monetary policy error lingers.
Thus far, rhetoric from the central banks is hinting at a bias to keeping rates lower for longer in order to reduce the perceived risk of mistakes made in the 1930s depression.
This, however, has reignited concerns about resurgent inflationary pressure and focused attention on exit strategies from the current phase of loose monetary policy.
Peering into 2010, it is safe to state that the financial markets focus of concerns will continue to oscillate between inflation and deflation.
10 Managers Report But there are offsetting factors, principally the increasing contribution to global economic growth of emerging markets and the relative health of the corporate sector.
Recoveries from recession over the past couple of decades have typically been led by the US consumer, who has responded in Pavlovian fashion to interest rate reductions.
However, with the US consumer at last in retrenchment mode and the current account deficit narrowing, the present recovery has been substantially powered by China and other emerging markets.
And within China, the incremental growth has come not from the export sector, which is in any case highly dependent on the US consumer, but on internally generated demand.
It would no doubt be better if this demand originated from the private sector rather than from the state, but the key issue is the fact of an alternative and autonomous source of growth that eases the process of adjustment within developed economies.
Meanwhile, in the wake of recession and credit crunch, the corporate sector in both the UK and US is in surprisingly good shape.
Contributing to this have been the substantial equity issuance seen through 2009, reduced capital expenditure budgets, and the rapidity with which management teams reacted to the downturn with cost reductions.
The strain has been taken by labour, with unemployment rates rising to multi year highs in several economies.
While this dynamic curbs the enthusiasm of consumers to spend, it is consistent with a recovery that might be led initially by profits and then by capital expenditure.
With ample spare capacity, such a scenario might also offer some comfort regarding inflation.
This relative strength of the corporate sector is evident in the substantial opportunity base that is the HGSC XIC, where trading conditions for many businesses have stabilised and, boosted by tentative restocking, are starting to pick up.
This improvement is reflected in the strong returns from small companies in 2009 and, as the table below demonstrates, has precipitated a substantial re-rating: historical PEs moved from 6.4x to 11.2x over the course of the year.
31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 87 448 93 495 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 368m 619m 259m 442m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 8.1x 11.2x 6.0x 6.4x Net Dividend Yield Historic 3.2% 2.7% 5.3% 5.9% Dividend Cover Historic 3.9x 3.3x 3.1x 2.6x Despite this re-rating, small companies remain at the cheap end of their valuation range over ASCoTs history.
The average historical PE over the past 19 years has been 14x and, in the recovery phase of the recession in the early 1990s, it moved up to 18x.
While the structural issues besetting the UK economy may prevent a return to this level of valuation, there would nevertheless appear to be plenty of scope for further re-rating on the assumption that the recovery is sustained.
Valuations within ASCoTs portfolio are lower.
The historical PE moved up through 2009, from 6.0x to 8.1x, but not as sharply as that of the benchmark, reflecting the lower return and also a more resilient earnings performance from the portfolio.
On both an absolute and relative basis, the portfolio is offering what is approaching its best value over ASCoTs history.
Crucially, in your managers opinion, this has not been facilitated by a deterioration in quality.
The portfolio retains its bias to companies with strong balance sheets, with just under a third invested in businesses with net cash.
Such financial strength affords these companies flexibility to invest, which might reasonably prove a competitive advantage at a time when banks still appear reluctant to lend to indebted businesses.
Another indication of quality might be the relative resilience of the portfolios income performance, which has helped its yield move from a 10% discount to that of the HGSC XIC at the start of the year to a 20% premium, while retaining a higher dividend cover.
While not being complacent about the challenges facing the domestic and global economies, the availability of well financed and attractively valued businesses, such as those that make up the portfolio, 11
