DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2009 which have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. Business Review Principal activity Absolute Return Trust Limited the Company is a Guernsey registered closed-ended investment company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading in the Companys Redeemable Participating Preference Shares commenced on 23rd February 2005.
On 25th May 2006 the Company issued 38.0 million Sterling C Shares at a price of 100p per Share and on the same day trading in those shares commenced.
On 30th June 2006 the Sterling C Shares were converted into 34,371,000 new Sterling Redeemable Participating Preference Shares.
On 31st January 2008 the Company issued 110.8 million Sterling C Shares at a price of 100.0p per Share and 18.9 million Euro C Shares at a price of 100.0 per Share.
On 14th March 2008 the Sterling C and Euro C Shares were converted respectively into 82,758,201 and 18,977,000 new Redeemable Participating Preference Shares.
On 28th March 2008 the Company issued a further 16,082,779 new Sterling Redeemable Participating Preference Shares at a price of 134.0p per Share.
On 27th June 2008 the Company issued 1,897,700 Euro Redeemable Participating Preference Shares at a price of 102.0 per Share.
These Shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 2nd July 2008.
On 1st October 2008 the Company issued 28.1 million Sterling C Shares at a price of 100.0p per Share.
These Sterling C Shares were subsequently converted into 21,929,496 new Sterling Redeemable Participating Preference Shares on 28th October 2008.
These Shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 3rd November 2008.
Investment Objective and Policy The Companys investment objective is to achieve a target return of three month Sterling LIBOR plus five per cent.
over a rolling five year period, while keeping annualised volatility below 6.0 per cent.
The Companys investment policy is to invest in a diversied portfolio of hedge funds whilst hedging all foreign currency assets back into Sterling.
A foreign exchange and borrowing facility is available to the Company as described in Note 11 on page 32.
Results The results for the year are set out in the Income Statement.
The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year.
In the year to 31st March 2009, the Sterling Share Class Net Asset Value per Share declined by 10.3 per cent.
while the Euro Share Class Net Asset Value per Share declined by 10.2 per cent.
The Investment Advisors Report on pages 5 to 9 includes a review of developments during the year, as well as information on the investment activity in the Companys portfolio.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses two main financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
These KPIs are: Performance compared to LIBOR This is the most important KPI for the measurement of investment returns.
Annualised volatility This is the most important KPI for measuring the amount of risk being taken by the Manager.
Since inception, the Company has delivered a return of 4.4 per cent.
per annum, which is below the rolling five year target of Sterling LIBOR plus 5.0 per cent.
Volatility over this period has been 6.3 per cent.
per annum, which is marginally higher than the Companys guideline ceiling of 6.0 per cent.
The Board also monitors the performance of the Company against its peers.
11 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Discount Premium to Net Asset Value The Board monitors the level of the share price discount premium to Net Asset Value.
The Board has a number of discount control mechanisms at its disposal which are set out in Note 15 on page 34.
Shareholder Information The Company announces its unaudited Net Asset Value on a monthly basis: estimated Net Asset Values are also provided by the Manager weekly.
A monthly report on investment performance is published on the Companys website www.
In accordance with the Listing Rules the top ten holdings are announced to the London Stock Exchange each quarter.
Principal Risks With the assistance of the Administrator and the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix, which identies the key risks to the Company.
These fall into the following broad categories: Investment Risks: The Company is exposed to the risk that its portfolio fails to perform in line with the Companys objectives if it is inappropriately invested.
The Board reviews reports from the Manager at each quarterly Board meeting, paying particular attention to the diversication of the portfolio and to the performance and volatility of underlying investments.
The Board also reviews reports provided by the Manager at each quarterly Board meeting on the sources of return and the correlations between individual investments.
Operational Risks: The Company is exposed to the risks arising from any failure of systems and controls in the operations of the Manager or the Administrator.
The Board annually receives reports from the Manager and Administrator on their internal controls and reviews pricing reports covering the valuations of underlying investments at each quarterly Board meeting.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory Risks: The Company is exposed to risk if it fails to comply with the regulations of the UK Listing Authority or if it fails to maintain accurate accounting records.
The Administrator provides the Board with regular reports on changes in regulations and accounting requirements.
Financial Risks: The financial risks, including market, credit and liquidity risk faced by the Company are set out in Note 22 on pages 41 to 47.
These risks and the controls in place to mitigate them are reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
Manager and Investment Advisor The Manager is entitled to a management fee of 1.0 per cent.
per annum calculated monthly on the gross assets of the Company.
In addition, the Manager will also be entitled to a performance fee if the Net Asset Value per Share for each Share Class at the end of a performance period 31st March each year exceeds certain conditions as set out in Note 7 on page 31.
The Board has reviewed the performance and capabilities of the Manager and is satisfied that the continued appointment of Fauchier Partners Management Limited and Fauchier Partners LLP as Manager and Investment Advisor respectively is in the interest of shareholders.
Directors The Directors of the Company during the year and at the date of this Report are set out on page 10 and on the Management and Administration summary on page 49.
It is the Boards policy that directors offer themselves for re-election after no more than three years in ofce.
12 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Directors and Other Interests As at 31st March 2009, Directors of the Company held the following numbers of Redeemable Participating Preference Shares beneficially: Shares Shares Directors 31.3.
2008 Andrew Sykes 152,790 152,790 Nicholas Fry 160,675 160,675 Robert King 38,150 18,670 Nicholas Moss Nil Nil Robin Rumboll 25,000 25,000 significant Shareholdings Shareholders with holdings of more than 3.0 per cent.
of the Redeemable Participating Preference Shares of the Company at 14th May 2009 were as follows: Percentage Number of Issued of Shares Share Capital Quilter Nominees Limited 36,284,390 15.13 Chase Nominees Limited 34,976,847 14.59 Securities Services Nominees Limited 24,481,303 10.21 Rathbone Nominees Limited 20,492,827 8.55 Nortrust Nominees Limited 13,985,240 5.83 HSBC Global Custody Nominee UK Limited 12,176,589 5.08 Smith & Williamson Nominees Limited 10,026,544 4.18 Lynchwood Nominees Limited 10,007,039 4.17 Harewood Nominees Limited 9,871,318 4.12 Those interested directly or indirectly in 3.0 per cent.
or more of the issued share capital of the Company will not have different voting rights from other holders of Shares.
Going Concern The Directors have examined significant areas of possible financial risk including cash requirements arising from foreign exchange hedging activities and possible share redemptions or share repurchases.
The Directors noted that in the event that the Companys Shares trade at a discount of more than 5.0 per cent.
at each month end over the course of a full financial year, there is a provision for a resolution to be put to the members at the Annual General Meeting for a termination of the Company continuation vote.
It has not been the case that a discount of more than 5.0 per cent.
has persisted during the year to 31st March 2009 and as a consequence, no such continuation vote will occur.
In the event that a discount of greater than 5.0 per cent.
prevails during the year to 31st March 2010, a continuation vote may be raised at the following Annual General Meeting after 31st March 2010.
The Board also has the discretion to operate the Redemption Facility, offering shareholders the possibility of redeeming part of their shareholding at the Net Asset Value, if it appears appropriate to do so.
After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements and, after due consideration, consider that the Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
In addition to their fees for the audit of the Annual Financial Statements, Ernst & Young were paid 32,000 for non-audit work performed during the year in connection with the C Share issue.
These fees have been written off to the Share Premium Account in accordance with the accounting policy for share issue expenses.
13 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Corporate Governance Introduction As a closed-ended investment company registered in Guernsey, the Company is eligible for exemption from the requirements of the Combined Code the Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has however put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an investment company and which enables the Company to comply voluntarily with the main requirements of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance and a code of best practice.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout this accounting period except where indicated below.
The following statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
The Board The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Manager.
The Chairman of the Board is Andrew Sykes.
Biographies for all the Directors can be found on page 10.
In considering the independence of the Chairman, the Board has taken note of the provisions of the Code relating to independence and has determined that Mr Sykes is an Independent Director.
As the Chairman is an Independent Director, no appointment of a senior Independent Director has been made.
The Company has no employees and therefore there is no requirement for a chief executive.
The Articles of Association provide that unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of the Directors shall not be less than two and the aggregate remuneration of all Directors in any twelve month period, or pro rata for any lesser period shall not exceed 150,000 or such higher amount as may be approved by ordinary resolution.
In accordance with Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting onethird of the Directors shall retire from ofce via rotation.
On 12th September 2008 at the 3rd Annual General Meeting of the Company, Robin Rumboll retired as a Director of the Company and being eligible had offered himself for re-election and was re-elected as a Director of the Company by the Shareholders.
The Board holds quarterly Board meetings and the Audit Committee meets at least twice a year.
In addition, there were a number of ad hoc meetings of the Board to review specic items between the regular scheduled quarterly meetings.
At the Board meetings the Directors review the management of the Companys assets and all other significant matters so as to ensure that the Directors maintain overall control and supervision of the Companys affairs.
The Board is responsible for the appointment and monitoring of all service providers to the Company.
Between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Investment Advisor.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access to the Secretary and, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Attendance at the Board and Audit Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Number of Meetings Andrew Nicholas Robert Nicholas Robin held Sykes Fry King Moss Rumboll Board Meetings 665666 Audit Committee Meetings 333333 Ad-hoc Board Meetings 13 1 10 11 4 The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board consideration will be given as to whether an induction process is appropriate.
14 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Guernsey Law and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Guernsey Company Law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company and of the total return of the Company for that year and in accordance with the applicable laws.
In preparing those Financial Statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors recognise their responsibilities stated below.
Audit Committee An audit committee has been established consisting of all Directors with Nicholas Fry appointed as Chairman.
The terms of reference of the audit committee provide that the committee shall be responsible, amongst other things, for reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, considering the appointment and independence of external auditors, discussing with the external auditors the scope of the audit and reviewing the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
Directors Statement So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Directors Remuneration As all the Directors are non-executive, the Board has resolved that it is not appropriate to form a Remuneration Committee and remuneration is reviewed and discussed by the Board as a whole with independent advice.
Directors remuneration is considered on an annual basis.
Directors remuneration for the year ended 31st March 2009 was as follows: Directors: 21,000 per annum, the Audit Committee Chairman: 23,000 per annum and the Chairman: 29,000 per annum.
At a board meeting held on 10th March 2009, the board agreed that from 1st April 2009 each Director be paid a fee of 22,000 per annum, the Chairman be paid a fee of 32,000 per annum and the Audit Committee Chairman be paid a fee of 27,000 per annum.
These increases reect the increasing workload of the Board and are in line with market benchmarks.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Financial Report and Audited Financial Statements and is reviewed by the Board and accords with The Combined Code.
The Code requires Directors to conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
15 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Internal Controls continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
Relations with Shareholders The Investment Advisor maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Nicholas Moss Robert King Director Director 20th July 2009 20th July 2009 16
