INVESTMENT ADVISORS REPORT For the year ended 31st March 2009 Performance For the year to 31st March 2009 the Company produced a negative return in Sterling of 10.3 per cent.
net of fees negative 10.2 per cent.
Since the Company first invested in a portfolio of hedge funds on 1st March 2005, it has achieved an average annual compound Sterling return of 4.4 per cent.
Over the same period the Companys annualised volatility has been some 6.2 per cent.
and its beta, namely the extent to which its returns are driven by a particular market or index, to the FTSE All Share Index has been approximately 0.26 and to the Citigroup UK Gilt Index, -0.18, both of which are low.
The credit crisis has been the principal backdrop to the year, and the Companys performance was dominated by the months of September and October down 5.5 per cent.
respectively in Sterling at the height of the crisis, during which the global financial system had to be bailed out by taxpayers and Central Bank initiatives.
This period has resulted in the Company experiencing its first negative 12 month period since launch.
As at 31st March 2009 the Company had holdings in 28 funds across 10 different strategies, one less fund than at the same time in 2008.
Two funds were purchased and three sold, slightly below the typical level of turnover.
Over the year, the proportion of Absolute Value funds included in the Companys portfolio has reduced by approximately 5.0 per cent.
The chart below gives details of the composition of the Companys portfolio by investment strategy as at 31st March 2009.
For a description of individual hedge fund strategy, see pages 50 to 51.
Composition by Strategy Relative Value Strategies Absolute Value Strategies Multiple Strategy 10.0% Macro 13.6% Fixed income 4.1% Equity Long Bias 3.4% Volatility Trading 6.6% Equity Hedged High Event Driven 12.2% Volatility 18.6% Specialist Credit 7.5% Short Bias 4.3% Equity Hedged Low Volatility 19.7% Refers to holdings greater than 10 basis points of Assets under Management.
5 INVESTMENT ADVISORS REPORT continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 Market Review The year under review witnessed some of the most difficult market conditions experienced since the Second World War, with extreme levels of volatility in all asset classes and Central Bank intervention across the globe on an unprecedented scale.
Equities as measured by the MSCI World Index were down by some 37.0 per cent.
Spreads on high-yield bonds more than trebled to all-time highs of over 1900 basis points and the VIX Volatility index touched 90 from mid to low teens earlier in the year reecting the highest level of volatility on record.
Having reached record highs in the summer, commodities were down sharply with the price of Natural Gas ending the period over 60.0 per cent.
lower and Nymex Crude Oil down by more than 50 per cent.
Although very volatile, the price of Gold ended the period roughly level with the start at around $920.
There were extraordinary swings in currency markets too, with the dollar and yen rising sharply against the euro and, especially Sterling 38.0 per cent.
Sterling depreciation against the US dollar.
During the first three months of the period under review, markets, although very volatile, enabled underlying hedge fund managers to perform well: the Companys Net Asset Value rose by 4.9 per cent.
Over the following months conditions became increasingly difficult, culminating in September and October when almost every market and sector went into freefall.
The markets distress was led by Financials with the prices of quoted securities of many major banks and other financial institutions gyrating wildly following the failure of Lehman Brothers.
At this point, the viability of the financial system itself was brought into question.
A number of long-established institutions were unable to withstand the strain: text books on the Great Depression and the role of the lender of last resort were dusted down as liquidity evaporated and banks proved unwilling or unable to lend to one another.
To compound these problems, hedge fund managers had to contend both with severe doubt over the viability of market counterparties and with restrictions on their short-selling activities.
These months were two of the most volatile for equity markets in recent times, with many investors selling across the board in a ight to the safe haven of Government Bonds.
The widespread sell-off was punctuated with erce bear market rallies, for example, in September following the announcement of the US Governments plans to purchase mortgage securities from the banking system.
None of these rallies lasted longer than a few days.
There was no solace to be found in commodities which for much of the previous twelve months had been strong.
Fearing a world wide recession, commodity-related stocks were sold across the board and suffered significant diminution in value.
In the last quarter of the period, some rationality started to return to the markets as much of the forced fide-leveraging that had caused so much trouble in the previous months was completed.
The Bank of England and the Federal Reserve initiated stimulus programmes of Quantitative Easing via large buybacks of government securities, reversing the steep sell-off in government bonds in the January and February from their December highs.
Equity markets, having fallen steeply, rallied strongly in the final two weeks of the period.
Equity market volatility subsided somewhat but still remained at elevated levels, whilst credit spreads narrowed slightly from their all time wide levels to stand at around 1500 basis points at the end of March 2009.
6 INVESTMENT ADVISORS REPORT continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 Hedge Fund Strategies The chart below shows the contribution to the Companys performance by each hedge fund strategy: Contribution by Strategy Year ended 31st March 2009 Absolute Value Strategies Macro Equity Long Bias Equity Hedged High Volatility Equity Hedged Low Volatility Short Bias Specialist Credit Relative Value Strategies Event Driven Volatility Trading Fixed income Multiple Strategy -4.0% -3.0% -2.0% -1.0% 0.0% 1.0% 2.0% As can be seen, most strategies included in the portfolio struggled to make positive contributions to the Companys performance during the year to 31st March 2009 with the exceptions of Short Bias and Fixed Income strategies.
Our Fixed Income manager had an excellent year, benefiting from positions in the front end of the rates curve and in options designed to take advantage of the high volatility.
Given the backdrop of the equity markets, there were great opportunities for our Short Bias managers who managed to generate substantial gains despite the imposition of the temporary short selling ban on Financials and other stocks in September.
The year as a whole saw poor performance by our Macro managers who collectively lost more than any other group of managers.
September and October saw the largest of their falls as managers were overwhelmed by the extreme market volatility and violent swings in the technically-driven markets.
The bulk of losses came in equity-related trades as well as Emerging Market debt and commodities.
Despite some excellent opportunities in the Macro space during the year, several of our Macro funds have disappointed and we are in the process of making substantial changes within this strategy.
The sentiment-driven equity markets were particularly hazardous for our fundamental stock-picking Equity Hedged Managers.
September and October were particularly difficult for the strategy as Financials experienced extreme volatility following the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the temporary short selling ban.
However prompt fide-leveraging by most managers, reducing both net and gross exposures, meant that they were able to avoid the worst of the equity market fallout.
The year witnessed some of the worst panic and forced-selling of credit securities in memory and despite relatively low exposure levels our Specialist Credit managers struggled to preserve capital.
Gains tended to come from short positions, but were more than offset by losses from long positions, especially from managers with exposure to leveraged loans or commodity-related names.
The Volatility Trading strategy struggled as gains generated by our short-term option trading manager were overwhelmed by the losses from our Convertible Bond Arbitrage manager as the convertible bond market collapsed, hit hard by the short-selling ban which restricted investors ability to hedge the equity risk and the increased concerns about the security of convertible instruments in the wake of the collapse of certain financial institutions.
7 INVESTMENT ADVISORS REPORT continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 Currency Hedging Over the year both the Euro and Sterling weakened signicantly and rapidly against the US Dollar.
The Company operates a passive currency hedging programme to insulate investors from changes in the foreign exchange rate.
Appreciation of the US Dollar generates an increase in the value of the Companys assets which is offset by a commensurate loss in the value of the forward contract.
This loss is met in the short-term through the Companys foreign exchange and borrowing facility and ultimately by raising cash by re-balancing the hedge fund assets.
At the end of November the Company negotiated a temporary increase in its foreign exchange and borrowing facility to 35.0 per cent.
of Net Asset Value in order to have the exibility to maintain the currency hedge in the face of further US Dollar strengthening.
At the same time the Company bought a currency option in order to ensure on-going currency protection in the event of Dollar appreciation above the 35.0 per cent.
credit limit during the period over the calendar year end when cash was being raised from hedge fund assets.
Although the option cost had an impact of 1.4 per cent.
on the Companys performance amortised over its three month life the option was triggered in January with the result that the Company remained fully hedged at all times throughout this turbulent period.
Portfolio Liquidity 1 The table below shows the expected liquidity prole of the portfolio.
Expected time to cash ow Proportion Within 3 months 8.3% 3 to 6 months 70.1% 6 to 12 months 3.4% Greater than 12 months 18.2% Total 100.0% Since the beginning of the calendar year, conditions for the underlying hedge funds impacted by the restricted liquidity in markets have generally improved, particularly for those managers exposed to certain credit and convertible bond markets.
Outlook After several years of caution with respect to the outlook for Specialist Credit, we now plan to increase our allocation to this strategy.
The period of wholesale fide-leveraging by investment banks and other participants in the markets who employed gearing has meant that there are some extremely attractive opportunities available.
It is still dangerous to be bullish on corporate debt generically but our managers believe that investments in specic instruments will be profitable even in the event of a severe economic recession resulting in corporate default and represent highly attractive risk reward propositions.
For the past year share prices have been driven by sentiment not fundamentals, making life very difficult for Equity Hedged managers.
Intra-stock correlation has been close to all-time highs but is now beginning to subside as liquidity improves and investors re-focus on corporate cash ows, earnings and valuations.
This development should present excellent conditions for fundamental stock pickers.
1 The table reects the anticipated cash ow assuming notice was given to all underlying funds as at 31st March 2009.
It includes a provision for the approximate 10.0 per cent.
audit hold back which the hedge funds may apply to full redemptions and any other known restrictions the managers of the underlying funds may place on redemptions.
Where there is currently no rm indication from the underlying manager on the expected timing of the receipt of redemption proceeds, the relevant amount is included in the greater than 12 months category.
The cash ow projections are therefore conservative, but remain estimates.
Restrictions are in the course of being lifted and the information contained in the table above may not be an indication of the Companys future liquidity.
8 INVESTMENT ADVISORS REPORT continued For the year ended 31st March 2009 Outlook continued We are less optimistic than before about the outlook for Macro hedge funds.
The Central Bank policy cycle is mature, with less scope for further cuts in interest rates in 2009.
Although major asset classes are likely to remain volatile, we do not expect to see pronounced directional trends of the magnitude and velocity of last year.
Most importantly, we believe that the systemic issues facing the hedge fund industry have signicantly abated and that excellent returns can be achieved in each of our favoured areas without the need for substantial balance-sheet leverage.
