INVESTMENT POLICY As at 31st March 2009 The Companys investment policy is to invest in a diversied portfolio of hedge funds.
There are no limits to the size of the hedge funds in which the Company may invest and these funds may be closed or open ended.
Diversication The Manager seeks to obtain diversication by investing in a number of different hedge funds across various strategies and styles.
Although the exact number of funds used may vary over time, the Directors intend that the Companys portfolio will comprise no less than 20 different hedge funds representing a variety of different strategies.
In practice, it is expected that the portfolio will include some 30 different funds based in North America, Europe and in Asia.
The Company may, from time to time, hold cash or cash equivalents at the Managers discretion.
Asset Allocation The Manager, upon the advice of the Investment Advisor, invests the Companys assets in the following principal hedge fund strategy groups: Absolute Value Strategies, which include funds investing in a combination of long and short positions.
This group includes but is not limited to : Macro funds: Equity Long Bias funds: Equity Hedged Low Volatility Funds: Equity Hedged High Volatility funds: Short Bias funds: and Specialist Credit funds: Relative Value Strategies, which seek to exploit anomalies in the pricing of two or more related securities.
This group includes but is not limited to : Event Driven funds: Volatility Trading and Fixed Income funds: and Multiple Strategy funds, which invest in situations combining elements of both Absolute Value and Relative Value approaches.
The Manager, upon the advice of the Investment Advisor, does not adopt a prescriptive approach to strategy allocation and, while the Directors would normally expect the Companys portfolio to be diversied across some 10 strategies, there are no formal target weightings to strategies, although no single strategy would represent more than 50.0 per cent.
of the Companys gross assets.
See the Investment Advisors report for the current strategy allocation.
The Manager does not attempt to time or predict the direction of markets.
Its objective is to allocate to strategies according to its perception of the potential which exists to generate returns in any particular strategy over a given period of time.
For example, if there is little merger and acquisition activity, it will be very difficult for hedge fund managers active in this area to generate returns and the emphasis of the portfolio would be altered accordingly.
As an alternative to direct investment in hedge funds, or where hedge funds are closed to new investment, the Manager, on the advice of the Investment Advisor, may invest indirectly through managed accounts established with portfolio managers with individual investment discretion.
Such investments are made in the shares of separately established special purpose companies with limited liability.
As the managed accounts are structured as separate limited liability companies, the liability of the Company is, in each case, limited to the value of its shareholding in that special purpose company.
of the Companys gross assets may, in aggregate, be invested in any single managed account or accounts or with any single portfolio manager or fund.
17 INVESTMENT POLICY continued As at 31st March 2009 Currency Hedging The Company invests in underlying hedge fund assets which are predominantly denominated in US Dollars.
The Company therefore has an exposure to changes in the exchange rate between Sterling, Euro and the US Dollar which, unhedged, has the potential to have a significant effect on returns.
The Directors believe that it is in the best interests of Shareholders that the Company engages on a consistent basis in currency hedging to reduce the risk, as far as possible, of currency uctuations and the volatility of returns which may result from such currency exposure.
This involves hedging those non-Sterling assets relating to the Sterling Share Class into Sterling and non-Euro assets relating to the Euro Share Class into Euro through the use of rolling forward foreign exchange contracts or currency options.
Currency hedging transactions are only undertaken in order to mitigate exchange rate exposure and not for speculative purposes.
Gearing The Company has the ability to borrow up to 20.0 per cent.
of its adjusted total of capital and reserves for shortterm or temporary purposes as is necessary for the settlement of transactions, to facilitate redemption where applicable or to meet ongoing expenses.
The Directors have put in place a foreign exchange and borrowing facility for this purpose.
The Company does not have any structural gearing.
The Company is indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee funds are themselves geared.
Cash if any will be held in G8 currency-denominated accounts.
General In accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority, any material change in the investment policy of the Company may only be made with the approval of Shareholders.
