BOARD MEMBERS Directors of the Company The Directors of the Company, all of whom are non-executive, are listed below.
Andrew Sykes Chairman, age 51, was a director of Schroders plc from 1998 to 2004, having joined Schroders in 1978.
He was responsible for Schroders private banking and alternative investments businesses, including hedge funds, property, private equity and structured products.
Mr Sykes is Chairman of Invista Foundation Property Trust Limited and a non-executive director of Record plc, Smith & Williamson Holdings Limited, Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust and JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Nicholas Fry, age 62, was a director of S. G. Warburg & Co. from 1983 to 1995 and of SBC Warburg now part of UBS AG from 1995 to 1996, having joined S. G. Warburg & Co. in 1976.
Mr Fry was responsible for a broad range of public takeover, merger and acquisition, capital markets and general financial advisory work, mainly for large listed companies in the UK and overseas.
He was a partner of KPMG from 1998 to 2002 and Vice Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance until March 2005.
He is a non-executive director of Brixton plc, Blackrock Smaller Companies Trust plc and Pochins PLC.
Robert King, age 46, is a director of Cannon Asset Management Limited, which he joined in February 2007.
Prior to this he was a director of Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited where he worked from 1990 until February 2007, specialising in the administration of offshore open and closed-ended investment funds.
He has been in the offshore fund administration industry since 1986.
He holds a number of board appointments in other investment companies.
Nicholas Moss, age 49, is a founding member of the Virtus Group, a Guernsey based duciary, corporate services and investment consulting business.
Prior to establishing Virtus, Nicholas was a managing director within the Rothschild Trust Group in Guernsey, where he spent 16 years structuring and administering complex onshore and offshore trusts for corporates and ultra high net worth families.
He has wide experience in the selection of investment managers for his clients and the subsequent evaluation and monitoring of these portfolios.
He holds a number of non-executive Board appointments including the London listed Rutley European Property Limited, and BH Global Limited.
Nicholas is a Chartered Accountant and a Guernsey resident.
Robin Rumboll, age 69, was a partner in Coopers & Lybrand in Jersey from 1965 to 1985 specialising in audit and compliance functions within the banking and investment management sector.
In addition, he served as the international audit liaison partner and was responsible for introducing global audit standards.
From 1981 to 1996 he was an elected member of the States of Jersey and held numerous senior positions within the legislature, including the Presidency of the Education Committee and the President of Jersey Telecoms.
He currently holds a number of non-executive directorships within the financial services sector.
All the Directors are independent of the Manager.
