During 2009, over 160 local organisations throughout the Groups locations were supported The main source of the Groups carbon emissions is The Group assesses the potential costs associated the consumption of electricity and gas in its offi ces.
with a number of disaster scenarios such as a major There are large variations in the consumption between storm in the South East, major fl ood on the East offi ces and the Facilities manager and team will be Coast, and a complete fl ooding of the Thames in increasing the level of monitoring to ensure each site is the London area.
Reinsurance cover is purchased using resources as effi ciently as possible.
to provide signifi cant protection in the event of catastrophes of this nature.
Water usage increased to 6.3 cubic metres per employee.
This was a result of a major leak in the Challenges for 2010 Cardiff offi ces during 2009 that emptied both main The Group faces a continual challenge to recruit, header tanks each containing 10,000 gallons of water.
train, motivate and retain employees across its whole business.
Whilst it appears that morale across the Employees are encouraged to recycle where possible Group is excellent, there are small areas where this is and each fl oor has an environmental representative not the case and it will be a challenge to identify and tasked with increasing the levels of recycling and increase the morale within these areas to match how awareness.
During 2009 the UK offi ces introduced the employees feel about the Company as a whole.
Bike to Work scheme, which enables employees to purchase bicycles tax effi ciently to increase cycling to Measuring and managing our carbon footprint is no work and decrease use of motor vehicles.
easy task and there are challenges on a number of levels.
We strive to improve our collection of data We also introduced the liftshare scheme during 2009 across the business so that our carbon emissions can in conjunction with liftshare.
liftshare is the largest carbe reported with increased accuracy across all of our share network in the UK and provides a free service to operations.
the local business community by providing a car-share scheme helping to reduce parking issues, saving employees money and reducing local pollution and congestion.
As well as providing this facility, the Group operates an interest-free loan scheme for advance payment of public transport costs.
The facilities department is in discussion with the Carbon Trust with the aim of reducing energy consumption.
A number of schemes relating to lighting and computer use are being discussed.
Environmental Risks The Group has reviewed the risks facing its business operations as a result of climate change.
The volume of motor insurance claims for any given portfolio of business is to a large degree dependent upon weather conditions.
The risk associated with climate change is the potential change to claims frequency through the impact of more extreme weather patterns.
Admiral Group plc 31 Annual Report 2009
