Business review continued Highlights In the UK, Admiral tracks Treating Customers Fairly with 04 Chairmans statement over 150 individual measures.
06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 10 Q&A on Admirals UK Car Insurance 12 Group review 13 UK Car Insurance 17 Price comparison 19 Non-UK Car Insurance 24 Principal risks and uncertainties 26 Corporate responsibility 32 Governance Share ownership is a key feature of the remuneration growth over 2007 to 2009 resulted in the 2007 51 Financial statements of employees.
All employees, regardless of location, scheme achieving a 98% vesting percentage.
are eligible to receive shares in the Groups Approved Free Share Plan.
Awards under this plan are made The Remuneration Committee report provides twice a year, following the interim and fi final results details of the performance measures for vesting announcements.
The level of awards is linked to of the DFSS.
the fi financial performance over the six-month period compared to the same period 12 months ago.
The Group is also committed to providing a Overseas employees receive equivalent awards consistently safe and effective working environment within the Groups Discretionary Free Share Scheme.
for all employees and contractors, customers and members of the public.
In doing so it will, The awards to date are shown in the table below.
as a minimum, comply with local health and An employee who was working at Admiral before safety legislation, but will exceed those requirements 1January 2005 would have received, up to the end should it be necessary to do so in order to deliver of 2009, 1,820 shares.
If none of the shares had its objectives.
been sold, these shares would be worth 21,640 on 31 December 2009 based on the closing share price Customers of 11.89.
851 of the 1,820 shares have reached Taking care of our customers is key to the current maturity and are available to sell.
and future success of the Group.
As at 31 December 2009 the Group had 2.08 million customers, up 18% The Board fi rmly believes that share ownership from 1.75 million the year before.
motivates employees, decreases attrition and improves the Groups recruitment prospects in the There are many initiatives in place to ensure regions where its offi ces are located.
Indeed, 79% of that customers are treated fairly, effi ciently and employees say they are more likely to stay employed with respect: with Admiral because of the share schemes.
Measures programme In addition to the Approved Free Share Scheme, Monitoring programme the Group operates the Discretionary Free Share Comment form analysis Scheme or DFSS.
Unlike many plans of this type the Treating customers fairly reporting awards are spread throughout the organisation from Complaints analysis senior managers to star performers.
Star performers are employees who have excelled in their role during the year and who would not normally receive DFSS shares.
As at 31 December 2009, 1,900 individuals held awards in the scheme.
Our strong earnings Fig 4 Employees still Annualised Award No.
of employees at Admiral on Leaver no.
Every department has a unique set of quality A detailed report is produced each month together measures to gauge performance.
The measures with a summary, providing details of measures that are updated each year to challenge departments have been graded red.
The report is discussed at to make continual improvements.
The programme the Risk Management Committee see Corporate is reported every month in the internal Company Governance section of this report for details on the magazine and awards are presented each year for RMC and process or behavioural changes agreed the best departments.
The annual measures bonus where appropriate.
provides a fi financial incentive for employees to drive incremental change throughout the business and During 2009 changes were made to a number of was paid out again in full for the 2009 year.
procedures as a result of the monitoring contained within the report.
For example, where complaints As well as this programme, quality representatives have been escalated to the Financial Ombudsman throughout Admiral monitor the service the Company Service FOS the percentage where FOS found provides through the thousands of comment forms in favour of the Company dropped to 67% during it receives back from customers every month.
As a result the Quality department have listening to customer comments, we can improve been looking at the internal procedures that cause the quality of service we provide.
complaints to be escalated to FOS and are liaising directly with the FOS.
On a monthly basis TCF The Group works within the regulatory framework of measure scores have resulted in script changes and the Financial Services Authority FSA in the UK.
of the FSAs statutory objectives is to help customers get a fair deal.
The Compliance department in the The TCF management information is now embedded UK has completed a Treating Customers Fairly in the culture of the Company.
If either a red or TCF Management Information pack, pulling amber grade occurs the department manager together specifi c measures that demonstrate we investigates the issues and provides information on are consistently treating our customers fairly.
This the reason for the score along with a plan to improve will be rolled out to our overseas motor insurance the results.
The table below contains some of the key measures from the TCF report: SeeFig5.
Fig 5 TCF Measure 2008 2009 Targets Complaints per 1,000 vehicles 1.14 1.06 1.04 % FOS complaints found in favour of Admiral 78% 67% 75% Customer service call answer rate 95% 93% 90% Claims call answer rate 92% 93% 90% Customer Comment form score 9.37 9.39 9 Claims Service Customer Comment forms 8.80 8.75 8.5 % Customer who would renew following a claim 93% 93% 85% Call answer rate for complaint lines 91% 93% 90% Admiral Group plc 29 Annual Report 2009
