Underwriting mix 15 % How has Admiral managed to maintain pay more to compensate for higher risk customers, its superior loss ratio whilst increasing we price to take advantage of these cross subsidies.
Admirals share of UK price market share?
The reason we have been able to do this better When Admiral launched in 1993 the focus was than others is down to many factors, however Id on younger, city drivers, an under-exploited highlight two key contributors, fi rstly our culture: subsection of the market.
Although Admiral still has were focused on car insurance and car insurance a disproportionate share of these types of drivers, alone and were not afraid to do things differently, for several years we have written business for the and secondly being data driven: were hungry for whole market, helping us to grow.
Our strong pricing data, ways to analyse data, and the results of our capability enables us to identify cross subsidies analysis drives our decisions.
across the market, i. e. where lower risk customers Expenses Can Admiral hold on to its expense management, and without many of the complexities ratio advantage?
you may fi nd in a large fi financial services company the typical model of our competitors.
Further, We have an expense ratio of 17% versus the were based in South Wales, which as well as being markets 30%.
This is really 14% versus 27% if you a beautiful place to be based, with world class exclude the MIB levies of around 3% which all car employees, is also much less expensive than many insurers pay.
Our success is simple, low cost, light other parts of the UK.
Premiums How do you think Admirals 12% increases The increase in price transparency due to price in premiums in 2009 compared with the UK comparison sites continues to make it more diffi cult market?
Do you expect increases to continue?
for insurers to get announced premium increases How will premium rate increases translate to to translate into increases in average premiums improvements in loss ratio performance?
written, the price comparison drag effect.
This may 17 % result in premium increases continuing for longer Admirals UK expense ratio We think our price increases were broadly consistent than in previous cycles.
We agree with predictions v 30% for the market with increases in the market as a whole.
Isay this that there will be further increases in 2010.
The because the percentage of times our brands came market as a whole is still losing money and reserve top on price comparison websites at the start of releases and investment income have both shrunk 2009 and at the end of 2009 was about the same, dramatically.
More price rises are needed.
which suggests our relative price competitiveness stayed about the same.
Claims What have been the key drivers of claims this is a long-term trend rather than a sudden change.
This pressure on claims is moderated by overall claims frequency in 2009 remaining low, with the Whilst its diffi cult to talk about the market as a exception of a blip of higher frequency in December whole, Im aware that some of our competitors have 2009 and January 2010 due to the snow and bad reported a sudden increase in bodily injury claims weather.
It takes time to see claims severity trends, frequency in the second half of 2009.
Weve seen a but our current expectation for 2009 claims infl ation continued increase in the proportion of claims with a is that it will be similar to 2008, relatively modest bodily injury element, but our experience suggests compared to earlier years, but well above RPI.
Ancillary income Do you think ancillary income per vehicle of well.
It will also mean that there is always the threat around 70 is sustainable?
of certain market or regulatory changes that could impact on some sources, but that other sources will Weve been successful at maintaining our ancillary be unaffected.
The movement to price comparison income per vehicle since we fl oated in 2004 and we has meant it has been more diffi cult to maintain expect this to continue.
One reason for this is that penetration rates, but on the other hand the trend the ancillary revenue is generated from a range of for increasing car insurance premiums has made products and services rather than a single product.
it easier to defend or improve margins on ancillary Having a range of sources means that, of course, products.
some things will be going well whilst others less Admiral Group plc 11 Annual Report 2009
