Governance Highlights 04 Chairmans statement The Admiral Group Board 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board 34 Directors report 37 Corporate governance 44 Remuneration report 49 Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc 51 Financial statements Alastair Lyons, CBE Henry Engelhardt, CBE Chairman Chief Executive Offi cer Kevin Chidwick David Stevens Finance Director Chief Operating Offi cer Lucy Kellaway Manfred Aldag Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Margaret Johnson Martin Jackson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Keith James, OBE John Sussens Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Admiral Group plc 32 Annual Report 2009 Key: Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Alastair Lyons, CBE 56 Chairman Martin Jackson 61 Non-Executive Director Alastair was appointed Chairman of the Company in Martin was appointed Non-Executive Director and July 2000.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Legal Chairman of the Audit Committee in August 2004.
He Marketing Services, In Retirement Services, and Cardsave, was the Group Finance Director of Friends Provident plc and Deputy Chairman of Bovis Homes.
He has previously between 2001 and 2003 and Friends Provident Life Offi ce been Chief Executive of the National Provident Institution between 1999 and 2001.
Prior to that he was the Group and of the National & Provincial Building Society, Managing Finance Director at London & Manchester Group plc from Director of the Insurance Division of Abbey National plc, 1992 to 1998, up to the date of its acquisition by Friends and Director of Corporate Projects at National Westminster Provident Life Offi ce.
Martin is also a Non-Executive Director Bank plc.
Alastair was also a Non-Executive Director of of IG Holdings plc, Homeserve Membership Limited and the Department for Transport and of the Department for Rothesay Life Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Work and Pensions.
A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chartered Accountants.
Accountants, he was awarded the CBE in the 2001 Birthday Honours for services to social security.
Keith James, OBE 65 Non-Executive Director Keith was appointed a Non-Executive Director Henry Engelhardt, CBE 52 Chief Executive Offi cer inDecember2002.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Henry is a founder Director of Admiral and was recruited Committee and is also the independent Chairman of by the Brockbank Group in 1991 to set up the Admiral Admiral Insurance Company Limited and Inspop.
He was part of the management team that led Limited.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Julian the MBO in 1999.
Prior to joining Admiral, he was Marketing Hodge Bank Limited and Hodge Life Assurance Company and Sales Manager for Churchill Insurance.
He has Limited and is Non-Executive Chairman of International substantial experience in direct response fi financial services Greetings plc.
He is a solicitor and was the Chairman of in the United Kingdom, United States and France.
He has Eversheds LLP from June 1995 toApril2004.
He was a an MBA from Insead.
Henry was awarded an honorary Non-Executive Director of Bank of Wales plc between 1988 CBE inApril2008 for services to business in Wales.
and 2001 and AXA Insurance Company Limited between 1992 and 2000.
Keith was awarded an OBE in 2005 for services to business and the community in Wales.
Kevin Chidwick 46 Finance Director Kevin is responsible for fi finance and investments as well as Admirals subsidiaries Confused.
com and Elephant in the Margaret Johnson 51 Non-Executive Director USA.
He joined Admiral in 2005, becoming Finance Director Margaret was appointed Non-Executive Director of the inSeptember2006.
Prior to Admiral, Kevin has been in Company inSeptember2006.
She is currently Group UK fi financial services for over 25 years.
He has held a CEO of the international advertising agency Leagas number of senior roles in other insurance organisations Delaney and has been with that Company for the including Finance Director positions at Engage Mutual past 13years.
Margaret joined the Groups Audit and Assurance and Cigna UK.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Remuneration Committees on appointment to the Board.
Institute of Certifi ed Accountants and has an MBA from London Business School.
Lucy Kellaway 50 Non-Executive Director Lucy joined the board as a Non-Executive Director David Stevens 48 Chief Operating Offi cer inSeptember2006.
She is the management columnist David is a founder Director of Admiral.
Initially the Marketing on the Financial Times and author of various books.
In Director, he was appointed Director responsible for pricing 20 years on the FT she has been oil correspondent, a Lex in 1996 and claims and pricing in 1999.
He was appointed columnist and Brussels correspondent.
Lucy also joined as Chief Operating Offi cer in 2004.
He joined Admiral the Nominations Committee on appointment to the Board.
in 1991 from McKinsey & Co. where he worked in the Financial Interest Group, London offi ce.
Prior to working for John Sussens 64 Non-Executive Director McKinsey & Co, he worked for Cadbury Schweppes in the John was appointed the Senior Independent NonUnited Kingdom and the United States.
David has an MBA Executive Director in August 2004, and is Chairman of from Insead.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Cookson plc and Anglo & Overseas Trust Manfred Aldag 59 Non-Executive Director Plc.
He was the Group Managing Director of Misys plc Manfred was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the between 1998 andMay2004 having been on the Board Company in 2003 as a representative of Munich Re.
Prior to joining Misys, he was graduated from University of Essen and has a degree in Manufacturing Director at JC Bamford Excavators Limited.
He was a Non-Executive Director at Chubb plc between He has worked for Munich Re since September 1981 and 2001 and 2003. is currently the Senior Executive Manager responsible for United Kingdom Ireland.
Admiral Group plc 33 Annual Report 2009
