Governance Highlights 04 Chairmans statement Directors report 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board 34 Directors report 37 Corporate governance 44 Remuneration report 49 Independent auditors report to the members of Admiral Group plc 51 Financial statements The Directors present their Annual Report and the Directors and their interests audited fi financial statements for the year ended The present Directors of the Company are shown 31December2009.
on pages 32 and 33 of this report, whilst Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set Business review out in the Remuneration report.
The Company is the holding Company for the Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups principal Charitable and political donations activity continues to be the selling and administration During the year the Group donated 147,000 2008: of private motor insurance and related products.
106,000 to various local and national charities.
The Group has never made political donations.
Refer to The information that fulfi ls the requirements of the the Business review for further detail.
Business review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, and which should be treated Employee policies as forming part of this report by reference is included Detailed information on the Groups employment in the following sections of the Annual Report: practices is set out in the Business review.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance Chairmans statement for all staff and Directors.
Chief Executives statement Business review Creditor payment policy It is the policy of the Group to pay all purchase Group results and dividends invoices by their due date, and appropriate quality The profi t for the year, after tax but before dividends, measures are in place to monitor and encourage amounted to 156.9 million 2008: 144.9 million.
At the end of the year outstanding invoices represented 15 days purchases 2008: 20.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 142.4 million during 2009 2008: 128.5 million Additional information for shareholders refer to note 13 for further details.
Where not provided previously in this Directors report, the following provides the additional The Directors have declared a second interim information required for shareholders as a result of dividend of 79.4 million 29.8 pence per share, the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into payable on 1April2010.
Share capital At 31December2009, the Companys issued share Refer to the Business review for the disclosure capital comprised a single class of shares referred of substantial shareholdings in accordance with to as ordinary shares.
Details of the share capital Chapter 5 of the Transparency and Disclosure rules.
and shares issued during the year can be found in note24.
Financial Instruments The objectives and policies for managing risks in On a show of hands at a general meeting of the relation to fi financial instruments held by the Group Company every holder of shares present in person are set out in note 17 to the fi financial statements.
and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the general meeting specifi es deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy notice or present in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Admiral Group plc 34 Annual Report 2009 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Articles of Association shares in the Company other than: The Articles may only be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, Power of the Directors insider trading laws The Directors are responsible for managing the pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial business of the Company and may exercise all Services Authority whereby certain employees powers of the Company subject to the provisions of of the Company require the approval of the relevant statutes, to any directions given by special Company to deal in the Companys securities resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles for example, contain The Company has not purchased any of its own specifi c provisions and restrictions concerning the shares during the period.
Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of new shares are also included in There are no agreements between the Company the Articles and such authorities are renewed by and its Directors or employees providing for shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
compensation for loss of offi ce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy Annual General Meeting or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
It is proposed that the next AGM be held at the Cardiff City Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff CF10 3ND on There are a number of agreements that alter or Wednesday 28April2010 at 3.00pm, notice of which terminate upon a change of control of the Company will be sent to shareholders with the Annual Report.
following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts.
None is considered to be signifi cant in Directors responsibilities terms of their impact on the business of the Group The Directors are responsible for preparing the as a whole except for the long-term co-insurance Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company agreement in place with Great Lakes Resinsurance fi financial statements, in accordance with applicable UK Plc.
Details relating to this agreement are law and regulations.
contained in the Business review.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Power to issue shares Group and Parent Company fi financial statements At the last Annual General Meeting, held on for each fi financial year.
Under that law they 28April2009, authority was given to the Directors to are required to prepare the Group fi financial allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up statements in accordance with International Financial to a maximum of an amount equivalent to one third Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU of the shares in issue.
This authority expires on the and applicable law and have elected to prepare the date of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Parent Company fi financial statements in accordance 28April2010 and the Directors will seek to renew with UK Accounting Standards and applicable this authority for the following year.
law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting The Group fi financial statements are required by granted authority to the Directors to allot equity law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present securities in the Company for cash, without regard fairly the fi financial position and performance of the to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of the to such fi financial statements that references in the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28April2010 relevant part of that Act to fi financial statements giving and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for a true and fair view are references to their achieving the following year.
Appointments of Directors The Parent Company fi financial statements are The Companys Articles of Association the Articles required by law to give a true and fair view of the give the Directors power to appoint and replace state of affairs of the Parent Company.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the fi first Annual General Meeting following appointment and all Directors who held offi ce at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings, to submit themselves for re-election.
Admiral Group plc 35 Annual Report 2009 Governance In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Responsibility statement Highlights fi financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors confi rm that to the best of 04 Chairmans statement their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply 06 Chief Executives statement them consistently The fi financial statements, prepared in accordance make judgements and estimates that are with the applicable set of accounting standards, 10 Business review reasonable and prudent give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and for the Group fi financial statements, state whether fi financial position and profi t or loss of the Company 32 Governance 32 The Admiral Group Board they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and the undertakings included in the consolidation 34 Directors report as adopted by the EU taken as a whole 37 Corporate governance for the Parent Company fi financial statements, state The Directors report includes a fair view of the 44 Remuneration report whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have development and performance of the business and 49 Independent auditors been followed, subject to any material departures the position of the Company and the undertakings report to the members disclosed and explained in the Parent Company included in the consolidation taken as a whole, of Admiral Group plc fi financial statements together with a description of the principal risks 51 Financial statements prepare the fi financial statements on the going and uncertainties that they face concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will Disclosure of information to auditors continue in business The Directors who held offi ce at the date of approval of this Directors report confi rm that, so far as they The Directors are responsible for keeping proper are each aware, there is no relevant audit information accounting records that disclose with reasonable of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the each Director has taken all the steps that he ought Parent Company and enable them to ensure that to have taken as a Director to make himself aware its fi financial statements comply with the Companies of any relevant audit information and to establish that Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent Auditor and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has indicated willingness to continue in offi ce and Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the are also responsible for preparing a Directors Directors to fi x its remuneration will be proposed report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate at the Annual General Meeting.
governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
By order of the Board, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from Mark Waters legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary 25February2010 Admiral Group plc 36 Annual Report 2009
