com employs over 150 people in Cardiff.
What we do UK Europe Confused.
com is an insurance and fi financial Rastreator.
com, our Spanish insurance services comparison website comparison website, launched in March 2009 Operating in the UK, the site allows consumers Rastreator allows customers to compare car to compare a range of general insurance and and motorcycle insurance prices fi financial services products across price and policy benefi ts Confuseds income is primarily generated via commissions paid by the product provider on the sale of an insurance policy or fi financial product Confused is the UKs leading car insurance comparison website measured by sales generated Price Comparison strategy UK Europe Confuseds strategy is to become the The Groups aim is to take what it knows and comparison website of choice in the UK for does well in the UK and expand this overseas.
fi financial products, and to maximise the value to To date we have targeted three markets.
the business of each customer relationship Rastreator.
com successfully launched in Spain in March 2009 The Groups French comparison website, LeLynx.
fr, launched in Paris in January 2010 Most recently, Chiarezza.
it, based in Milan, Italy, started operating in February 2010 Price Comparison Financial Performance Success in delivering against the strategy is Non-GAAP format income statement measured against a large number of key performance indicators which are common to the m 2007 2008 2009 UK and international businesses.
These include Revenue: quote volumes, conversion rates, sales, income Motor 58.8 52.9 62.2 per sale, revenue per customer and cost per sale.
com operating profi t 36.7 25.6 25.7 Admiral Group plc 17 Annual Report 2009 Business review continued Highlights 04 Chairmans statement 06 Chief Executives statement 10 Business review 10 Q&A on Admirals UK Car Insurance 12 Group review 13 UK Car Insurance 17 Price Comparison 19 Non-UK Car Insurance 22 Other Group Items 24 Principal risks and uncertainties 26 Corporate responsibility 32 Governance Following the successful roll-out of Confuseds Rastreator.
com new website early in the year accompanied by the Having only started business in March 2009, the 51 Financial statements Testimonials TV campaign, the main story of 2009 post-launch results for Rastreator in 2009 are not was yet another year of fi erce competition among the signifi cant in the Group context.
four key players in UK price comparison.
The focus for Rastreator in 2010 is to work to Despite having to spend aggressively on media to become top of mind in insurance price comparison defend its market position, Confused delivered a in Spain and also an important strategic partner for profi t in line with 2008.
Whilst Confused maintained insurers based on sales volumes generated.
its share of car insurance price comparison at around one third the market leading position, experience in Alongside enjoying a successful period in the early part of 2010 provides no evidence that the operational terms, the Group also sold a 25% tremendous levels of media activity from the major minority stake in Rastreator to Mapfre S. A. Spains players will diminish in the near future.
This partial sale is consistent with Admirals approach of working with partners who Confused has continued to develop its product assist us in achieving profi table growth whilst at the range beyond car insurance and the proportion of same time reducing risk.
revenue generated from non-motor has once again increased, despite an 18% increase in motor LeLynx.
it revenue itself: In early 2010, two further European price comparison businesses were launched in France January and 2006 2007 2008 2009 Italy February.
Both opened for business on-time Non-motor revenue and under budget.
In common with other Admiral international launches, both will have modest % of total revenue 11% 15% 20% 23% starts, and will focus during 2010 on developing their website, panel of insurers, and testing various The most signifi cant of the non-motor products marketing campaigns.
remains household insurance comparison, but there is also notable contribution from van and Regulatory environment life insurance as well as a growing capability in Confused is regulated by the UK FSA as an comparison of money products such as credit insurance intermediary and is subject to all relevant cards and loans.
mediation rules, including those on solvency capital.
Despite the substantial competitive pressures and The European operations are all structured as increased media activity, Confused delivered a branches of the UK regulated entity, with the UK profi t margin of around one third.
This was down regulatory permission passported into Europe.
on 2008s result of 39%, but is a positive outcome in the context of the highly competitive UK price comparison market.
Admiral Group plc 18 Annual Report 2009
