40 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 12 The Group Executive Committee has primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations, within the agreed limits set by the Board.
Jrn Berget Chief Executive age 56 Executive Vice President & Managing Director BG Advance age 57 Membership of Group Executive Committees: Exploration and Appraisal, Investment, Group Skills and experience: Jrn joined the Group Performance and Reserves.
in November 2004 from Shell and brings over 30 years international experience in the oil 2.
Ashley Almanza and gas industry, covering all aspects of the Chief Financial officer and Executive Vice exploration and production business with President & Managing Director, Europe assignments in the UK, Europe, the Gulf, the and Central Asia age 46 Far East, South America and the USA.
He is Membership of Group Executive Committees: responsible for the following Group functions: Investment, Group Performance and Energy HSSE: geology & geophysics: petroleum Trading and Credit Risk.
engineering: engineering: operations: well engineering: contracts & procurement and 3.
Martin Houston strategy & portfolio development.
BG Advance Executive Director and Executive Vice is responsible for exploration, capital projects President & Managing Director, Americas and IT & technology and also provides the and Global LNG age 52 Group with technical and commercial assurance and services, including resourcing Membership of Group Executive Committees: Group Performance.
and development of staff capabilities.
Membership of Group Executive Committees: Exploration and Appraisal, Investment, Group Performance and Reserves.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 41 34 5 89 10 5.
Graham Vinter Executive Vice President, Human Resources Executive Vice President & Managing Director, General Counsel age 54 age 43 Africa, Middle East and Asia age 44 Skills and experience: Graham joined BG Group Skills and experience: Prior to joining as General Counsel in November 2007 and has Skills and experience: Prior to joining the responsibility for the legal affairs of the Group.
Group in 2006, Robert worked as a senior BG Group in 2008, Sami spent his career HR consultant for Ernst & Young and Mercer with Schlumberger and fullled a number Prior to this, he spent 27 years with the of key leadership roles with them, the latest Human Resource Consulting in the UK and international law rm, Allen & Overy LLP being president of Schlumberger's worldwide Canada.
He is a chartered accountant and where he was a partner for just under 20 years drilling and measurements business based holds a Masters in Finance from London and was global head of projects from 1996 to in Houston.
Grahams experience includes advising on energy transactions in Europe, the Middle East, He was appointed to his current position in Robert is currently responsible for all matters Asia and elsewhere.
July 2009, having previously been Senior Vice relating to human resources strategy and policy.
President, Operations and Developments in He was appointed to his current position in Membership of Group Executive Committees: BG Advance.
February 2009, having previously been General Investment and Governance.
Sami is currently responsible for the Groups 10.
Keith Hubber activities across Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
Sir John Grant KCMG Membership of Group Executive Committees: Executive Vice President, Policy and Corporate Skills and experience: Before joining the Group Performance.
Affairs age 55 Group in 2001, Keith worked as a lawyer in private practice in Bristol and London.
Skills and experience: Sir John joined the Group 8.
Catherine Tanna in September 2009 from BHP Billiton where he Executive Vice President & Managing Director, Prior to becoming Company Secretary in was president, Europe.
Formerly, he worked in Australia age 48 November 2007, he held a number of roles the Diplomatic Service, holding various posts within the Groups Legal Department and Skills and experience: Catherine joined the in Stockholm, Moscow and Brussels, where he acted as General Counsel from May to Group in March 2009.
Formerly, she worked was the UKs Permanent Representative to the November 2007, having previously been for Shell where she gained extensive LNG, European Union for four years.
Chief Counsel, Corporate from July 2004. gas transmission and power distribution He is responsible for government and public experience, and before that she worked in As Company Secretary, he is responsible for affairs, communications, social performance several exploration and production roles with advising the Board, through the Chairman, and Business Principles.
She is a qualied solicitor in on all governance matters.
Membership of Group Executive Committees: Membership of Group Executive Committees: Investment and Governance.
Based in Brisbane, Catherine is responsible Governance.
for the Groups activities in Australia.
Membership of Group Executive Committees: Group Performance.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
