E n e v l i p r o o e n P m r e u n O t 34 Directors Report: Business Review The way we work BG Groups Business Principles set out the values and behaviours that we believe are integral to the creation of sustainable value for our shareholders.
BG Groups Business Principles define the long-term performance.
In our view, there standards of ethical conduct against which is no trade-off between performance and we measure ourselves.
They also define the principles: the former is underpinned by a Groups responsibilities to its employees, to commitment to apply the latter across all Business the societies within which the Group works of our businesses.
Principles and to the environment.
Delivery of the Groups business objectives The Group believes that operating in depends on the development of positive accordance with its Business Principles relationships with a wide range of key is an essential prerequisite for sustainable stakeholders, including governments, Conduct BG Group believes that the manner in which Compliance Unit to coordinate anti-corruption a company achieves its objectives matters activities within the Group and promote as much as the outcome.
The Units responsibilities delivered with integrity and transparency will include deterring and detecting breaches is signicantly more likely to create value of BG Groups Ethical Conduct Policy and over the long-term compared with managing the BG Group Speak Up Policy.
approaches that do not conform to the BG Groups Speak Up Policy provides for highest ethical standards.
employees and third parties such as Business Principles The Group has developed a range of training contractors to raise concerns in confidence modules and compliance monitoring systems and anonymously via an independent external We act with integrity, fairness and to seek to ensure that all employees understand provider.
The Groups Speak Up Policy includes transparency and follow core rules dening acceptable a duty on all employees to report suspected conduct.
During the year, the Group also breaches of the Business Principles or other We comply with legal, regulatory and worked with contractor companies to design misconduct, either by raising concerns with licence requirements and test a new system to identify and address line managers or via the Speak Up Policy.
We do not tolerate corruption in any form, areas in which contractor activities might During 2009, there were 125 cases reported whether direct or indirect compromise the Groups Business Principles.
under the Speak Up Policy, compared with Our investment criteria take account of In 2009, BG Group approved the 70 cases reported in 2008.
2009 was the first economic returns, environmental impacts, establishment of an Ethical Conduct full year for the new Speak Up Policy.
social consequences and human rights High standards of corporate governance are integral to the way we manage our business Our People The expertise, integrity and creativity of The Group is committed to developing BG Groups employees is central to the the potential of its people.
conduct a formal review of each employees development every year.
As at 31 December 2009, BG Group employed a total of 6 191 people, drawn from more than Safety 75 nationalities, the majority of whom work The safety of people and operations is outside the UK.
The Group takes the issues of BG Groups highest priority.
However, the equality, diversity and the full and fair management of effective safety systems treatment of people with disabilities seriously Business Principles across the Groups worldwide contractor and encourages its partners to do likewise.
community is a significant challenge, We treat people with fairness, respect particularly in countries where the Groups BG Group seeks to provide attractive career and decency mandatory safety standards are more opportunities and to support career mobility We help employees develop their potential demanding than those evident in local across its global workforce.
During the year, working practices.
Additionally, wide 17% of employees changed roles within We believe that all injuries are preventable the Group, and 623 employees were on variations between countries in cultural We provide healthy, safe and secure work attitudes towards hazards can have the effect assignments outside their home country.
The environments employee turnover rate for 2009 was 7%.
of circumventing formalised safety processes.
com t c S o u c d i n e t o y C Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 35 communities, partners, contractors, employees The principles set out below are therefore Further information on BG Groups and customers.
Without a strong alignment at the core of the Groups commitment to performance and approach to between the Groups ambitions and the sustainability: a commitment which is sustainability can be found in our objectives of our stakeholders, business success overseen at Board level by the Sustainability online Sustainability Report at over the long-term cannot be guaranteed.
Committee, details of which are set out on www.
Equally, in our view, the most enduring and mutually beneficial relationships are those which are founded on the Groups resolve to adhere to the Business Principles.
com sustainability BG Group believes the increase in reported Every report was fully investigated, and all cases year-on-year is due to the extension investigations were monitored by the General The BG Group Ethical Conduct Policy of the new Policys scope to cover breaches Counsel.
As a result of these investigations, defines the core ethical behaviours of our Business Principles, the new duty on disciplinary action ranging from a formal expected of all employees, including: employees to report their concerns, measures warning up to dismissal was taken against we do not give or receive bribes or to increase the awareness of the Policy and 15 employees and contractors.
facilitation payments: the introduction of a broader range of The Business Principles Investigations we apply strict limits to the value reporting routes compared with the previous Committee has oversight of the concerns of corporate hospitality and gifts whistleblowing policy.
It reviews investigations given or received, particularly in Reported cases break down as follows: and ensures the appropriate action is taken the case of public ofcials: to address issues identied, providing 44% related to general workplace concerns, we do not make political donations feedback to the relevant business unit for including allegations of harassment and or incur political expenditure: action, while preserving condentiality.
The unfair treatment: we seek to avoid any real or General Counsel provides quarterly statistical perceived conict of interest: and 32% related to malpractice, including reports to the Governance Committee and allegations of corruption: the Group Executive Committee GEC.
The we conduct appropriate due diligence GEC, Sustainability Committee and Audit in the selection of joint venture 18% related to fraud: and Committee are also provided with an annual partners and contractors.
com sustainability BG Group is committed to working with Overall TRCF performance improved in 2009 Total Recordable Case Frequency per million work hours contractors to ensure that their safety to 1.59.
However, the Group did not achieve its practices are in line with the safety standards full year target of 1.35, despite a significant expected of the Groups own employees.
improvement in overall performance as the Despite that commitment, as the Chief year progressed: TRCF for the second half of 3 Executive reports in his statement on pages 2009 was 1.27.
8 to 9, during 2009, two contractors died The 2009 TRCF gure includes data from while performing services for BG Group.
In the QGC business in Australia, acquired 2010, the Group will further strengthen its by BG Group in late 2008.
At the time of 2 efforts to ensure that contractors develop the acquisition, QGCs safety performance was appropriate levels of safety competency.
inferior to the BG Group average.
Safety Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF performance at QGC improved markedly in measures the number of injuries per million 2009 and will continue to be a focus area 1 work hours and is the headline indicator in 2010.
If QGC data is excluded, the Groups of the Groups safety performance.
overall TRCF for the year falls to 1.35.
Reecting this, TRCF is one of the Groups key performance indicators see page 4.
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2.39 1.66 1.58 1.74 1.59 36 Directors Report: Business Review The way we work continued Society Achievement of BG Groups long-term During the year, BG Group continued business objectives depends to a significant to implement the standard across all extent on the support of host communities, Group-operated businesses, with training governments and other stakeholders with and capability development in Australia, a local interest in the Groups activities.
Bolivia, Brazil, India, Italy and Nigeria.
By Many of the Groups operations are located the end of 2009, the standard had been in areas with complex social, developmental introduced in the 10 priority assets assessed and economic challenges.
BG Group aims to have the highest levels of social to contribute to the socio-economic aspects performance exposure, and good progress of the broader sustainable development was being made towards compliance.
agenda of host communities and The Social Performance Standard requires governments, as encapsulated within the BG Group businesses to undertake a number Groups Social Performance governance of critical activities including the development framework and Standard.
of a socio-economic baseline assessment, and Business Principles The governance framework consists of a policy the creation of a detailed Social Performance statement, the Social Performance Standard implementation plan.
We work to ensure that neighbouring together with implementation guidelines The socio-economic baseline assessment communities benefit from our presence and tools and an assurance process.
gathers quantitative and qualitative data on an enduring basis The Social Performance Standard is closely on a range of factors, including health, We listen to neighbouring communities aligned with the International Finance education, employment, mortality and and take account of their interests Corporation IFC Policy and Performance access to infrastructure, which indicate the We support human rights within our Standards on Social and Environmental current status of the community.
Generally areas of influence Sustainability, which are the industry undertaken by independent experts, the benchmarks for good practice.
The baseline assessment provides a blueprint BG Group Social Performance Standard is for the management of all aspects of Social integrated into the Groups core business Performance, helping the Groups businesses processes, including the development to identify and manage potential risks which project value assurance process.
could adversely affect the communities Environment Climate change is an issue of critical global in detail on progress against its GHG concern.
The challenge for society is to meet reduction target in its annual Sustainability growing energy needs while managing the Report, which can be found online at growth of, and ultimately reducing, www.
com sustainability greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
In 2009, operations directly under the control Although non-hydrocarbon energy sources of BG Group emitted 8.6 million tonnes are growing in scale and signicance, they carbon dioxide equivalent CO e, a decrease 2 currently meet only a small proportion of overall of 0.2 million tonnes 2% compared to 2008. global energy demand.
Fossil fuels will therefore The Group also measures CO e emissions 2 continue to be the predominant global energy on an equity-share basis, reporting those source in the near and medium-term future.
emissions as a proportion of the total in line GHG emissions from natural gas combustion with the Groups equity share in the operation, are on average 22% lower than emissions from regardless of control.
Equity share emissions oil use and 40% lower on average than coal.
from BG Group-operated and non-operated Business Principles BG Group believes that natural gas is an activities were 13.9 million tonnes CO e, essential bridge fuel, helping to meet growing 2 We make a positive contribution to the approximately the same as the 2008 emissions.
global energy needs while also contributing to protection of the environment strategies to limit GHG emissions.
In 2007, BG Group committed to We go beyond compliance with local improvements to existing operations and BG Groups strategic analysis of the business environmental regulation to meet proposed new projects in order to achieve a risks arising from climate change includes an internationally accepted best practice sustainable reduction in the Groups GHG assessment of the physical risks to operations, We reduce to the minimum practicable emissions of one million tonnes by 2012.
The as well as the potential impact on financial any adverse effects of our operations on target reduction is measured against a performance arising from actual or proposed the environment regulatory schemes to disincentivise or cap no-action base case across existing and GHG emissions.
The Group also works to minimise its own As at 31 December 2009, BG Group had GHG emissions in its operations, reporting achieved a sustainable GHG reduction of www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 37 More online at www.
In 2009, BG Group completed Social Performance standard baseline assessments in six priority countries.
Commitments under the BG Group BG Group baseline assessments are generally Human Rights Policy include: Understanding the context carried out at the same time as, or shortly we will pay fair wages and will before, social impact assessments.
Socio-economic baseline assessments not employ forced, bonded or Local impact assessments The Social Performance implementation plan child labour: Consultation with local stakeholders then builds on the detailed information we seek to ensure any security yielded from the socio-economic baseline forces guarding our operations assessment to provide a structured respect human rights: framework for the management of social risks.
we will take particular measures The plan provides the Groups businesses with where our operations may impact a clear denition of how best to engage the human rights of indigenous Managing Social Performance risks community stakeholders and achieve the peoples: and Involuntary resettlement of delivery of enduring local benets.
In 2009, we encourage our partners and communities Social Performance plans were developed in contractors to demonstrate the eight priority countries.
Indigenous peoples rights same level of commitment to Cultural heritage issues Human rights human rights.
Targeting appropriate social investment BG Group supports the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as well as the core International Labour Organisation conventions on equality, Providing assurance freedom of association and the abolition of Approval of Social Performance plans forced and child labour.
The Group is a Informing value assurance processes signatory to the United Nations Global Evaluation and reporting Compact UNGC and supports the UNGCs six principles relating to human rights.
The Group is also fully committed to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
com sustainability approximately 581 000 tonnes and is on a GHG emissions: by source track to meet its 2012 target.
million tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent The BG Group environmental standards address areas including: Local environmental protection air quality, based on UK, EU and BG Group takes a structured approach to 10 US standards: the implementation of environmental risk management.
water quality, based on UK, EU 8 and US standards: This approach includes undertaking greenhouse gas management, Environmental Impact Assessments in 6 aimed at reducing GHG emissions parallel with environmental engineering per unit of production, gas processes when planning new projects, throughput, gas transported or and a requirement that BG Group operations 4 electricity produced: seek to identify and apply the Best Available Techniques for environmental protection the use of Best Available 2 through design.
In 2009, the Group also Techniques for environmental introduced a new Biodiversity Standard to protection to reduce environmental be put into effect across BG Group-operated impacts to a practicable minimum: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 businesses.
resource use and waste management, aimed at At the end of 2009, 86% of the Groups Venting Distribution losses minimising resource demand operated businesses had been certied to the Flaring Electricity generation and waste generation: and International Environmental Management Fuel use biodiversity, setting out details Standard ISO 14001.
The Group continues to of requirements to promote and work towards full ISO 14001 certication in a Under BG Group control.
Excludes system fugitive losses of no more than 21 000 tonnes CO e per annum.
2 protect biodiversity within the all major BG Group operations.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
