38 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Board of Directors 12 3 78 9 3.
He is a fellow of the Geological 1.
Sir Robert Wilson KCMG Chief Financial officer and Executive Vice Society of London.
Chairman age 66 President & Managing Director, Europe & Appointed Chairman in January 2004, External appointments: No external director Central Asia age 46 having been a Non-Executive Director appointments.
Appointed Chief Financial officer in August since September 2002.
2002 and assumed interim responsibility for 5.
Baroness Hogg Committee membership: Chairmans, Finance, the management of the Europe & Central Asia Non-Executive Director age 63 Nominations, Remuneration and Sustainability.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Skills and experience: Most of Sir Roberts Committee membership: Group Executive, January 2005. career was with Rio Tinto where he became Chairmans and Finance.
The Board nominated her as Senior Chief Executive in 1991 and then Executive Skills and experience: Ashley joined British Independent Director from 1 January 2009.
Chairman from 1997 until his retirement Gas plc in 1993 and has held a number of key in 2003.
Committee membership: Audit, Nominations management roles in BG Group, including and Remuneration.
From 2003-2009, he was non-executive Group Finance Director, seeing the Group chairman of The Economist Group.
Skills and experience: Baroness Hogg is a former through the fide-merger of Lattice in 2000.
He head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit and has External appointments: Sir Robert is is currently responsible for the management extensive experience of business, government currently senior independent director of the Europe and Central Asia region, Group and the media, including her former role as a of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
finance, tax, treasury, investor relations, mergers Governor of the BBC.
and acquisitions, internal audit and secretariat.
Frank Chapman External appointments: Baroness Hogg A chartered accountant with a MBA from Chief Executive age 56 is chairman of 3i Group plc and Frontier London Business School, he serves as chairman Appointed Chief Executive in October 2000, Economics Ltd and is deputy chairman of of The 100 Group, which represents finance having been appointed to the Board in the Financial Reporting Council.
In May 2010, directors of the UKs largest listed companies.
Baroness Hogg will become chairman of the External appointments: No external director Financial Reporting Council.
Committee membership: Group Executive, appointments.
Martin Houston Skills and experience: Frank joined British Gas Non-Executive Director age 58 Executive Director and Executive Vice plc in November 1996 as Managing Director, Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in President & Managing Director, Americas Exploration and Production.
He is an engineer July 2000. and Global LNG age 52 and has worked in the oil and gas industry for Committee membership: Audit and Appointed to the Board in February 2009.
Prior to joining the Group, he spent a Sustainability.
total of 22 years with Shell and BP.
Committee membership: Group Executive Skills and experience: Peter was formerly and from February 2010 Sustainability.
External appointments: No external director executive vice president, rening and appointments.
Skills and experience: Martin joined British marketing at BP Amoco plc.
Previous roles Gas plc in 1983 and was appointed BG Group at BP included deputy chief executive of BP Oil Executive Vice President in 2000.
Based in and chief executive of BP Oil Europe.
He gained Houston, he is responsible for the Groups considerable gas experience in international activities in the Americas and for the Groups LNG and in UK natural gas as head of BPs UK global Liqueed Natural Gas LNG activities.
Martin has gained extensive international experience from a wide variety of technical, External appointments: Peter is a member commercial and management roles and has of the advisory board of Carlyle Riverstone played a leading role in developing the Groups Energy Partners, a US private equity fund.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 39 45 6 10 11 12 9.
Jrgen Dormann Non-Executive Director age 58 Non-Executive Director age 67 Non-Executive Director age 70 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in April 2007.
Committee membership: Remuneration Committee membership: Audit and Committee membership: Audit and and Sustainability.
Skills and experience: Jrgen was chairman of Skills and experience: Dr Hood was viceSkills and experience: A chartered accountant, Adecco S. A. Switzerland until 31 December 2008 chancellor of the University of Oxford from Lord Sharman was chairman of KPMG International from 1997 to 1999, having been and was chairman of Swiss-based ABB Ltd from 2004 until September 2009.
He was formerly senior partner since 1994.
November 2001 to May 2007, having been a vice-chancellor of the University of Auckland non-executive director since May 1998.
Prior to and a member of the Growth and Innovation External appointments: Lord Sharman is his roles at ABB, he had a successful career at Advisory Board and the Enterprise Council of non-executive chairman of Aviva plc and Hoechst and Aventis spanning almost 40 years.
the Prime Minister of New Zealand.
He has also a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc.
He has previously been a non-executive director been a director of a number of New Zealandof IBM Corporation and vice-chairman of based companies including the Fonterra 12.
Philippe Varin Sano-Aventis S. A. Co-operative Group Ltd and ASB Bank Limited, a Non-Executive Director age 57 subsidiary of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in External appointments: Jrgen is chairman of and was chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd. May 2006. the board at Metall Zug AG Switzerland and Sulzer Limited Switzerland.
External appointments: Dr Hood is currently Committee membership: Audit and non-executive chairman of Matakina Remuneration.
Sir David Manning GCMG CVO Technology Ltd in New Zealand and became Skills and experience: Until April 2009, Non-Executive Director age 60 president and chief executive officer of the Philippe had spent six years as chief executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in Robertson Foundation in January 2010. of Corus, during which time he led the merger July 2008. with Tata Steel, India in 2007.
Mark Seligman Committee membership: Sustainability.
Philippe spent 25 years with the Pechiney Non-Executive Director age 54 Group, most latterly as senior executive vice Skills and experience: Sir David was a member Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in president of the aluminium sector and a of the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce for December 2009. member of Pechineys executive committee.
35 years, serving in Warsaw, New Delhi, Paris, Committee membership: Audit and Moscow, Tel Aviv and Brussels.
He retired from External appointments: Philippe was Sustainability both from February 2010. the Diplomatic Service in 2008 after four years appointed chairman of the managing board of PSA Peugeot Citroen in June 2009. as British Ambassador to the United States.
Skills and experience: A chartered accountant, Sir David has previously been a non-executive Mark has held senior roles at Barclays fide Zoete director of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Wedd and SG Warburg & Co Ltd.
He is a former chairman of UK Investment Banking at Credit External appointments: Sir David is also a Suisse and a former member of the banks non-executive director of Lockheed Martin Global Investment Banking Executive Board.
UK Holdings Ltd, and is a trustee of Turner Contemporary.
External appointments: Mark is currently a senior adviser to Credit Suisse.
He is a non-executive director of G4S plc and serves as an alternate member of the Panel of Takeovers and Mergers and is chairman of the Industrial Development Advisory Board.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
