2 Directors Report: Business Review Our business BG Group is engaged in the exploration, development, production, transmission, distribution and supply of natural gas and oil.
The Group also has a number of power generation interests.
BG Groups operations are organised on a regional basis.
BG Advance supports the regions in achieving technical excellence and building long-term competitive advantage.
Exploration and Production E&P BG Group explores for, develops, produces and markets gas and oil around the world.
The Group uses its technical, commercial ALASKA and gas chain skills to deliver projects at competitive cost and to maximise the sales value of its hydrocarbons.
CANADA Total operating profit USA 2 087m 2009 3 512m 2008 TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Liquefied Natural Gas LNG BG Groups LNG activities combine liquefaction and regasication facilities with the purchasing, shipping, marketing BRAZIL and sale of LNG.
BOLIVIA Total operating profit 1 551m 2009 CHILE 1 585m 2008 URUGUAY ARGENTINA Transmission and Distribution T&D BG Groups T&D activities are focused in Brazil and India, developing both markets and infrastructure for the delivery of gas.
BG Advance Americas and Global LNG Key activities Key activities Total operating profit Group technical functions: Geology and E&P activities in Trinidad and Tobago, Geophysics, Petroleum Engineering and Bolivia, USA, Canada and Brazil 426m 2009 Developments, Engineering, Operations Major discoveries and exploration 160m 2008 and Well Engineering, Economics and and appraisal activity in Brazil Commercial, Contracts and Procurement Alliance with EXCO Resources, Inc. and IT and Technology to develop US shale gas Managing exploration, capital projects, Power Generation Major global LNG marketer Group health, safety, security and Power Exporting gas as LNG from Trinidad environment HSSE and asset integrity and Tobago BG Group develops, owns and Coordination and development of operates a portfolio of gas-red LNG regasication capacity in the BG Group strategy and portfolio power generation plants.
USA and Chile Longer-term planning, capability Control of Comgs, Brazils largest gas development and optimising deployment distribution company of technical and commercial people Total operating profit across the Group US gas marketing and power generation Managing the Groups technical 158m 2009 and commercial governance and 118m 2008 assurance processes For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 77. www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 3 NORWAY UK KAZAKHSTAN ITALY AREAS OF PA CHINA TUNISIA EGYPT ALGERIA LIBYA INDIA THAILAND OMAN PHILIPPINES NIGERIA MALAYSIA SINGAPORE AUSTRALIA MADAGASCAR Europe and Central Asia Africa, Middle East and Asia Australia Key activities Key activities Key activities E&P activities in the UK and Kazakhstan E&P activities in Egypt, India, Tunisia E&P activities in Surat and Bowen Basins, and Thailand Queensland Major E&P operator in the UK North Sea Exploration acreage and or discovered Extensive coal seam gas CSG acreage Joint operator of the super-giant reserves and resources located in Algeria, position held through QGC, a BG Group Karachaganak oil and gas condensate areas of the Palestinian Authority, China, business eld in Kazakhstan Libya, Madagascar, Nigeria and Oman Total reserves and resources of some Exploration and appraisal portfolio Exporting gas as LNG from Egypt 17.3 trillion cubic feet in Norway LNG aggregator agreement to supply Developing two-train, 8.5 million tonnes per LNG regasication and storage capacity Singapore market annum LNG project on Curtis Island, near in the UK Gladstone, with potential for expansion Interests in two Indian gas distribution Pursuing LNG regasication terminal companies Power generation capacity utilising CSG in Italy Power generation interests in Malaysia Gas marketing and pipeline capacity and the Philippines in the UK, including the Central Area Transmission System pipeline Power generation interests in the UK and Italy Exclusive right to supply only.
BG Group net reserves and resources are as at end 2009, pre-CNOOC farm-out 5%.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
