10 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic review Strategy at a glance BG Group is an integrated and internationally diversied energy company that is positioned to deliver rates of growth which are a multiple of the industry average.
The Groups focus is on delivering long-term growth in earnings and dividends.
The business strategy supporting BG Groups investment proposition is straightforward and proven.
INTEGRATED GAS MAJOR The Group identies high-value markets that provide opportunities for growth, then nds competitively priced resources to supply those markets.
CONNECT GAS TO SECURING COMPETITIVELY HIGH-VALUE MARKETS BG Group possesses the skills PRICED RESOURCES throughout the gas value chain Build and access markets to capture opportunities to create Equity reserves Serve customers value for shareholders.
Contracted resources SKILLS TO SUCCEED ACROSS THE GAS CHAIN A growing market portfolio Markets supplied by BG Group BG Groups business interests and customer relationships extend from fast-growing economies in China, India and South America RUSSIA to substantial established gas markets in UK CANADA the USA, the UK and the Asia-Pacic rim.
BELGIUM SOUTH KAZAKHSTAN ITALY FRANCE KOREA GREECE USA SPAIN TURKEY PORTUGAL CHINA JAPAN TUNISIA PUERTO KUWAIT TAIWAN RICO EGYPT MEXICO TRINIDAD INDIA THAILAND AND TOBAGO BRAZIL BOLIVIA AUSTRALIA CHILE ARGENTINA Markets Resources Skills BG Groups business model is founded on BG Group has built material resource positions BG Group has extensive experience at all developing an in-depth understanding of points of the gas value chain, from exploration across an attractive balance of investment selected markets with sustainable growth through to delivery to the end user.
settings in both the developed world and or supply restructuring potential.
Once those within developing economies.
In recent years, The Group has the people, relationships markets have been identied, the Group the Group has actively strengthened and and skills to operate safely and sustainably then develops options to supply them with rebalanced its resource portfolio.
The new in a wide variety of offshore and onshore competitively priced resources from within projects expected to make the largest environments and geological plays across its growing resource portfolio.
contribution to our target of industry-leading five continents, combining a proven track rates of growth over the next decade are in The Groups Liqueed Natural Gas LNG record in nding and developing resources businesses play a key role in this successful investment-grade countries: Australia, Brazil with commercial expertise.
market-focused global gas strategy, with an and the USA.
array of global customer relationships.
To BG Group also has significant resource date, the Group has delivered LNG to 21 out businesses in Egypt, India, Kazakhstan, Trinidad of the 22 LNG-importing nations.
The Group and Tobago and Tunisia and is a leading operator also leverages its downstream skills to capture in the UK North Sea.
Further details are set out value from its Transmission and Distribution and Power businesses.
in the Operating Review on pages 16 to 23. www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 11 Performance A cost leader E&P benchmarking annual unit opex cost trend $ boe BG Group is cost-competitive compared with its peers.
16 Average Exploration and Production E&P nding and development and unit operating 12 costs are industry upper-quartile.
As the Group develops its total reserves and 8 resources base, it expects to maintain this competitive cost advantage for many years to come.
4 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 BG Group Top quartile Combined companies Bottom quartile Source: Evaluate Energy 2009, BG Group.
Peer group includes super-majors, US and European integrated majors Delivering value for shareholders Since the shareholders of the former E&P volumes have increased from an average The growth in BG Groups underlying British Gas plc approved the first demerger of 165 000 boed in 1997 to more than businesses has produced a strong operating in 1997 which created two separate entities, 644 000 boed in 2009: a 290% increase profit trend since 1997, equating to a BG plc and Centrica plc, BG Group has over a 12-year period which is equivalent to a compound annual growth rate of around achieved a substantial increase in upstream compound annual growth rate of around 12%.
31% over a 12-year period see chart below.
production as well as significant growth in BG Group has also demonstrated a strong In turn, this has been matched by strong the volumes of contracted LNG delivered to performance in LNG.
The total volume of LNG shareholder returns, with a share price increase global markets by the Groups shipping fleet.
purchased under long-term contracts and of more than 400% since the second demerger The Group has also established substantial delivered to customers increased from 1.9 mtpa in 2000.
For details of total shareholder return and growing gas distribution businesses in in 2003 to 12.7 mtpa in 2009: a 570% increase compared to BG Groups peers, see the Key Brazil and India.
over a six-year period which is equivalent to a Performance Indicators on pages 4 to 5.
For compound annual growth rate of around 37%.
performance relative to the FTSE100 share index, see page 55.
Results prior to 2003 stated under UK GAAP.
LNG volumes are measured against a 2003 reference point when the Atlantic LNG joint venture Train 3, in which BG Group is a partner, commenced commercial production.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic review continued Key strategic developments During 2009, there were substantial and positive developments in BG Groups plans in Australia and Brazil which materially advanced the Groups strategy.
The Group is on track to sanction the Queensland Curtis LNG plant in Australia this year.
In Brazil, excellent progress with the Santos Basin appraisal and commercialisation programme has signicantly fide-risked the Groups investment in the development of these world-class pre-salt resources.
There were further advances in the UK North Sea, and the Group entered into a US shale gas alliance.
Unconventional gas A significant new growth opportunity Unconventional gas resources are set to play an increasingly important role in BG Groups global portfolio.
Coal seam gas and shale gas resources are abundant, some of the largest accumulations are located in areas of low political risk such as Australia and the USA, and the development of new technologies means these resources can now be produced at scale and with attractive economics.
Coal seam gas are proven and effective.
Wells are Coal seam gas occurs when coal is formed underground by geological processes drilled at ground level down into the coal seam, pumping out the which heat and compress plant matter.
As the coal is formed, large quantities of gas water to release the gas, which is processed and then piped to a are generated and stored within it.
Coal has a relatively large internal surface area compression plant for injection into gas transmission pipelines.
and can store up to six or seven times as much gas as a conventional gas reservoir Large numbers of wells are normally of equal rock volume.
required to produce coal seam gas.
The gas which is predominantly pure However, as coal seams are methane is trapped by the pressure generally found at shallow depths of water within and around the coal of 300-1 000 metres, individual coal seams.
Although coal seam gas presents seam gas wells are signicantly a significant hazard for miners operating simpler, cheaper and faster to drill underground, the techniques for its than conventional gas wells.
extraction for use by the gas industry Coal seam gas well, Queensland, Australia Shale gas Shale gas is a form of natural gas which Reservoirs are difficult to produce due is stored in organic-rich rocks, such as to their low permeability.
However, dark-coloured shale, within continuous recent technological developments accumulations that extend across have led to a significant increase in large areas.
shale gas production in the USA.
Those techniques include horizontal drilling, Gas can be stored in shale by a number in which the drill bit is directed along a of different geological mechanisms: path through the most productive areas it can be held within the pores of the of shale beds, and hydraulic fracture rock: trapped within naturally occurring stimulation techniques or fracing, where fractures: or adsorbed onto the shale water and sand is injected under high materials or organic matter within pressure into underground shale beds to the shale.
fracture the rock and release the gas.
Shale gas drilling, Louisiana, USA www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 13 Australia QGC will be a material new source of equity LNG, In February 2010, BG Group awarded BG Group has made significant progress controlled and operated by BG Group and the plant engineering, procurement in the development of its QGC business located close to the worlds biggest LNG and construction contracts on terms since the initial acquisition in 2008.
Total markets on the Asia-Pacic rim.
The plant which position QCLNG at the low end coal seam gas reserves and resources have capacity has now been increased from of the unit cost curve when benchmarked increased to 17.3 trillion cubic feet tcf, up 7.4 million tonnes per annum mtpa of against contemporary projects.
from 11 tcf at the end of 2008, with further LNG to 8.5 mtpa.
Project development is The Group expects to sanction the QCLNG upside potential in the future from QGCs underpinned by a highly successful marketing project later this year, subject to regulatory 120 000 square kilometres of acreage in campaign which has yielded agreements in and environmental approvals, and the plant the Surat and Bowen basins.
The QGC Chile, China, and Singapore for up to 8.3 mtpa business is expected to drive substantial is expected to come onstream in 2014. of LNG.
production volume growth for BG Group in the first half of the decade, ultimately rising to an anticipated net plateau Australia: QGC upstream Australia production 000s boed production level of around 225 000 boed.
GLADSTONE QGC made excellent progress in eld 300 development and planning in 2009 and expects to be operating around 1 800 250 coal seam gas wells by the end of 2014, increasing to more than 6 000 wells over 200 Walloon Fairway the life of the two LNG trains at the Queensland Curtis LNG QCLNG plant.
150 Gas will be brought 340 kilometres from WALLUMBILLA the eld to the LNG plant by a 42-inch CHINCHILLA ROMA 100 trunk line, with good progress in land access agreements and pipeline supply DALBY 50 and construction tenders in 2009.
TOOWOOMBA MOONIE Queensland Curtis LNG 2010 2015 2020 The QCLNG plant, on Curtis Island near the port of Gladstone in Queensland, Approximate QGC JV acreage Net BG Group Walloon Fairway Partner Other gas supplying QCLNG BG Group net reserves and resources are as at the end At 2010 reference conditions see page 130.
Proposed pipeline of 2009, pre-CNOOC farm-out 5%.
BG Group net production is pre-CNOOC farm-out 5%.
BG Group net reserves and resources are BG Groups investment in EXCO During 2009, BG Group entered into now around 3.2 tcf.
Net shale gas production demonstrates attractive economics, an alliance with EXCO Resources, Inc. is expected to increase steeply towards the with an economic break-even point EXCO, a US shale gas company.
middle of the decade to around 100 000 boed.
The EXCO alliance also added new US midstream interests to BG Groups Areas of operation BG Group net production 000s boed portfolio, with access to markets in the southern and eastern states which 120 complement the Groups existing US gas SHREVEPORT LONGVIEW marketing operations based in Houston.
100 US shale gas has the potential to transform Haynesville and Cotton Valley 80 supply to the worlds largest gas market.
The BG Group-EXCO assets are of a high TEXAS LOUISIANA 60 quality and are positioned at the low end LAKE CHARLES of the cost curve.
HOUSTON 40 Since the alliance was announced in June 2009, BG Group and EXCO have 20 G G GU UL LF F O OF F M ME EX XI IC CO O expanded the core Haynesville holdings through acquisition of additional acreage.
2010 2015 2020 Average shale gas well performance is Haynesville shale and Cotton Valley excellent, with high initial production Existing further potential Approximate BG Group EXCO JV acreage Based on exercising rm options by end of March 2010.
At 2010 reference conditions see page 130.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 Directors Report: Business Review Strategic review continued Key strategic developments continued Brazil BG Group has made significant progress Tupi-Iracema Iara and Carioca in the development of its interests in the The Tupi reservoir extends over more than Iara holds an estimated 3-4 billion boe ultra deepwater Santos Basin pre-salt 1 200 square kilometres and contains an of gross reserves and resources.
In 2009, the play, offshore Brazil.
Previous assessments partners re-entered the discovery well to estimated 5-8 billion boe of gross reserves that net reserves and resources exceeded and resources.
Wells on Tupi North East conduct a Drill Stem Test DST, however three billion boe were reinforced by test objectives were not achieved.
A new and Iracema showed excellent reservoir new information gathered in the year.
well will be drilled in 2010 and a DST will characteristics, and initial production BG Group and its partners have tested be conducted in 2011, with a 3D seismic potential on Iracema is outstanding at up the technology required for production campaign in 2010 and 2011 and an EWT to 50 000 barrels per day bopd per well.
The and have observed excellent reservoir in 2013.
Extended Well Test EWT on Tupi Sul has also characteristics across a number of exceeded expectations, owing at around On Carioca, BG Group and partners will drill locations, validating the Groups view that 20 000 bopd, constrained by facilities.
a further appraisal well during 2010 and will its developments are economically viable BG Group and its partners will produce oil begin an EWT at the end of the year.
Production is and gas using Floating Production, Storage already underway and is expected to rise and Ofoading FPSO modules.
The first Tupi steeply in the first half of the decade to FPSO is approaching completion, with first BG Group net production 000s boed reach more than 400 000 boed net to production expected around the end of the BG Group by 2020. year.
The first FPSO on Tupi North East is 500 planned to come onstream by 2013.
The full While predominantly an oil play, the eld development plan for Tupi-Iracema Santos Basin pre-salt also holds material envisages a total of up to 10 FPSOs and gas resources located close to large and 400 200-300 wells.
developing South American gas markets.
BG Group has a strong downstream Guar 300 presence in Brazil through its Comgs Productivity tests on Guar also demonstrated business, the largest gas distribution excellent reservoir characteristics, with an 200 company in the country.
outstanding initial production potential of up to 50 000 bopd per well.
Gross reserves and The Group is a member of a consortium 100 resources estimates of 1.1-2.0 billion boe were considering options to develop a Floating well ahead of initial estimates.
An EWT will Liqueed Natural Gas FLNG module for begin later in 2010.
The partners have signed the Santos Basin which could manufacture 2010 2015 2020 up to 3 mtpa of LNG for domestic and a letter of intent for the construction of a FPSO for the Guar eld, with first production export markets.
At 2010 reference conditions see page 130. expected early in 2013.
UK BG Group is one of the largest operators North Sea strategy has delivered a series BG Group net production 000s boed in the UK North Sea and believes there is of positive outcomes which have extended still significant remaining potential within the period of plateau production in each 200 the oil and gas accumulations of the UK successive year.
The Group continues 2009 saw further achievements against that to pursue opportunities to expand its strategy.
Net production from the Groups UK 150 UK upstream business, extending its North Sea interests amounted to 55.6 million 50 mmboe p. a. production hub strategy to tie in elds boe during the period under review.
across the Central North Sea.
100 The Group also made progress with projects During 2009, BG Group completed an asset intended to maintain production at similar swap with BP, acquiring BPs interests in levels in future years.
The Jasmine eld is the Armada, Everest and Lomond elds 50 moving towards production in 2012, and and assuming operatorship on Everest the Group has established a provisional and Lomond.
The transaction concentrated first production date of 2015 for the BG Groups position in the Central North BG Group-operated Jackdaw eld, with an 2006 2009 2012 2015 Sea and enabled the consolidation of the appraisal well planned for later in 2010.
Groups UK upstream activities in Aberdeen.
2004 Plan 2008 Plan Further Potential BG Groups aim is to maintain levels of net 2006 Plan 2010 Plan production from its UK North Sea interests At 2010 reference conditions see page 130. which exceed 50 million boe per year.
Over the last six years, the Groups UK www.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 15 Outlook Market context The challenging global economic conditions growth in the developing world is abundant and production, transmission in 2009 have led to weak energy demand anticipated to provide an important and utilisation technologies that are across a number of BG Groups core markets.
impetus to this change in market dynamics.
relatively efficient and cost-effective In the intervening period, the Group has compared with other energy sources.
As Although there are early signs of recovery taken active measures to lock in value to such, the environmental and industrial in some countries, the rate at which safeguard short-term trading performance benets of strategies to displace coal in economies return to growth or emerge in its LNG business.
favour of gas are well understood.
The Group therefore expects the pattern of energy Additionally, the outcome from the In BG Groups view, natural gas will prove United Nations climate change conference demand evident in 2009 to continue to be a vital component of the journey to through 2010, and anticipates only slight in Copenhagen has underscored once a lower-carbon future.
again that governments need credible growth in production volumes through In the medium-term, the Group therefore the rest of this year.
and practicable policies to meet national energy requirements while simultaneously expects gas demand to resume its pattern of However, it is BG Groups view that the seeking to achieve a significant reduction growth, driven by its abundance, economics present mismatch between capacity and in carbon emissions.
and by climate change imperatives.
demand in some markets is temporary and that economic recovery will have a Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive rebalancing effect over time.
Gas demand of the fossil fuels, with resources that are A new decade of high growth BG Groups substantial investments in to this increase in production in the early The Group has also taken steps to protect Australia, Brazil, the USA and elsewhere years of the decade.
LNG profitability amid difficult short-term across the portfolio are expected to support market conditions and has extended its In LNG, BG Group anticipates a strongly guidance for LNG profits to $1.8-2.0 billion industry-leading production growth over rising growth prole, with contracted the years ahead.
volumes expected to increase by 57% Positive developments during 2009 support between 2010 and 2015 to reach 20 mtpa.
the Groups confidence that upstream production will grow at the upper end of the target compound annual growth rate BG Group net production 000s boed of 6-8% between 2005 and 2020.
BG Group daily net production is expected to pass through the one million boed threshold by 1 600 1.6m boed around the middle of the decade, rising to 1.2-1.6 million boed by 2020.
Importantly, BG Group does not need to add assets to its global portfolio to achieve 1 200 1.2m boed the levels of growth anticipated.
The Group has already secured within its portfolio the discovered reserves and resources required to exceed the lower end of the target range, 800 with higher growth rates achievable from the risked exploration prospect inventory that the Group already owns today.
The anticipated growth will not be linear, 400 increasing only gradually in 2010 before production begins to ramp up in 2011.
The Group expects production to rise rapidly from 2012, with a growing contribution from the Santos Basin 202 10 010 2011 2012 2013 2014 22 00 15 15 2016 2017 2018 2019 202 20 020 developments offshore Brazil, QGC in Australia and the BG Group-EXCO All other countries Australia alliance in the USA.
Brazil Exploration The start-up of the Bongkot South eld in At 2010 reference conditions see page 130.
Thailand and the Jasmine eld in the UK North Sea are also expected to contribute BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
