62 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information There are a number of legal and regulatory requirements with which the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in default in BG Group must comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 the Act, supplying the information required by the notice and a the transfer Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
This section contains is of only part of his holding, and b the transfer is accompanied by a additional information, required by these laws and regulations to be certificate in a form satisfactory to the Directors stating that, after due included by the Directors in the Annual Report and Accounts.
and careful enquiries, the shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included in the transfer are Default Shares.
Where the Default Shares SHAREHOLDERS represent 0.25% or more of the existing shares of a class, the Directors Incorporation and Constitution can, at their absolute discretion, by notice to the shareholder, direct The Company is incorporated in England & Wales under company number that a any dividend or other money that would otherwise be payable 3690065.
The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares with a on the Default Shares shall be retained by the Company without any nominal value of 10p each.
liability to pay interest when that dividend or money is finally paid to the The Companys Articles of Association the Articles are available on the shareholder, and or b the shareholder will not be allowed to choose Companys website at www.
com to receive shares in place of dividends, and or c no transfer of any of the shares held by the shareholder will be registered unless one of the Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 11.30 am on Wednesday, provisos specified above is satisfied.
12 May 2010 in the Princess Suite at the Royal Berkshire Conference Centre Variation of rights Madejski Stadium, Reading, RG2 0FL.
The Notice of AGM together with an If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of shares, subject explanation of the proposed resolutions, including the proposed adoption to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights attaching to any of new articles of association by the Company, is set out on pages 134 to 139. class of shares provide otherwise, the special rights attaching to any of these A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published on the classes can be varied or abrogated as provided by those rights or approved by BG Group website.
a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, the holders of at least 75% of the existing shares of the class by nominal Amendment of the Articles value can give their consent in writing.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
As noted above, a special resolution proposing Alteration of share capital the adoption of new articles of association will be proposed at the AGM.
The shareholders can by ordinary resolution a consolidate, or consolidate Further details are set out in the Notice of AGM on pages 134 to 140. and then divide, all or any of the Companys share capital into new shares of a Substantial shareholders larger nominal amount than the existing shares, and b divide some or all of the Company's share capital into shares which are of a smaller nominal value At March 2010 the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of than the existing shares.
This is subject to any restrictions under the Act and the Company, disclosable under the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the directors: all other laws and regulations applying to the Company.
The resolution may provide that, as between the holders of the divided shares, different rights and Legal and General Group plc restrictions which the Company can apply to new shares may apply to all or and or its subsidiaries 160 832 510 4.76% any of the different divided shares.
The Company may reduce its share capital BlackRock Inc by special resolution confirmed by the court in accordance with Section 641 of and or its subsidiaries 247 478 776 7.33% the Act and subject to the Articles.
In accordance with Section 690 of the Act, the Company may purchase its own shares including any redeemable shares Voting rights subject to Chapter 4 of the Act and the Articles.
However, if the Company has When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting and vote, where existing shares that are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock there is a poll, subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class Exchange and that are convertible into equity shares, then the Company can of shares, if he is entitled to be present and to vote, he has one vote for every only buy back equity shares of that class if either the terms of issue of the share that he holds.
convertible shares permit the Company to buy back equity shares or the buy back or agreement to buy back has been approved by a special resolution To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting and how many votes passed by such holders.
can be cast, the notice of the meeting must give a time by which people must be entered on the Register in order to be entitled to attend or vote at Rights of foreign shareholders a meeting.
This time must not be more than 48 hours before the time fixed There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or the Articles for the meeting and for this purpose no account shall be taken of any part on the rights to own securities, including the rights of non-resident or foreign of a day that is not a working day.
Unless the Articles say otherwise, the shareholders to hold or exercise voting rights on the securities.
only people who can attend or vote at general meetings or exercise any Notification of the acquisition or disposal of major shareholdings other right conferred by being a shareholder in relation to general meetings, Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires disclosure to the are shareholders who have paid the company all calls, and all other sums, issuer by a holders of shares with voting rights attached, b those entitled relating to their shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
This to exercise voting rights, and c those holding financial instruments that result applies both to attending a meeting personally and to attending by proxy in a right to acquire shares with voting rights already in issue, when their or company representative.
interests reach, exceed, or fall below 3%, and every percentage point above 3%.
Restrictions on shareholders rights Transfer of shares If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under Section 793 Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue of any shares, of the Act requiring information about interests in shares, and has failed to any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
The Directors may refuse supply such information within 14 days of the notice, then subject to the to register a transfer of shares in certificated form which are not fully paid-up Articles and unless the Directors otherwise decide the shareholder is not or otherwise in accordance with the Articles.
However, if any of those shares for so long as the default continues entitled to attend or vote at a have been admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, the shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to a meeting Directors cannot refuse to register a transfer if this would stop dealings in the as holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default.
Any person who shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
acquires shares in relation to which a default has occurred Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify the person to whom the shares were to be transferred of the refusal, together with reasons the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover or one for the refusal, as soon as practicable and in any event within two months which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale to a person after the date on which the Company receives the transfer in the case of a unconnected with the shareholder: or share in certificated form or the instruction from the operator of the relevant system including CREST, in the case of a share in uncertificated form.
com Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Information 63 Share capital COMMUNITY In order to enable the Company to return value to shareholders, the Company Donations was given authority at the 2009 annual general meeting to make market During 2009, the Group donated around 240 000 to registered charities purchases of up to 335 780 660 of its own Ordinary 10p shares at a maximum in the UK.
More information on the Groups social performance and social price per share of 105% of the average middle market closing price of the investment activities can be found on pages 36 to 37 of this Report and in shares for the five trading days prior to the relevant purchase.
This authority the 2009 Sustainability Report, available online at will expire at the conclusion of the 2010 AGM and approval from shareholders www.
com sustainability will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority for a further year.
For The Groups policy is not to make donations for political purposes.
In 2009, further information and details of shares issued during the year, see page 73 no donations were made in any EU member state for political purposes, as and note 22, page 104. defined in Section 364 of the Act.
Dividends Suppliers The shareholders can declare final dividends by ordinary resolution.
The Group aims to adopt fair payment practices in line with each country No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
in which it operates and aims to pay all its creditors promptly and in No interim dividend shall be paid on shares that carry deferred or accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
It is the Groups non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any preferential dividend policy to agree the payment terms with each supplier at the start of business is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching to shares or the terms of any and to ensure that they are aware of the terms of payment.
The Group had shares provide otherwise, dividends are paid based on the amounts that 19 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2009 2008 20 days, based have been paid up on the shares in the relevant period.
on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary resolution SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS CHANGE OF CONTROL to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing specific assets.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon The Directors must give effect to such a resolution.
If a dividend has not been a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
claimed for one year, the Directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any Under the agreement governing the Companys equity investment in dividend that has not been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong Comgs, in the event of a change of control of the Company following a to the Company if the Directors so decide.
takeover bid, Shell Gas B. V. has the right to acquire the Companys equity in Comgs at market value.
In addition, in the event of a change of control Winding up affecting the Company or its relevant subsidiaries which are holding If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority of a special companies of Comgs the So Paulo State gas regulator, ARSEP, may resolution and any other sanction required by relevant law, divide among the require such change of control to be approved by them in order to avoid shareholders all or part of the assets of the Company or transfer any part of breach of the Comgs concession agreement.
the assets to trustees on trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan may claim to have a right to under the Articles that carries a liability.
acquire BG Groups interest in the Final Petroleum Sharing Agreement governing the operation of the Karachaganak gas condensate field RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT BG Group 32.5% or the shares in the company holding that interest in The Act requires the Directors Report to state any activities in the field of the event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
research and development undertaken by the Company.
The Company currently has no significant activities to report upon.
See note 3 on page 81 As at 31 December 2009, BG Energy Holdings Limited had bilateral committed for research and development expenditure included in the income statement.
multi-currency revolving borrowing facilities with a number of its relationship banks in an aggregate amount of $2 505 million.
BRANCHES When taken together, these facilities are significant to the ongoing liquidity BG Group, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of the Group and repayment or cancellation of any or all of them may be of different countries in which the business operates.
demanded upon a change of control of the Company.
EMPLOYEES No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Employees are informed about significant business issues and the Groups of control of the Company following a takeover bid are considered to be performance using email, webcasts, the Groups intranet and in-house significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group publications, as well as DVDs and briefing meetings at each business location.
When appropriate, consultation with employee and union representatives also takes place.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR OTHER ARRANGEMENTS Given the scope and diversity of BG Groups activities, BG Group does not The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously and encourages consider there are persons with whom the Company has contractual or its partners to do likewise.
By using the talent and skills available in all other arrangements, which are essential to the business of BG Group.
groups and communities in the countries in which it operates, the Group is able to build a strong foundation for the lasting success of its business.
DIRECTORS This is achieved by using appropriate recruitment and selection techniques, Conflicts of interest ensuring equality of employment opportunities and equal access to From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a statutory duty under development opportunities.
the Act to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Group is also committed to providing a work environment free from The Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and harassment and discrimination.
This commitment is included in the Groups potential conflicts where appropriate, if the articles of association contain policy on Human Resources, which is available on the BG Group website.
The Act also allows the articles to contain other The Group remains committed to the full and fair treatment of people with provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of disabilities in relation to job applications, training, promotion and career duty.
At the 2008 annual general meeting, revised Articles that contained development.
Every effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for such provisions were adopted.
those who are unable to continue in their existing job because of disability.
The Group encourages its partners to take a similar approach to these issues Certain safeguards apply when the Directors consider whether to authorise a where Group policies are not able to be implemented directly.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company and a matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, significant number participate in the Groups share plans.
in taking any decision, the Directors must act in a way that they consider, in BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 64 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARING the Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving such THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the Financial Statements in accordance with In exercising the power to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, applicable law and regulations.
the Board has adopted the guidelines issued by the GC100 the Association of General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100 and appropriate Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each procedures have been put in place to ensure that all Directors notify the financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and Company of any situation where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect the parent company Financial Statements in accordance with International interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the Companys Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and as interests.
Once notified, all such matters are considered by the Nominations applied in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
The financial statements Committee and an appropriate recommendation is made to the Board on are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the whether or not to authorise such matters, and, if so, on what terms.
The Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Board believes that these procedures are operating effectively.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the Financial Statements on pages Indemnities and insurance 65 to 128, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies consistently BG Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, The Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Group Executive and all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Company Committee have also been granted a qualifying third-party indemnity, has complied with UK disclosure requirements in this Report in order to under Section 234 of the Act, which remains in force.
Neither the Companys present a consistent picture to all shareholders.
indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event that the indemnified The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps individual is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial Directors borrowing powers position of the Company and of the Group and that enable them to ensure So far as the Companies Acts as defined in section 2 of the Act allow, the that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply Directors can exercise all the powers of the Company to a borrow money, with the Act and as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the b issue debentures and other securities, and c give any form of guarantee or IAS Regulations.
security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are The Directors must limit the Borrowings as defined in the Articles of the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers of control prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have adopted a exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings, so as control framework for application across the Group.
to ensure that the total amount of all Borrowings by the Group outstanding The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have asked the at any time will not exceed twice the Adjusted Total of Capital and Reserves auditors to take any steps and to undertake any inspections they consider as defined in the Articles at such time.
This limit may be exceeded if the to be appropriate to enable them to give their Audit report.
The Directors Companys consent has been given in advance by an ordinary resolution confirm that the Audit Committee continues to review the adequacy of the passed at a general meeting.
system of internal control adopted by the Group.
Statement of disclosure of information to auditors A copy of the Financial Statements of the Company is placed on the BG Group As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the Act, each of the Directors has website.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration approved this Report and confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is of the maintenance of the BG Group website and, accordingly, the auditors no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the in connection with preparing their Audit report of which the Companys Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
auditors are unaware, and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, each of the FINANCIAL Directors, the names and functions of whom are set out on pages 38 to 39, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: Results and dividend For the year ended 31 December 2009, the total profit before tax was the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in 3 862m 2008 5 468m.
A final dividend of 6.73p per ordinary share accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted is proposed 2008 6.55p, making a total dividend for 2009 of 12.35p by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 2008 11.23p.
The results are dealt with more fully in the Financial Statements financial position and profit of the Group: and on pages 65 to 128 and summarised in the Financial review on pages 24 to 29. the management report represented by the Directors Report on pages 2 The trustees of the BG Group New Employees Share Trust, the BG Group plc to 64 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Employee Share Trust and the BG Group Share Incentive Plan have waived their business and the position of the Group, together with a description of right to receive dividends over 13 927, 267 195 and 30 085 shares respectively.
the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
GOING CONCERN By order of the Board The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review Frank Chapman on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity Chief Executive position and borrowing facilities, and the Groups objectives, policies and Ashley Almanza processes for managing capital, are described on pages 24 to 29.
Financial Chief Financial Officer risk management objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in note 10 March 2010 18, page 95.
The Directors consider that the Groups business activities and Registered Office: financial resources ensure it is well placed to manage its business risks 100 Thames Valley Park Drive successfully.
Reading The Directors are satisfied that the Groups and the Companys activities Berkshire RG6 1PT are sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the business is a going Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 concern and the accounts have therefore been prepared on this basis.
