30 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Directors n Member of the Lesley Knox MA u Other directorships include British Assets Trust Audit Committee Chairman PLC, The Crown Agents, John Wood Group PLC l Member of the and Creative Scotland 2009 Ltd. Remuneration Joined the Board 2001: appointed Committee Chairman 2004 hugh Bolland BA hons nlu u Member of the Nomination Chairman of the Nomination Committee Joined the Board 2007 Committee Lesley Knox 55 graduated with an MA in Hugh Bolland 62 graduated with a BA Law from Cambridge, qualified as a lawyer Hons in Economics and Statistics from Exeter and worked in the UK and US.
In 1968 he became an economist she worked as a corporate finance adviser, with the Bank of New South Wales in Australia.
first with Kleinwort Benson, where in 1996 In 1970, he joined Schroder Investment she became a group director.
She was also Management in London.
In 1982, he was Head of Institutional Asset Management at appointed Investment Director and then Kleinwort Benson Investment Management Managing Director of Schroders in Hong Kong which provided investment services to clients and later Chief Executive of Schroders Australia.
After returning to the UK he became Chairman She is the Senior Non-Executive Director of Hays of Schroder Unit Trusts, the Chief Executive and PLC and HMV Group PLC and a Non-Executive latterly Vice Chairman of Schroder Investment Director of Signet Jewelers Limited.
He retired from Schroders Governor of the Museum of London.
He is a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan Non-Executive Directors Indian Investment Trust PLC, Fidelity Asian Values PLC and Dutch listed Eurocommercial Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC Properties N. V. nlu Senior Independent Director John hylands BSc nlu Joined the Board 2002 Joined the Board 22 February 2008 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Christopher Masters 61 took his doctorate John Hylands 57 graduated with a BSc in in Chemistry at Leeds University and worked Mathematics from Glasgow University.
He for Shell in both the UK and the Netherlands.
joined Standard Life in 1979 and qualified as He joined Christian Salvesen as business an actuary in 1982.
His career at Standard development manager in 1979, becoming Life spanned 28 years and included various Director of Planning for its US operation and actuarial, finance and management positions Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He was including serving as Finance Director from 2001 then appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko to 2005.
PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He is He is a member of the Norwich Union With currently Chairman of Sagentia Group PLC and Profits Committee and is a Non-Executive also chairs the Festival City Theatres Trust.
indd 30 20 4 09 12:51:41 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 31 Director of the Board of Ecclesiastical Insurance Executive Directors Group PLC.
He also chairs the trustees of the Katherine Garrett-Cox BA hons ASIP u Standard Life and BOC pension schemes.
Chief Executive Clare Sheikh MA lu Joined the Company as Chief Investment Officer Joined the Board 2005 in 2007: Appointed Chief Executive 29 August 2008 Clare Sheikh 45 graduated with an MA in English from Cambridge.
In 1987 she joined Katherine Garrett-Cox 41 graduated with a BA Boston Consulting Group as a management Hons in History from Durham University.
Her early consultant, working in London and Madrid.
career was spent in US fund management, starting She gained considerable experience in financial with Fidelity Investments and later with Hill Samuel services and was Consumer Marketing Director Asset Management as their Investment Director, for the Prudential before joining Avis Europe Head of American Equities.
After a brief spell In 2000 she joined Aberdeen Asset Management at Transacsys PLC she joined Centrica PLC, becoming an Executive Director in 2001 and Chief becoming Managing Director of AA Financial Executive of their operating subsidiary Aberdeen Services before joining the commercial television Asset Management Limited, whilst serving as Chief network ITV as Marketing Director in 2005.
She left ITV in January 2007 and is now Group In 2004 she became Chief Investment Officer for Strategy, Marketing and Customer Director of Morley Fund Management now Aviva Investors Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
and a Board Director of a number of their subsidiary She is a Non-Executive director of Codan, a companies with specific responsibility for fund major Danish insurance company and a Trustee management teams in London, Dublin, Boston of Breast Cancer Campaign.
Katherine Garrett-Cox is a trustee of The Baring Foundation and was nominated a Young Global Leader of the World Economic Forum in October 2005.
David Deards BA hons ACA Finance Director Joined the Company and the Board 2003 David Deards 49 graduated with a BA Hons in Zoology at Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining Ansbacher & Co in 1987, where he gained considerable experience in corporate finance and banking and investment product development, becoming a director in 1995. report front amends.
