Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 13 UK Mid Cap Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2009 UK Mid Cap Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 26.9% 34.3% 11.2% % of Net Assets: Jan09 5% | Jan08 7% We invest in the UK Mid Cap area because of The UK engineering sector has successfully the good growth prospects we can identify in restructured its operations over the last decade.
companies with strong underlying profitability.
Several companies occupy world leading Share prices of UK Mid Cap companies were positions in their field.
The recent weakness hard hit last year although several industries of sterling has helped those companies which within the mid cap universe have continued to have a bias to export markets.
We expect these deliver the longer term structural growth which companies to benefit further when global we anticipated.
Our relative performance has economies recover and, as a result, continue to benefited from our focus on companies within invest in Spirax Sarco and Charter.
these industries, although valuations have When markets start to look forward to suffered in the general market malaise.
economic recovery we expect companies Our largest industry exposure over the past in the UK Mid Cap area to perform well as year has been to the support services sector.
their earnings prospects are recognised and Companies such as Serco, VT Group and valuations are re-rated.
Babcock International all delivered encouraging FTSE World UK Small-Cap Index until 30 September 2008 results over the period.
and thereafter the FTSE 250 ex IT Index.
The continuing strength of the oil services industry was a notable feature of the first half of the year.
Despite the second half decline in share prices, the longer term dynamics of the service companies such as Wood Group and Petrofac remain intact.
These dynamics are supported by recent announcements from the major oil companies of their intention to maintain capital expenditure programmes for the year ahead.
Top ten investments Name Sector Value m Croda International Chemicals 7.8 Serco Support Services 7.7 Babcock Support Services 7.4 VT Aerospace & Defence 7.1 Dignity General Retailers 6.1 Carillion Support Services 5.3 Aberdeen Asset Management General Financial 5.0 fide La Rue Support Services 5.0 BSS Support Services 4.5 Bellway Household Goods 4.3 report front amends.
indd 13 20 4 09 12:51:33 VT Group PLC 14 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 North America Portfolio performance in Sterling 12 months to Jan 2009 North American FTSE All-Cap North Relative Portfolio American Index Performance 1.2% 16.1% 17.8% % of Net Assets: Jan09 20% | Jan08 16% Strong sector and stock selection, as in 2007, The credit crisis has caused economic activity to resulted in excellent relative performance in our deteriorate rapidly.
We sold out of more cyclically North American portfolio.
exposed stocks such as Terex construction machinery and Vulcan Materials aggregates and The prescience of our low risk strategy of concrete.
We reduced our large position in oil investing in North American equities was and gas stocks as demand fell away, including borne out as the US stock market fell to its the selling of our holding in Exxon Mobil, which lowest levels since 1997.
The stresses in the we believe is likely to find it increasingly difficult financial sector were all too apparent with the to replace reserves in the future.
bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the collapse of Bear Stearns, the bailout of AIG and the sudden The feeling of hope ushered in with the election acquisition of Merrill Lynch by Bank of America.
of President Obama will meet the reality of Our strategy to avoid exposure to US banks US consumers in no hurry to return to their saved us from much of the damage inflicted former spendthrift ways.
Economic recovery is on investors over the year.
We invested in New likely to be difficult and drawn out.
In view of York Community Bank, a conservative niche this uncertain background, we have invested lender, which we expect to benefit greatly from in Canadian gold companies Barrick Gold interest rate reductions.
We retain our belief that investing in strong, well managed companies The year saw extraordinary swings in US will serve us well in difficult times.
markets, as evidenced by the VIX index of volatility which rose to unprecedented levels.
Commodities had an astonishing rise and fall, accentuated by the activities of the hedge fund community.
Investors attempts to avoid any asset class with perceived risk resulted in a dramatic fall in bond yields.
Combined with a zero interest rate policy, this has driven US Treasury Bill yields down to a miserly 0.2%.
Top ten investments Name Sector Value m Abbott Laboratories Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 25.2 New York Community Bancorp Banks 22.8 Philip Morris Tobacco 22.5 Petro-Canada Oil & Gas Producers 19.7 Republic Services Support Services 17.0 Diamond Offshore Oil Equipment, Services & Distribution 16.3 American Tower Technology Hardware & Equipment 16.0 Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 15.4 Verizon Communications Fixed Line Telecommunications 14.6 Canadian Pacific Railway Industrial Transportation 13.3 report front amends.
indd 14 20 4 09 12:51:33 Canadian Pacific Railway Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 15 Europe Portfolio performance in Sterling 12 months to Jan 2009 Europe FTSE All-World Developed Relative Portfolio Europe ex UK Index Performance 17.7% 26.1% 11.3% % of Net Assets: Jan09 9% | Jan08 17% The relative performance of our European higher conviction weightings in companies portfolio compares favourably to that of the such as the Belgian based brewing company, benchmark index over the year.
European equity Anheuser-Busch InBev, added a strong positive markets did not escape the negative trends in contribution to performance.
global equity markets with precipitous declines Relative performance was also helped by our across markets and extreme levels of volatility.
underweight position in the financial sector, The European Central Bank was slower than particularly banks.
This was reinforced by a other policymakers to react to the economic timely sale of UniCredito.
Our move to an downturn as it remained overly concerned with increasingly defensive stance throughout the headline inflation numbers.
Indeed, in July it year also proved beneficial.
Accordingly, we raised interest rates by 0.25%, shortly before sold holdings in industrial cyclicals such as the reports emerged showing that France, Germany truck company MAN and the automotive supply and Italy were on the edge of recession.
We also disposed of some economies of Ireland and Spain have been badly consumer cyclicals such as Richemont and Nokia.
hit as the property bubble has burst.
European Our largest sector overweight position was households have a relatively high savings rate the health care sector.
Stock selection is and are therefore, to a degree, sheltered from fundamental here.
We remain cautious the worst effects of the credit crunch.
The about the longer term headwinds facing the corporate sector has been hard hit in recent pharmaceutical industry with our only holding months by rising costs, lack of credit being in the Swiss company Roche.
We have availability and the high level of the Euro.
The exposure to other areas of the health care strength of the Euro is a particular issue for industry, where we can find more attractive exporting companies.
prospects, such as the kidney dialysis franchise Transactions in our European portfolio remained of the German company Fresenius Medical Care.
at low levels in this difficult environment.
Throughout the year we steadily reduced the number of European holdings and our Top ten investments Name Sector Value m Total Oil & Gas Producers 14.1 Anheuser-Busch InBev Beverages 13.3 Roche Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 12.7 Telefnica Fixed Line Telecommunications 12.4 Nestl Food Producers 11.8 Deutsche Post Industrial Transportation 10.5 RWE Gas, Water & Multiutilities 8.7 Fresenius Health Care Equipment & Services 8.0 Fresenius Medical Care Health Care Equipment & Services 7.8 Colruyt Food & Drug Retailers 7.7 report front amends.
indd 15 20 4 09 12:51:34 Roche 16 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Asia Pacific Portfolio performance in Sterling 12 months to Jan 2009 Asia Pacific FTSE All-Cap Asia Relative Portfolio Pacific ex Japan Index Performance 33.0% 31.3% 2.5% % of Net Assets: Jan09 6% | Jan08 11% Our relative performance suffered in the first be dominant within their market sectors and part of the year due to holdings in property to be good long term investments.
We have and smaller companies.
We made substantial introduced new holdings in the Hong Kong changes to the composition of our portfolio to utility, CLP Holdings, in a Korean tobacco address this, significantly reducing these areas, company, KT&G, and in the Indian company, and performance improved over the latter part ITC.
We have also increased our holdings in of the year.
The Asia Pacific region, and indeed emerging We believe that we are well-positioned in the markets in general, failed to detach from the current difficult environment while watching problems of western economies.
A general out for early signs of a recovery in Asian growth decline in growth is now apparent and Chinas rates.
Asia should remain the region with the slowdown is becoming more severe.
We worlds fastest growth over the next year.
Asia recognised early in the year that Asia was experienced its major financial crisis in the not immune to a significant slowdown in the late 1990s: as a result its governments and US and its other global export markets.
Our companies now stand on a significantly stronger concerns grew and in June we made a strategic financial footing.
decision to reduce our Asia Pacific holdings by one third, realising over 100 million of investments.
We have made investments in sectors which we deem to be more resilient to the global economic slowdown.
In technology, we have invested in Samsung Electronics, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Infosys Tech.
We believe these companies to Top ten investments Name Sector Value m PetroChina Oil & Gas Producers 5.2 Taiwan Semiconductor Technology Hardware & Equipment 4.9 China Mobile HK Mobile Telecommunications 4.9 CLP Holdings Electricity 4.6 BHP Billiton Mining 4.5 Samsung Electronics Technology Hardware & Equipment 4.1 China Life Insurance Life Insurance 4.1 KT & G Tobacco 3.9 Rio Tinto Mining 3.7 NHN Software & Computer Services 3.7 Investments listed are held either directly by the Company or through the Companys investment in the Premier Alliance Trust Asia Pacific Equity Fund.
indd 16 20 4 09 12:51:36 CLP Holdings Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 17 Japan Portfolio performance in Sterling 12 months to Jan 2009 Japan FTSE All-Cap Relative Portfolio Japan Index Performance 3.0% 2.7% 0.3% % of Net Assets: Jan09 1% | Jan08 1% We have maintained our very cautious view Portfolio activity through the year reflected on Japan and thus our very low exposure.
In our cautious approach to the economic local currency terms the TOPIX Index fell by outlook in Japan and to its financial markets.
41%, although for a sterling based investor We reduced the financial weighting from an this was reduced by a sharp rise in the value overweight position to neutral through the of the Yen.
The Yen strengthened against sale of Chiba Bank and by profit taking in all the major currencies, not least by 26% Aeon Mall and Mitsui Real Estate.
Our cyclical against the Euro, one of its major competitors.
exposure was also reduced through the sale This move in the Yen was not spurred by the of Nissan Motor and OSG and by reducing underlying attractions of the currency but by our holding in Komatsu.
The overall effect of the unwinding of the carry trade whereby these transactions was to take the portfolio investors had borrowed large amounts of Yen underweight in industrials.
at a low interest cost to invest in higher yielding We established a new holding in cash rich overseas assets.
The unfolding global financial Fanuc, a manufacturer of robotic technology.
crisis saw investors rush for cover which pushed We also used the cash raised to move to a the Yen sharply higher.
more defensive strategy through an increase Against a backdrop of a moribund domestic in the healthcare company Shionogi and economy, the outlook for Japan weakened as telecommunications company NTT.
exports received a double hit from collapsing global demand and an appreciating currency.
Top ten investments Name Sector Value m East Japan Railway Travel & Leisure 2.1 Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Fixed Line Telecommunications 1.8 Toyota Motor Automobiles & Parts 1.4 Nintendo Leisure Goods 1.3 Takeda Pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 1.2 Seven & I Holdings General Retailers 1.2 Nidec Electronic & Electrical Equipment 1.1 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Banks 1.1 Sundrug Food & Drug Retailers 1.0 Canon Technology Hardware & Equipment 1.0 Investments listed are all held through the Companys investment in the Premier Alliance Trust Japan Equity Fund.
