Cash & Other Net Assets Subsidiaries Preference Shares Other Investments Private Equity Direct Property Global Rest of the World Asia Pacific Ex Japan Japan Europe Large & Mid North America UK Mid UK Large & Mid 8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Investment Review Asset Allocation relative performance arising from this prudent decision.
Good quality companies with sound A key priority is to increase the positive fundamentals had fallen in the general market effect of our asset allocation.
malaise to levels which we believed represented We have sharpened our asset allocation process good medium to long term opportunities.
by establishing a small team of experienced Returns available on cash had diminished.
individuals who focus on risks and returns from Consequently we reinvested 200 million in our portfolio, interacting with our regional our equity portfolio, reducing net cash.
We investment teams to move capital between asset have continued to reinvest more of our cash classes quickly and effectively.
Core equities represented 77% of our net assets While recognising the benefits of broad company at the year end, compared to 92% 12 months diversification within our portfolio, we have ago.
The most important changes in asset continued to focus our equity exposure by allocation implemented throughout the year investing with higher conviction in a reduced were significant disposals across our geographic number of stocks than was historically the case.
We have retained our focus on We have also reduced our dependency on UK developed economies and have benefited from equities.
Core UK equities accounted for 31% our relative lack of exposure to emerging markets of net assets at 31 January 2009 compared which have fared particularly badly.
We have created a global Our decision to reduce our equity holdings equity portfolio which complements our helped to protect us from the worst of the regional portfolios by deploying capital across market declines of the second half of the year.
It draws on the expertise of our We also actively managed our cash balances, regional managers by using their analysis and primarily for security, initially by investing in research to build a high conviction portfolio of high quality money market funds as well as favoured stocks.
We then transferred In last years report, we stated that we had into short term UK Government Treasury Bills, delivered a project to enable us to make use as we sought to hold cash in a risk free form.
During the year By December, our market risk assessment we successfully used three small derivative concluded that such a large cash position was no instruments, with an aggregate exposure of longer appropriate and that we should be taking around 30 million, which partially protected our steps to capitalise on some of the gains in our US portfolio from market risk.
Asset Allocation % of Net Assets 45 40 January 2008 January 2009 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 -5 -10 Source: Alliance Trust report front amends.
indd 8 20 4 09 12:51:31 Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 9 Investment Activity Investment Team The common theme we followed across our Over the year our focus has been on equity portfolio throughout the year was risk strengthening our investment team by reduction through reduced exposure to financial recruiting several highly experienced companies, banks in particular, and divestment professionals.
In addition to members of our of cyclical companies, especially those reliant on portfolio management team, we have also consumer spending.
Our relative performance recruited to enhance our strategy and asset benefited from these moves as both financials allocation function.
Our long term perspective has also encouraged Our focus has been to identify high quality us to maintain our annual graduate recruitment companies with strong balance sheets and programme despite the weak economic experienced management who have led their environment.
By undertaking a structured business through previous economic downturns.
training programme this small group of talented Market leadership, cash flow generation, pricing people can aspire to become key members of power and the ability to grow dividends are our future management team.
among the key business attributes we look for in this uncertain environment.
We have also focused on our strength of conviction in corporate earnings estimates.
Companies announcing disappointing results have seen dramatic falls in their share prices.
The avoidance of such negative surprises has helped the relative performance in our equity portfolios.
This approach meant that the portfolios adopted a large cap bias and were defensively positioned.
We have enhanced the risk management information available to our investment managers over the past year.
These measures are highly useful additional tools but risk management is more than a mathematical exercise: it is not a substitute for the comprehensive due diligence and common sense approach to portfolio management which our investment managers have developed through their many years experience of investing through different market cycles.
Performance of Individual Portfolios for year ending 31 January 2009 Performance Performance Benchmark Relative Portfolio Sterling % Sterling % Return % UK Large 23.3 26.4 4.2 UK Mid 26.9 34.3 11.2 North America 1.2 16.1 17.8 Europe 17.7 26.1 11.3 Asia Pacific ex Japan 33.0 31.3 2.5 Japan 3.0 2.7 0.3 Global 3.7 0.9 2.8 Since inception in December 2008 Source: Alliance Trust report front amends.
