20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 Other Assets Net Cash % of Net Assets: Jan09 11% | Jan08 5% Net cash balances were increased steadily through most of 2008 as we actively reduced our exposure to equity markets.
Having begun the year with net gearing of 4.8%, by the end of July we had increased cash levels to over 10% of net assets.
In an environment of deteriorating global economies and highly volatile stock markets our net cash position peaked at over 21% of net assets in the autumn.
We adopted an active management strategy for our cash balances, focusing on security and liquidity in a period when the banking system was under severe stress.
In addition to placing cash on deposit we invested in a few high quality money market funds.
We subsequently transferred into short-dated UK Treasury Bills, and bank deposits as the quality of assets held by these funds became uncertain.
By the year end we had reduced net cash to over 11% of net assets, having redeployed some of the Companys capital back into global equity markets.
Net cash has been further reduced since the year end.
Fixed Income % of Net Assets: Jan09 1% | Jan08 1% The fixed income portfolio consists of preference shares and bonds issued by companies in the UK banking and insurance sectors.
The capital value of our preference share holdings fell from 22.9 million to 13.7 million over the year as a result of the turmoil in UK financial markets.
Interest income from our preference share portfolio totalled 1.6 million, a healthy income return of over 11% at year end values in an environment of low interest rates.
During the year, we also purchased a high coupon bond issued by Barclays Bank.
Other Assets % of Net Assets: Jan09 4% | Jan08 4% Around 60% of our Other Assets consists of our US mineral rights and our holdings in Ashmore Global Opportunities Fund emerging markets exposure and CCC Global Environmental Opportunities Fund.
Our US mineral rights again produced good revenues for the Company, generating 2.2 million of income against 1.6 million last year, as a result of higher oil prices in the first half of the year and the strength of the US dollar against sterling.
Employing a strict due diligence process, we invest a small proportion of our assets in areas where we may lack direct in house expertise.
These would include areas such as infrastructure funds and environmental funds.
We make these types of investments only when we believe they will add to the returns of the overall portfolio.
