Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 | 21 Subsidiaries % of Net Assets: Jan09 2% | Jan08 2% In addition to our core investment portfolio the During the year, we established a UK asset Company invests in wholly owned subsidiary management business, Alliance Trust Asset businesses to generate long term returns for our Management, which launched in February shareholders comparable to those from other 2009 with two funds.
The strategy for our asset investments we make.
management business is to create products and services for third party investors which Alliance Trust Savings provides share dealing offer direct access to the individual areas of and pension administration services.
It earns investment expertise within the Company.
revenues from fees charged for share dealing, investment administration and from cash on Alliance Trust Equity Partners manages deposit.
In 2008, we delivered a number of investments made by third parties in venture enhancements to our platform including the capital funds set up prior to its acquisition by launch of our fund supermarket, real time the Company in 2007, as well as the private telephone dealing and our shareholder benefits equity exposure of the Company.
The business is programme, where Company shareholders developing relationships with high quality UK and benefit from discounted dealing charges and European private equity managers.
It is making SIPP administration fees.
Client numbers grew commitments to the funds that they manage and to almost 57,000 during the year, a rise of will aim to co-invest alongside them.
17.3%, bolstered by the transfer of over 8,000 savings plans from Allianz Global Investors and Close Investment Management.
Our Asian asset management subsidiary, AT Asset Management Asia-Pacific, was closed at the end of January 2009, following our decision to centralise our investment activities in Scotland.
indd 21 20 4 09 12:51:38 Alliance Trust Marketgait HQ
