12 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2009 UK Large Cap Portfolio performance 12 months to Jan 2009 UK Large Cap Benchmark Relative Portfolio Index Performance 23.3% 26.4% 4.2% % of Net Assets: Jan09 26% | Jan08 40% Good stock selection and sector allocation some cyclically exposed holdings.
Almost 200 enabled our UK Large Cap portfolio to continue million was raised from disposals in the UK its strong relative performance over the year.
The performance of the UK economy typified As the year progressed the threat of serious the global events of last year.
In the first half of economic recession in 2009 increased.
Inflation the year economic policymakers were focused was seen to have peaked and an aggressive on headline inflation rates which constrained series of interest rate cuts was initiated with interest rate policy.
Commodity prices were the UK Base Rate reduced after the year end to strong, with the oil price peaking at a record just 0.5%, the lowest level since the Bank of $147 per barrel in July.
Banks and house England was founded in 1694. builders struggled, their problems exacerbated The current focus of our analysis is to identify by the complete collapse of credit markets.
companies with visible demand, strong balance We disposed of our holding in Royal Bank of sheets, good cash flows and, if possible, a Scotland in March and sold the remainder of strong commitment to dividends.
Many of these our domestic bank holdings during April and companies are in the classically defensive areas May.
The true scale of the problems in the of consumer staples such as Reckitt Benckiser UK banking sector only came to light in the and utilities, Scottish & Southern Energy and autumn and since then bank share prices have Centrica.
We also remain comfortable with plummeted.
Our only UK listed bank holding at our investments in the major oil companies, BP the year end was Standard Chartered, having and Shell, where balance sheets are strong and re-established a position during their December dividend commitment is high.
Our significant underweight In times like these, our experience of previous position in financial companies made a major economic and market cycles encourages us contribution to the relative outperformance of to invest with high conviction in companies the UK Large Cap portfolio.
which we believe are well positioned to perform We started the year with a defensive bias in our through the current economic slowdown.
portfolio and increased this throughout the year FTSE World UK Index until 30 September 2008 and as, in addition to banks, we sold mining and thereafter the FTSE 100 Index.
Top ten investments Name Sector Value m Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 65.4 BP Oil & Gas Producers 57.9 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 45.0 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications 43.4 British American Tobacco Tobacco 34.7 BHP Billiton Mining 27.6 Imperial Tobacco Tobacco 23.1 Reckitt Benckiser Household Goods 20.1 Centrica Gas, Water & Multiutilities 19.0 Unilever Food Producers 18.3 report front amends.
