Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Financial management Strength in our numbers We are in a strong financial position which underpins our client proposition and provides us with an excellent platform to develop our business.
Richard Hextall Group Finance Director Key performance indicators Business focus Net tan Net tang gible asset ible assets s Active fi financial management is fundamental to delivering the fi financial strategy of the business.
We seek to: m m Understand the level of capital required.
2008: 1 2008: 1, 105.9 105.9m m Adjust the level of equity and debt employed in order to enhance returns.
C Cash and investment ash and investments s Optimise investment return for a predetermined level of risk.
Effectively manage our currency exposures.
Shar Shareholders equit eholders equity y 2008: 2.4x s 2008: 2.4x sh ha are reh ho old lders ers equ equiit ty y 2009 highlights Net tangible assets increased to a record 1.4 billion.
1.8 billion boost to gross assets from ACI acquisition.
Capital surplus now greater than 650 million above base capital requirement.
Increased investment risk taken as fi financial crisis eased.
2010 priorities Shift focus from effective cycle management to effective management of risk and capital.
Develop and implement economic capital reporting.
Implement capital allocation as a soft measure into the 2011 business planning cycle.
Optimise investment returns within the risk appetites agreed by the Board.
Shareholder information 201 Understanding and management of our Amlin uses Dynamic Financial Analysis At the end of the year, ACI held net assets capital and financial position has been DFA to model its capital needs.
The of 316.6 million and long term debt of a key area of focus for a number of model forecasts a range of potential 30.0million relative to the local regulatory years.
This has enhanced our return to financial outcomes for each area of our capital requirement of 111.4 million.
shareholders and places us in a good business, incorporating underwriting Webelieve that the current level of position to meet the new Solvency II and investments, running thousands of capitalisin line with what economically requirements for insurance companies simulations through a stochastic model, theCompany requires.
that are effective from October 2012. which is derived from historic and expected In addition to regulatory capital variability in claims.
We have developed As shown below, we have achieved growth requirements, we believe that the Group models for Syndicate 2001, Amlin in gross assets and net assets over the should retain a level of capital sufficient Bermuda and the Group, and are currently past five years.
to allow material growth in the aftermath developing a model for ACI.
of a major insurance disaster and also to Gross and net assets For Syndicate 2001, Amlin uses the respond to other opportunities to enhance Gross assets Net assets modelling to submit an Individual Capital long-term growth, including through m Assessment ICA to Lloyds.
The table below sets out our 6,000 regulatory requirement, sets out the level of capital position at 31 December 2009. capital required in the business to contain 5,000 Amlin capital analysis the risk of insolvency to no greater than a probability of 0.5%.
Lloyds reviews the At 31 At 31 4,000 December December submissions for all syndicates in the market 2009 2008 with the intent of bringing all ICAs to an m m 3,000 equivalent level.
At that point the ICA figure Net tangible assets 1,430.3 1,105.9 is uplifted by 35% to support its financial Subordinated debt 316.4 295.9 2,000 strength rating.
Bank facilities 250.0 250.0 Available capital 1,996.7 1,651.8 For Syndicate 2001, our uplifted ICA for 1,000 Assessed capital 1,341.2 1,059.1 the 2010 underwriting year is below the Surplus 655.5 592.7 minimum ratio of 40% of premium income 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Bank facilities are subject to a number of covenants.
2009: 47% that Lloyds requires and so Assessed capital is managements estimate of capital our capital ratio defaults to that minimum.
required for current trading purposes.
This is a decrease on the prior year Analysing the level of capital required reflecting an increase in the credit provided Understanding the level of capital required Adjusting the capital deployed for the level of reserve margin held.
to operate is critical for our business.
The type of capital deployed to meet the That understanding, and its articulation to short and long-term business needs is Amlin Bermuda has net assets of US$1.6 stakeholders, is important in providing our important in balancing the requirements of billion.
We continue to believe that US$1.0 clients with confidence in our ability to pay various stakeholders.
We have two broad billion is the minimum amount of capital their claims, to our regulators in allowing us choices: the provision of capital through required to trade with our preferred client to trade, to our financing partners in lending equity or debt.
Our strategy in this area base, an amount which exceeds the local to us and to our shareholders in investing in is well established.
When underwriting regulatory capital requirement of US$424.6 the business.
It also allows the business to margins are sufficient to limit the impact million.
The local regulatory requirement is plan for the future and consequently affects of a large catastrophe loss to equity, debt formula based.
However, on an equivalent our strategic direction.
capital will form a greater proportion of the basis to our Lloyds business, including overall capital deployed.
When margins the 35% uplift, the required capital would increase to $514.0 million.
weaken, the proportionate level of debt capital employed will fall back.
61 3,607 785 3,447 936 3,580 1,052 4,176 1,216 5,673 1,593 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Financial management continued In recent years, our debt to total capital Solvency II we expect to hold additional capital strength mean that the Group can ratio has fluctuated in line with this capital to support our medium and readily absorb the losses from the worst of philosophy.
For example, in 2005 debt longer-term growth ambition, in line with our realistic disaster scenarios.
Liquidity risk increased in order to allow us to open Amlin our stated strategy.
We will also look to is discussed further in the risk disclosures to Bermuda and increase our catastrophe buy back shares if we believe it is in our the financial statements on page 155. underwriting risk.
Margins were very strong shareholders interest to do so.
Bank facilities are also available to and we believed that funding growth Dividend per share supplement the working capital strength through debt was appropriate.
A $200 million secured LOC Ordinary dividend per share Special dividend per share the debt ratio has reduced as profits have pence facility is available to Syndicate 2001 increased net assets.
At the end of 2009 25 to fund its US regulatory requirements the net debt to total capital ratio stands and this reduces any potential funding at nil 2008: nil.
pressures at times of catastrophic loss.
8.0 20.0 20 The type of debt utilised is also critical If drawn, security is provided by a fixed 17.0 to ensure that, for example, the needs of charge over a portfolio of assets.
Similarly 15 15.0 regulators and rating agencies for long Amlin Bermuda has a $200 million facility term, unrestricted debt is balanced with secured over three years in order to provide 12.0 short term cost and flexibility.
collateral to US cedants for their regulatory 10.2 10 needs.
At 31 December 2009 Amlin Our subordinated debt is regulatory Bermuda had issued LOCs amounting compliant, longer-term, unsecured and 5 to $124.9 million.
contains no financial covenants that could lead to early forced repayment.
Efficient cash flow management is an Some of the debt is recognised as capital important source of value to an insurer.
In On average we retain premium for around addition we have a 250 million unsecured three years before claims are settled.
Importantly, we have also been able to revolving credit bank facility.
This is On large claims where reinsurance continue to grow the dividend to our currently undrawn.
recoverables are due, we have to pay the shareholders.
The chart above shows the claim before the recovery is made and steady increase in our dividend over time.
Managing equity capital rapid reinsurance response is important.
We intend to grow our dividend per share forshareholders Accordingly, strong credit management consistently over the next few years.
Our We focus our financial management on of premium and reinsurance collectibles current capital strength should allow us delivering a cross-cycle return on equity improves our performance.
to pursue this policy even if earnings are in excess of 15% and achieving profitable affected by significant catastrophe losses.
Credit quality of reinsurance debtors trading through the insurance cycle.
Given the Groups cyclical underwriting approach, Liquidity and cash management we recognise that at certain points this During the year the Groups cash and will lead to the Group holding surplus 15% investments increased by 1,216.8 million to equity capital.
In order to enhance our 4,099.0 million at 31 December 2009.
The return on equity, as actual levels of capital 29% growth follows the acquisition of ACI which exceed our forecast capital requirements, added 1.4 billion and further profitable we will look to return excess capital to trading in 2009.
Cash and investments shareholders in the absence of appropriate now represent a multiple of 2.6 times ways to enhance our long-term potential.
Our commitment to return capital has The strength and liquidity of the balance 54% been clearly demonstrated over recent sheet are critical to our proposition as an years and we have employed a number insurer of choice, providing us with the of different mechanisms to do so, so as ability to respond quickly to claims in the AAA 2% A 54% to appeal across the shareholder base.
In event of a large catastrophic loss.
Amlins AA 29%Other 15% the near term and against the backdrop of investment management approach and 62 n c i o g i t t e e a t s Investment Advisory Panel Investment Management Executive c a s o r a t l l S a t e g d u b k s i R s e M l e a c n t i a o g n e r e c n a n r e v o g D d i www.
Shareholder information 201 For policyholders funds our risk appetite For Group capital, the investment horizon Investment management is relatively low.
They are held in a mixture is longer-term and this allows investment in Our investment process is driven by our of government and non-government more volatile classes such as equities and investment risk appetite.
This is based bonds as well as LIBOR plus funds, property although our underlying criterion on, amongst other things, the outlook for whose underlying assets are bonds and of transparency remains.
The strategic underwriting profits and the strength of our currencies.
The duration of these assets benchmarks for capital are set using a balance sheet, rather than by targeting an 1 references to the duration of the liabilities combination of efficient frontier and value investment return.
We seek to maximise which is reasonably short.
However, we will at risk models.
The table overleaf analyses returns for the level of risk that we are from time to time reduce the duration of the policyholders and capital asset allocation.
This is achieved through: assets if we believe that yields will rise.
Further commentary on our investment Setting appropriate strategic asset Currency and duration performance in 2009 is provided on pages allocations using both qualitative and 68 to 69.
In addition, investment risk is Currency holding Duration quantitative analysis.
analysed within our risk disclosures from Taking short-term tactical asset % Years page 147. allocation positions around the strategic 40 4.0 asset allocations.
35 3.5 Identifying skilled external investment 30 managers to manage the underlying assets.
3.0 25 2.5 Syndicate 2001, Amlin Bermuda and ACI each have their own investment strategies 20 2.0 linked to the different levels of risk each 15 1.5 has decided to take.
The combined strategies are also considered at a Group 10 1.0 level to ensure that the overall investment 5 0.5 risk remains appropriate.
We distinguish between policyholders funds, which are 0 AB C D the premium received and used to meet A: Sterling C: Euro B: US dollar D: Canadian dollar future claims expenses, and capital assets, which support the underwriting business.
Investment management process Governance Boards function Executive Group functions Investments 1 The efficient frontier represents the combinations Risk Assesment and Monitoring of securities that produce the maximum expected return for a given level of risk.
Note: The regional table excludes bond pooled vehicles.
Note: The credit ratings of corporate bonds table includes 102.9 million of government guaranteed corporate bonds.
Similarly, ACI manages In the year to 31 December 2009, the Currency management its Euro trading position and holds its weakening in the US dollar produced The Group reports in Sterling but manages balance sheet in Euros reflecting its foreign exchange losses, before hedging, a Sterling business in the UK, a US dollar European underwriting profile.
At a Group of 98.5 million on the dollar capital business in Bermuda and Euro businesses level, we implement a policy to hedge up investment in Amlin Bermuda.
The hedges in Continental Europe.
to 50% of the US dollar Euro net asset deployed reduced this loss by 31.6 For the UK operations, we sell trading exposure of the Group to Amlin Bermuda million.
For ACI, the movement in the Euro currency profits into Sterling as they and ACI respectively.
The Groups hedges produced foreign exchange gains before crystallise, once we are materially through are effected through the use of derivative hedging of 7.3 million.
Hedges reduced the Atlantic windstorm season.
Amlin contracts and, during the first half of 2009, this gain by 2.3 million.
Bermuda manages its US dollar trading partially through Sterling investments held Gains on derivative investments are taken position and holds its balance sheet by Amlin Bermuda.
to reserves in accordance with the hedging mainly in US dollars reflecting its global 64 64 www www.
Shareholder information 201 rules of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: exposures underwritten, particularly ACI acquisition accounting Recognition and Measurement.
The Sterling as these change through time.
These The Group completed the acquisition of assets, held during the first half of 2009, proposed reserves are compared with an ACI for a consideration of 350.0 million produced a foreign exchange gain of 25.2 actuarial best estimate set by the in-house on 22 July 2009.
ACIs net assets at that million 2008: loss of 41.3 million in the year.
Any required adjustments date amounted to 279.0 million.
However, Despite being part of the hedging strategy to the underwriters proposed reserves are fair value adjustment required under IFRS against the overall Group foreign exchange then made and these are the accounted 3 Business Combinations increased net exposure, this gain is required to be recorded reserves.
Consistency of reserving strength assets at acquisition by 45.8 million to in Amlin Bermudas income statement which is our overall goal.
On an underwriting 324.8 million, generating goodwill of 31.6 is consolidated within the Group income year basis, including unexpired risks, and million including transaction costs of 6.4 statement.
An offsetting foreign exchange before adjustments for further major losses million.
Net assets at fair value include other loss is recognised in the Consolidated which are required for annual accounting intangibles relating to broker relationships of purposes, net reserves for the UK and Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Further detail can be found in Bermudian business remain at least 200 note 38 to the financial statements.
Estimation of outstanding claims million above the actuarial best estimate 2008: at least 200 million.
Share placement reserves On 3 June 2009 the Group placed The estimation of the Groups outstanding For ACI, the local actuarial team 23,502,567 new Ordinary Shares with claims reserves is another important feature produces full data on an accident year institutional investors representing of successful financial management.
Not basis for independent external review.
approximately 5% of Amlins issued only does it have an impact on overall Proposed reserves are generated by local Ordinary Share capital, in order to finance profitability, but it also impacts investment management according to a set formulaic part of the consideration for the acquisition mix as different approaches are taken for process for the earning of premiums of ACI.
The net placing proceeds were capital and policyholders funds.
December 2009 net claims reserves totalled external review involves production of 2,010.3 million 2008: 1,332.0 million.
an independent best estimate by class Insurance is an inherently uncertain of business for comparison with the business and much of Amlins business is proposed carried reserve.
The full reserving large commercial insurance or reinsurance submission, including the external report, which can be volatile and difficult to is reviewed separately by the Group estimate ultimate claims levels for.
subjectivities which must be considered We estimate that the Group as a whole when assessing the level of outstanding holds reserves on an accident year basis liabilities include the risk profile of an of at least 200 million in excess of a strict insurance policy, class of business, 50:50 actuarial best estimate.
timeliness of notification of claims, validity of claims made against a policy and validity Pension obligations of the quantum of the claim.
At any time The Group participates in a number of there are a range of possible outcomes at pension schemes, including defined which the claims reserves could ultimately benefit, defined contribution and personal settle.
As time passes the uncertainty pension schemes.
At 31 December 2009, a surrounding likely claims settlement retirement benefit obligation of 24.5 million reduces and the level of caution is reduced.
was recognised in the balance sheet 2008: 4.0 million.
Actuarial gains and losses are Given this uncertainty we adopt a prudent recognised in the Consolidated Statement approach to the assessment of liabilities.
of Comprehensive Income in accordance Our underwriting teams, in the UK and with IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The Group Bermuda, are responsible for proposing the recognised a pension charge to the income level of reserves to be set in their business statement amounting to 6.4 million in the units.
We believe that this ensures that they year 2008: 1.1 million.
Note 28 to the are accountable for the evaluation and uses financial statements provides further detail.
their detailed knowledge of the underlying 65 65
