Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin UK Investing for growth The UK commercial market began to stabilise in 2009 and we expect an upturn in the market in 2010.
We are well placed to take advantage of the improved rating environment, having adopted a disciplined approach during challenging markets and made signi cant investment in our business.
Brian Carpenter Underwriting Director, Amlin UK Key performance indicators Business focus G Gr ross written pr oss written premiu emium m Amlin UK writes commercial motor, liability and property business in the UK domestic market.
Specialist underwriting expertise, a willingness to consider unusual risks and the ability to create and price non-conventional programmes support our highly 2008: 2008: 152.8 152.8m m selective and fl exible underwriting approach.
C Combined rati ombined ratio o Business is underwritten through a variety of distribution channels supporting both retail and wholesale brokers.
Our ability to adapt our products and services to meet the differing needs of a wide range of intermediaries is a key differentiator from our larger competitors.
2008: 79 2008: 79% % A Average rate verage rate iincr ncreas ease e 2009 highlights 2008: 2.2 2008: 2.2% % rate r rate reductio eduction n Gross written premium of 190.9 million, an increase of 25% on prior year, driven R Retent etentiion rat on ratio io by growth in fl fleet motor business.
Underlying margins across the market remain thin but improvements seen in fl fleet motor.
2008: 79 2008: 79% % Recruitment of a leading property underwriting team.
Strategic investments made in 2008 beginning to generate return.
Continued positioning of the business for growth through investments in resource and acquisitions.
2010 priorities Grow core business lines as market conditions improve.
Further develop property underwriting book.
Complete the integration of Locktons Insolvency Risk Services business.
Develop client service performance metrics and analysis.
Implementation of the liability product on Genus underwriting system.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin UK underwrites commercial Operating structure insurance business in the UK domestic market.
We are a leader in fleet motor business and have an established position Amlin UK in a full range of other commercial classes.
Underwriting Director: Brian Carpenter The business is separated into five units General Manager: according to the insurance classes written.
Andrew Churchill The division is led by Brian Carpenter, Sales and Marketing supported by underwriting and operational Director: management.
The management team is David Overall stable and has significant experience in its respective markets.
Headcount Fleet Other Liability Professional Financial Property & is high relative to other divisions focused Motor Indemnity Institutions Commercial on specialty business due to the high Combined volume, relatively low premium nature of UK commercial business.
GWP: 92.3m GWP: 31.3m GWP: 26.5m GWP: 5.4m GWP: 35.4m Market overview The UK insurance market is one of the largest in the world, ranked third by premium 1 in 2008.
It is a mature and sophisticated Product range Gross written premium by class market with a wide range of distribution, Amlin UKs portfolio consists of commercial products and carriers.
Total net premium motor, liability and property business, with 3% for UK non-life insurance in 2008 was a small amount of personal lines business, 1 6% 59.1billion, with the top ten general mainly in selected niche areas such as high insurance groups, including companies 10% net worth property.
Amlin UK generally writes suchas RSA, Aviva and Axa, accounting 100% of each business risk.
2 for70% of the non-life business written.
We focus on using the experience and 48% 14% Distribution for commercial insurance in the technical expertise of our underwriters to UK market is primarily through brokers.
The target non-standard and potentially higher majority of Amlin UKs business is sourced margin business such as large or complex through Lloyds brokers and regional brokers.
We work closely with brokers to create 19% niche products which address specific An important trend in the market in recent industry or client needs across a wide years has been rapid consolidation among range of business types and sectors.
Our insurance brokers, with some of the larger Fleet other motor 48% Employers liability 10% willingness to consider unusual risks and our broker networks growing substantially Property and commercial 19% Public products liability 6% ability to create and price non-conventional through acquisitions.
Broker consolidation Professional indemnity 14% Financial institutions 3% programmes give us an advantage against within the market continued during 2009, larger competitors with less flexibility.
although the impact of the credit crunch We also offer various insurance package and economic slowdown on the largest products which combine motor, property or consolidators reduced their appetite and liability coverage according to the particular ability to make further acquisitions.
While competing with many traditional Under the Summit at Lloyds brand we insurers, Amlin UK is a Lloyds business and underwrite a wide range of commercial is one of Lloyds leading UK commercial fleet motor fleet classes, including coach, motor underwriters.
haulage, commercial vehicle and company executive fleets.
1 Source: Swiss Re World Insurance in 2008 2 Source: Association of British Insurers UK Insurance Key Facts September 2009 33 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin UK continued Employers liability insurance protects strategic investments made in independent Business retention ratios employers against accident or injury to brokers Miles Smith and TL Dallas during % employees.
For example, Amlin benefited from the 100 accident or injury occurring to clients, transfer of a substantial fleet motor portfolio customers or other third parties as a result when a major competitor withdrew from its 84 of contact with the insureds personnel, Miles Smith facility.
We also achieved the 80 79 78 property or products.
successful conversion of the majority of the 71 68 renewal rights to the general commercial Professional indemnity policies cover 60 motor fleet insurance portfolio acquired liabilities that may arise from services from HCC in August 2008.
Other initiatives provided by the assured, for example as included new facilities to enable the easy 40 a result of negligence or error, which may placement of small higher margin accounts lead to financial or physical loss.
This and new niche products, such as Amlins includes services from architects, surveyors, 20 Route 2 coach facility.
advertising firms and medical professionals.
A small financial institutions account is With further growth anticipated in fleet motor 0 also written covering fidelity, professional 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 as market conditions improve, we invested indemnity and directors and officers liability in additional claims resource and opened a for companies providing financial services.
motor claims unit in Norwich.
However, we do not underwrite institutions In May we recruited a team of five We recognise the importance of providing with material US exposures.
underwriters with significant expertise in UK high quality claims management and we UK property covers buildings and contents commercial property owners business.
The have our own in house claims and legal against perils such as fire, theft and flood.
team has been merged with Amlins existing team, and specialist teams dealing with property teams in Chelmsford and Norwich.
This combination of a high Client service While current market conditions in the standard of claims service and specialist Our commitment to high quality client service property sector remain competitive, the team expertise is a valuable part of Amlin UKs is illustrated in the continuity of our broker is well positioned to expand with a future business proposition.
This is evidenced relationships and business retention ratios, improvement in the trading environment.
by the fact that in 2009 we gained several as shown in the adjacent chart.
major new employers liability accounts A key factor for further developing Amlin on the strength of our service and claims Gross written premium by broker UKs market penetration, particularly in the capabilities in addition to competitive pricing.
UK property market, is our profile among 2007 2008 2009 We continued to invest in our claims and regional and smaller brokers and their % customer service capabilities during the year.
While Amlin is well known to the 50 major Lloyds brokers operating in the UK Amlin UK also benefits from Amlins strong commercial property market, the Amlin Insurance Financial Strength ratings which 40 brand is less established amongst UK support client confidence in our ability to regional brokers and their clients.
To this manage the risks and support their claims.
end we continued to invest in our marketing 30 capability and strengthened our broker base, Business development During 2009, we maintained a disciplined building new relationships with a number underwriting approach amid a challenging of specialist brokers, as well as further 20 rating environment for much of the portfolio.
developing relationships with regional and However, we also continued to position the national brokers.
Amlins new European 10 rugby sponsorship programme will also business for growth as and when market conditions become more favourable.
enhance Amlin UKs profile in the UK market.
0 A B C D E We continue to look for additional products Opportunities to expand the fleet motor A: Thompson Heath & Bond 10% D: Next 7 29% account became more prevalent as pricing that can attract new business and offer B: Miles Smith 8% E: Remainder 45% maintained its upward trend through the opportunities for cross selling to existing C: Willis 8% year and we began to benefit from the clients.
For example, in January 2010 we 34 www.
Shareholder information 201 completed the acquisition of Locktons Fleet motor business contributed 82.8 professional indemnity rates fell by 1.3% Insolvency Risk Services business.
This is million to gross written premium 2008: 60.1 and 0.5% respectively.
However, in all these a sector experiencing rapid growth in the million.
This includes 7.0 million of premium classes this represented an improvement current economic climate and the acquisition generated from the renewal rights to the on the prior year and signs now exist that of a book of business already substantially commercial motor account of HCC.
the appetite of major insurers for new underwritten by Amlin, together with a and renewal business is becoming more As anticipated, the fleet motor market specialist team of some 40 people, will selective, particularly on higher risk and maintained the gradual improvement first further enhance our product offering in this poorly performing business.
seen in the latter part of 2008, with an area.
The business will now trade as AUA upward trend in pricing throughout 2009 Although typically an economic downturn Insolvency Risk Services Ltd. giving an overall rate increase for the year can cause an increase in claims frequency, Another strategic priority was the of 4.9%.
Importantly, there was a continued particularly in classes such as motor, implementation of the Genus underwriting increase in the number of quotations and in property and liability, the expected trends system.
The first phase was rolled out in the overall conversion ratio.
However, we continue 2009 for fleet motor business and further to anticipate an upward trend in  underwriting results for a development of the system for liability related claims across the market during 2010 number of competitors led to an easing classes was carried out in preparation and we are actively monitoring claims activity in competition in the fleet market and for implementation in early 2010.
Genus for signs of increased fraud.
prompted withdrawals from the sector.
streamlines administrative processes as well For example, in August 2009, HSBC, a The combined ratio of 81% is a good result as delivering better management information substantial competitor in the market, ceased given the continued tough trading conditions across all stages of the insurance transaction underwriting its fleet motor account.
The claims ratio was 53% from quote to final policy, which will facilitate developments have created opportunities 2008: 48%, with releases from reserves cross-selling and overall marketing.
for Amlin to gain market share at acceptable amounting to 38.7 million 2008: 34.4 margins.
We expect this trend to continue million.
We have reviewed our reserving Trading environment and in 2010. approach to UK commercial claims, where underwriting performance it has become evident that our claims case Product liability rates on Amlins book also After a sustained period of difficult market reserves, in aggregate, have been more conditions, parts of the UK commercial increased by 3.2%, reversing the downward robust than previously estimated and a market began to show signs of stabilising in trend seen in 2008. trend of steady improvement has been 2009.
Current rating trends are illustrated in Elsewhere, the UK commercial market established.
As such, we have adjusted our the table below.
remained generally competitive, reflecting approach to fleet motor and liability classes, Amlin UK generated gross written premium ample capacity and continued competition which has generated a release of 16.0 of 190.9 million in 2009, an increase of for market share among the larger insurers.
The expense ratio of 28% 2008: 25% on the prior year 2008: 152.8 million.
Property rates on Amlins portfolio declined 31% reflects the spread of core overheads Average renewal rate increases were 2.0%.
by 2.1% while employers liability and across a greater premium base.
