Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin Corporate Insurance Regional strength The strength of ACIs position in the Benelux market has been enhanced by our new parent and, with integration progressing well, we are looking forward to developing the many opportunities available to our business.
Patrick Coene Chief Executive, Amlin Corporate Insurance Key performance indicators Business focus G Gr ross written pr oss written premiu emium m Based in the Benelux region, ACI is focused on medium sized corporate risks, primarily domestic companies with international activities.
It is a long established local commercial insurer with a lead position in its key markets and long-standing relationships with its main producing brokers and clients.
since acquisition since acquisition ACI has market leading technical expertise which enables it to provide clients with prevention and risk management services as well as core insurance cover.
It has a well-established programme of investment in training and retention of C Combined rati ombined ratio o high quality skilled staff, a competitive advantage in a market environment where qualifi ed people are scarce.
since ac since acq quisition uisition 2009 highlights Acquisition by Amlin completed on 22 July.
Good progress with initial integration.
Transfer of majority of Belgian staff from Fortis to ACI.
New Platform Replacement Programme resourced and underway.
Rets Marine agency contract regained.
ACI investment portfolio brought into line with Amlins risk driven investment strategy.
2010 priorities Complete re-underwriting of marine portfolio.
Implement key elements of Amlins underwriting approach, including line guide controls, monitoring and reporting.
Align business planning and reporting processes.
Agree and implement remuneration and benefi ts framework.
Meet Platform Replacement Programme milestones.
Prepare for Solvency II as part of the Amlin Group Solvency II programme.
Note: Data for average renewal rates and business retention is not currently available.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin Corporate Insurance ACI Operating structure is a leading provider of corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Capitalised at Amlin Corporate 317 million, it operates as a separate Insurance division of the Amlin Group.
Chief Executive: Patrick Coene ACI was acquired by Amlin from the Dutch Chief Financial Officer: State on 22 July 2009.
Prior to nationalisation Yves Warlop by the Dutch State in October 2008, ACI was part of the Fortis Group, created by the merger of Fortis Industrial and AmevInterlloyd in 1999.
ACI is led by Patrick Coene supported by his executive team.
Marine Netherlands Belgium Historically the business has been managed Executive Vice President: Executive Vice President: Executive Vice President: Jaap Gispen Michiel Vervliet Philippe van Oosterzee along geographical lines, with different management in the Netherlands and GWP: 358.5m GWP: 184.9m GWP: 165.0m Belgium.
This is now evolving to a more Note: Represents full year gross written premium.
product-focused management structure across the Benelux region.
ACIs competitors in the Benelux markets A long established insurer of the Belgian Market overview include international insurers such as industrial sector, ACI has a strong position The Benelux insurance markets are mature Allianz, Axa, HDI Gerling, ACE and Zurich in the Belgian property insurance market markets with a high degree of broker 2 as well as a number of leading local with a market share of approximately 16%.
The Netherlands and Belgium insurers such as Delta Lloyd, ASR and In the Netherlands, ACI is a major property are the 14th and 16th largest markets in the AG Insurance.
insurer in the co-insurance market with a world in terms of non-life premium income 4 market share of approximately 13%.
with 2008 non-life premiums of 10.7 Product range 1 2. billion and 9.8 billion respectively Gross written premium by class ACI is the market leader in marine business The Dutch corporate insurance market in the region, with an estimated share is divided into the co-insurance Beurs of written premium of over 40% in the 3% 3 market and the provincial market.
ACI Netherlands and 30% in Belgium.
This 9% operates mainly in the co-insurance reflects ACIs long-standing position in market, which is focused on industrial and the market and its recognised expertise in 9% commercial risks and accounts for much of marine classes, as well as its substantial the premium volume in ACIs Dutch marine, marine capacity.
Distribution in ACIs Dutch marine account is well 15% this segment of the market is via brokers, diversified with cargo as the largest class at who issue policies, collect premium and 64% approximately 40%, followed by ocean hull handle claims on behalf of insurers.
ACI has The Belgian commercial insurance market a market leading position in cargo liability.
also relies on brokers for distribution, but The Dutch hull account is focused on functions such as claims handling are not specialised risks such as dredging, lifting Marine 64% Fleet other motor 9% often delegated to brokers or agents.
Property 15% Captives 3% Liability 9% The Benelux market includes the important In Belgium cargo cover represents regional marine insurance centres of approximately 84% of marine premium, Rotterdam and Antwerp.
In both the reflecting ACIs market leading expertise in The property portfolio in Belgium is focused Netherlands and Belgium, ACI is the largest this area.
Other classes include inland and on industrial risk whereas the Dutch 3 marine underwriter by premium.
portfolio insures warehouses, apartment 1 3 4 Source: AXCO Insurance Market Overview 2008.
Source: IUMI, BVT, Assurantie Magazine Source: Vereniging Nederlandse Assurantie Beurs 2 11 December 2009.
Source: Assuralia Assurinfo Nr 33, 22 October 2009.
43 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin Corporate Insurance continued buildings and municipalities.
ACIs product with brokers and clients was essential.
Process and change management section offering includes cover for fire, business As demonstrated by the high level of client of this Report on page 50. interruption, machinery breakdown and retention throughout the process, the close As highlighted at the time of the construction all risk CAR.
and constructive relationships we have built acquisition, part of ACIs marine portfolio with brokers and agents form a valuable ACI has a market share of approximately had recently been generating poor results aspect of ACIs competitive strength in the 1 20% in the Dutch co-insurance liability and following rapid growth in 2007 and 2008.
Coverage This had already been recognised by ACI in professional liability includes notaries, and a re-underwriting programme has Gross written premium by broker accountants and lawyers.
Following 2007 2008 2009 the acquisition, this programme has been ACI also holds a key position in the Belgian % supported by Amlin expertise and resource commercial liability market and is the 40 and is making good progress.
leading underwriter of medical liability 35 cover, with an estimated overall share of ACIs marine underwriting organisation 1 the liability market of approximately 10%.
was reviewed during the second half of 30 the year and is now being restructured to ACIs Dutch motor fleet account is focused reflect Amlins class underwriter structure 25 on lease and rental business in the nonand to facilitate the adoption of Amlins Beurs market, written direct and through 20 underwriting approach.
In Belgium, ACIs fleet business introduced include peer review of business 15 is predominantly cars at approximately underwritten and better collection and 65% of premium, with the remainder 10 collation of pricing information.
equally divided between vans and trucks.
5 Trading environment and ACI Belgium has a further business line providing specialist services including underwriting performance A B C D E ACIs key markets in both the Netherlands fronting for the captive reinsurance A: Aon Benfield 27% D: Next 7 15% B: Marsh 13% E: Remainder 38% and Belgium were competitive during 2009. companies of large clients, typically C: Willis 7% As well as the impact of lower economic major industrial businesses.
As well as underwriting a small portion of the risk, activity on turnover-related policies such as liability, business interruption and ACI provides administrative and start-up Business development CAR, the effect of the global economic services on a fee basis.
The principal focus for ACI following recession was also evident in reduced its acquisition has been managing the In 2008 ACI established a French office overall demand for cover in these and separation from the Fortis Group and in Paris to target French commercial lines other classes, which increased competition the integration with Amlin, together business.
This operation will be merged with for the remaining business.
The property withaddressing known issues in parts Anglo French Underwriters during 2010. market in both territories also remained ofthe marine underwriting portfolio.
Client service A priority has been on maintaining ACI is recognised in the market for its Fleet motor demand was affected by standards of client service, which is high level of technical expertise and sharp declines in new vehicle registrations reflected in the high level of client retention solution oriented approach.
We offer a during the year in both the Netherlands during 2009.
The acquisition was well and Belgium.
With capacity abundant in comprehensive service to clients which received by ACIs brokers and clients includes risk prevention advice as well as many commercial lines, market conditions and very little business was lost, with the structuring appropriate insurance cover.
A relatively benign loss exception of approximately 3.8 million experience across the market during of Fortis-linked premium.
An indication of ACI benefits from long-standing the year, with little direct impact from the markets positive reaction to Amlins relationships with the major international the recession on claims frequency, also acquisition of ACI was the return to ACI of brokers operating in the Benelux region as contributed to the competitive environment.
the Rets Marine agency account at the well as with a broad range of local brokers end of 2009, accounting for 60 million of The marine market was also affected by and agents.
We are focused on actively gross written premium, which had been lost managing our broker relationships through lower economic activity, but rating trends to a competitor following nationalisation.
regular meetings and other initiatives.
Capacity was stable but was particularly important during the period The disentanglement and integration market conditions remained soft in most of uncertainty prior to ACIs acquisition by process, together with progress made to areas.
Premium volume was significantly reduced by lower activity in builders risk Amlin, when continuous communication date, is discussed in more detail in the 1 Source: ACI management estimate.
Shareholder information 201 and general cargo, but recent entrants acquisition.
The result post acquisition is continued to compete for market share.
improved by 4.5% through the reversal of an unexpired risk provision held at In cargo liability, rates increased, but this acquisition for the loss making marine was offset by sharp reductions in turnover.
The claims ratio of 72% reflects Ocean hull also presented a mixed picture a good underwriting performance for with significant declines in insured values property and liability offset by poor marine and freight activity offset by higher insured performance.
Reserve releases since values for new vessels in the oil and gas acquisition totalled 19.0 million reflecting industry and increased rates, so that releases of risk margins through time.
market premium volume increased during the year.
The companys expense ratio is 27% for the full year 2008: 24% and 24% Inland hull was adversely affected by lower in the period since acquisition.
These freight rates and hull values as a result of ratios exclude costs relating to ACI overcapacity among inland barges, but disentanglement costs and investment this market segment remained stable with management fees.
The commodities market saw deteriorating losses, partly reflecting a recession-related increase in claims, but market conditions remained competitive.
ACI generated 708.4 million of gross written premium in 2009, a decrease of 7.1% relative to the prior year.
The reduction reflects the impact of lower economic activity on premium volumes as well as the deliberate non-renewal of some marine business as part of the re-underwriting process.
236.1 million of gross written premium was written in the period since acquisition.
The contribution to Group underwriting profit in 2009 was 11.2 million.
ACI delivered a combined ratio of 102% for the full year 2008: 102% and 96% since 45
