Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Senior executive management Experienced leadership Kevin Allchorne ofLeuven and holds a PhD in Engineering Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Institute, Economic Systems from Stanford University.
Associate Member oftheRoyal Aeronautical Head of After serving as an economist during his Society and a member of the Lloyds Market Reinsurance, Amlin military service, he worked for 9 years in Association Aviation Committee.
London management consultancy with DRI Europe Experience Kevin joined Amlin in and McKinsey.
He joined the P&C division Amlin: 12 years, Lloyds market: 42 years 1992 after graduating ofAG 1824 now AG Insurance in 1992 where from Liverpool University in Economics and Mark Farrow he held several management functions Maths.
He began work on both the Direct Human Resources including head of motor insurance business.
Property and Casualty accounts before Director In 1999 he joined the Management Team moving across to the treaty account to ofFortis Corporate Insurance with Mark joined Amlin underwrite the Risk Excess of Loss and the responsibilities over time including Fleet, in2001, having North American Catastrophe XL classes of previously served Property, IT and country management business in 1996. asHR Director with AXA PPP Healthcare.
In 2003 he was appointed CEO Kevin assumed responsibility for Amlins There he worked on major re-structuring ofFortis Corporate Insurance now Amlin reinsurance classes in February 2008 with programmes to prepare the PPP Healthcare Corporate Insurance, a function he still business for sale and subsequently managed his appointment confirmed in June 2008. holdstoday.
two integration programmes following the Kevin is a member of the Lloyds Non-Marine Patrick is a member of the Board of DAP acquisitions by Guardian Royal Exchange business panel.
Dutch Aviation Pool and of the Atoompool 1998 and AXA 1999.
Prior to AXA PPP Experience: Dutch Nuclear Pool.
Healthcare he worked in a variety of Amlin: 17 years, Lloyds market: 17 years Experience: seniorHR and Personnel roles with Amlin: First year, Insurance: 18 years ICIandKimberly-Clark.
Simon Beale Underwriting Mark is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Duncan Dale ofPersonnel & Development.
Director, Amlin Head of Property London Experience & Casualty, Amlin Amlin: 8 years, Industry: 21 years Simon was London appointed Duncan leads the Andrew Grant Underwriting Director in June 2008.
His Property & Casualty Group Operations background is as a specialist Marine Hull business unit.
He started his career in the officer Underwriter since joining Lloyds in 1984 insurance industry in 1982 in the London Andrew graduated in and he is a recognised international leader in company reinsurance sector before entering Monetary Economics this field.
He joined Amlin in 1994 as Marine Lloyds in 1989 and joining Amlin in 1994. from LSE in 1990 Hull Leading Class Underwriter and headed and joined Accenture, where he worked with Duncan is an Associate of the Chartered Amlins Marine business from 2001 to 2009. clients in insurance and retail banking, Insurance Institute, Chairman of the LMA US focusing on operational effectiveness and Simon is a previous chairman of both Londons Casualty Reinsurance Business Panel and a platform improvement.
Joint Hull Committee and the Ocean Hull member of the LMA Non-Marine Committee.
Committee of the International Union of Marine In 1997 Andrew joined UBS where he helped Experience: Insurance.
He has also represented the London lead the global integration of UBS and SBC, Amlin: 15 years, Lloyds market: 27 years market on IUMIs Executive Committee and managed the Euro transition and subsequent Rod Dampier been an elected member of Lloyds Market business transformation of its global foreign Head of Aviation, exchange and short term rates business, Association Marine Committee.
He is currently a and the development ofitsWealth Amlin London co-opted member of the LMA Management proposition andoperations.
Rod began his From 2005-2007, he was a business unit underwriting career Experience: Managing Director and Chief Operating with Royal Insurance Amlin: 15 years, Lloyds market: 25 years Officer.
Prior to joining Amlin in June 2009, marine department in 1967, moving to the Patrick Coene Andrew worked for RBS, where he aviation department in 1971.
He then joined Chief Executive developed and implemented the Aviation and General in 1985, which merged separationand integration strategy officer, Amlin with most other UK composite insurer aviation fortheRBS share of ABN AMRO.
Corporate departments to form British Aviation Insurance Insurance Experience Group now Global Aerospace in1991.
Rod Amlin: First year, Financial services: 20 years Patrick graduated joined Amlin in 1997, as the Divisional Underwriter for the Aviation Division.
Rod is a asCommercial Engineer at the University 76 www.
Shareholder information 201 David Harris insurance practice of KPMG Peat Marwick.
He companies, whilst completing an Executive joined Alea in 1999 and, from 2004 onwards, MBA at Cranfield University School of Managing Director, he was Chief Financial Officer and Head of Management.
Jayne is a Member of the UK Amlin Underwriting the Bermuda operations of Alea Bermuda Society of Investment Professionals, a Fellow Limited Ltd and Alea Group Holdings Bermuda Ltd. of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and David graduated Stuart was appointed to his current position an Associate of the Institute of Chartered in law and joined in 2006, where he is responsible for all nonSecretaries andAdministrators.
Royal Insurance in 1985 where he became underwriting activities for Amlin Bermuda.
Experience the Multinational Claims Manager.
Following Experience Amlin: 8 years, Investments: 25 years the merger between Royal and Sun Alliance, Amlin: 4 years, Insurance: 15 years he became the Operations Manager for the Andrew Wright London Market Division of RSA, managing Steve McMurray Head of Marine, Human Resources, Information Technology, Finance Director, Amlin London Marketing and Divisional Expenses.
He Amlin Underwriting Andrew began his joined AXA Insurance in 2000 and became Limited career working their UK Claims Director and moved to Amlin for the Lloyds Steve joined Amlinas in 2003 as Operations Director.
He was Corporation in 1987 before joining a Head of Group promoted to Chief Operating Officer in 2007 specialist bloodstock broker, Hall Ropner, Finance in 2007.
Promoted to current role in and to his current role in November 2008. in 1988.
He joined Amlin in 1989 working November 2008.
Member of Lloyds Finance on both the bloodstock and marine energy David plays an active role in London market Committee.
Achartered accountant, Steve accounts as an underwriting assistant.
Andrew reform, serving on various LMA and Lloyds began his career with became assistant underwriter on both classes committees.
 where he became a in 1993 before assuming the role of class Experience senior manager specialising inthe banking underwriter in 1998, again in both classes.
In Amlin: 7 years, Insurance: 26 years and capital markets sector.
Moved to Amlin 2003 Andrew relinquished the bloodstock role from the Bank of England, where he spent to focus solely on the Marine energy account.
James Illingworth three years as Chief FinancialAccountant.
Experience Chief Risk officer Experience Amlin: 21 years, Insurance: 22 years James spent Amlin: 3 years, Financial services: 14 years eight years as a Rob Wyatt Franois reinsurance broker Underwriting Martinache with Greig Fester Director, Amlin Ltd before joining Stace Barr Underwriting Chairman, Bermuda Anglo French Agencies, and two years later becoming Rob has worked in Underwriters Managing Director of the new advisory the Lloyds market company, Stace Barr Insurance Capital.
He began his career at Guy He became a Director of Angerstein his insurance career in 1981 at CECAR, a Carpenter as a North American Treaty Broker Underwriting Trust plc in 1997 and, following subsidiary of insurance broker Marsh.
In 1983 and was seconded to the Firemans Fund in its merger with the Murray Lawrence Group, he moved to Stewart Wrightson as a Director, San Francisco in 1987 8.
His underwriting before joining Anglo French Underwriters in career began in 1989 when he joined the was Chairman of Amlin Underwriting Ltd Hardy Syndicate, moving to Harvey Bowring 1987 as senior Director.
In1990, Franois from July 1999 to April 2000.
James was & Others Syndicate 362 in 1992.
In 1996 was appointed Chairman of AFU.
elected to Lloyds Underwriting Agents he moved to Bermuda, with Terra Nova, as Association in July 2000 and was Chairman Experience Senior Vice President of Underwriting before of the LMA Risk Management Committee Amlin: 2 years, Insurance: 29 years returning to Harvey Bowring and Amlin in 2000 in2009.
Jayne Styles as an international catastrophe underwriter.
Experience Chief Investment In 2001 Rob was appointed the leading class Amlin: 19 years, Insurance: 27 years officer underwriter for Amlins direct and facultative property account.
Hetransferred to Amlin Stuart MacKellar Jayne was previously Bermuda in April 2008 and was appointed Managing Director, Head of International Underwriting Director in August 2008.
Amlin Bermuda Equities at Halifax Experience Fund Management Limited, where she Stuart trained Amlin: 13 years, Insurance: 28 years established and ran a wide range of portfolios.
as a chartered For two years prior to joining Amlin, Jayne accountant with worked as an independent management BDO Stoy Hayward in London before moving consultant advising a number of blue chip to Bermuda in 1995 as a senior auditor in the 77
