Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Our strategy explained Delivering long-term value to our shareholders Our strategy Our goal Our strategy is centred on delivering long-term value to our shareholders.
Shareholder value Financial targets We focus on our fi financial targets to measure success 15% cross-cycle return in achieving our goal.
on equity Pro table trading throughout the insurance cycle Vision We employ a Vision to give strategic focus and drive operational performance.
Global reference point for quality in our markets In 2004, we established our Vision to be the global reference point for quality in our markets.
Strategic priorities 1 2 3 4 Our Vision is founded upon four Pro t focused Improved First class Effective risk strategic priorities.
These are the underwriting understanding client service and capital things we believe we need to excellence of client needs standards management deliver to be successful.
and market trends Business focus We focus on managing operations in line with Process Risk Financial our strategic priorities Underwriting Clients and change People management management across all major management disciplines.
Shareholder information 201 Successful five year delivery We believe that over the last five years we have made considerable strategic progress.
Financially, we have delivered a weighted average return on equity of 29.1% and cumulative pro t after tax of 627.1 million in excess of target as shown below.
Consequently our total shareholder return has been very strong and at 337% it represents one of the highest in the global non-life insurance industry.
We believe that we have achieved our Vision in many respects, particularly in the London insurance and reinsurance market.
As we grow internationally we aim to extend the perception of Amlin as the global reference point for quality in our markets.
Key measures of success and steps taken to attain our Vision are highlighted below.
Improved understanding of client needs and market trends Continued low combined ratio, despite major loss activity.
Major hurricane losses contained with no material reserve creep.
Superior Insurance Financial Strength Ratings assigned to Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda.
Five year average claims ratio more than 11% better than peer average.
Start up of Amlin Bermuda in 2005, providing alternative platform to Lloyds.
16% of gross written premium in 2009.
Growth of the business by volume and platform.
Amlin Bermuda, ACI, AFU and Amlin Singapore contributed 500.1 million to gross Leadership of process improvement in the London market to written premium in 2009. meet client needs e. g. policy issuance, electronic processing of claims.
Average turnover amongst senior underwriters of 4.7% over the period.
First class client service standards 4.
Effective risk and capital management Strengthening of our operational processes and practices to Pragmatic reinsurance purchase, balancing the risk return control delivery and measure performance.
relationship to optimise profi tability.
Highlighted by reduced reinsurance purchase in 2006 contributing to then record profi t. Impressive claims turnaround statistics, aided by lead position and focus on innovation.
Robust investment framework and approach, delivering superior investment returns.
Five year average return more than 1% better Focus on contract certainty, with operational statistics showing than peer average.
consistent delivery in this area.
Development of an integrated risk appetite framework and Strong continuity of client relationships, highlighted by high Enterprise Risk Management system.
retention ratios and positive client feedback.
Proven commitment to return capital to shareholders with special dividend, B share issue, share buy back and ordinary dividend per share growth over the period.
