Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Report The directors of Amlin plc the Company 1,599,228 shares were transferred out of Principal activity, Business Review present their report, the audited accounts treasury during the year to service exercises and key performance indicators of the Company and the consolidated of employee share options 2008: 2,001,348, The Groups principal activity is non-life accounts of the Company and its leaving 7,164,424 Ordinary Shares in treasury insurance and reinsurance underwriting in subsidiaries the Group for the year at the year end 2008: 8,763,652.
There have the Lloyds market, Bermuda and continental ended 31 December 2009. been no issues of shares or further share Europe.
A review of the Groups business, buy backs or transfers into treasury since the and developments during the year, is set year end but a further 2,438 Ordinary Shares out on pages 16 to 72 of the Annual Report had by 23 February 2010 been transferred overview, strategy and performance from treasury to satisfy employee share sections.
Further information is provided in options, leaving 7,161,986 shares in treasury the risk disclosure note and the Governance at that date.
section of the Annual Report starting on pages 132 and 73 respectively.
The Review At first interim dividend of 6.5p per Ordinary and Performance sections, risk disclosure Share 2008: 6.0p was paid on 8 October note and Governance section together 2009 to shareholders on the register on include the information and analysis required 11 September 2009.
The directors have by section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 to now declared a second interim dividend of be included in a Business Review, including 13.5p per Share 2008: nil, to be paid on 31 information on key performance indicators March 2010 to shareholders on the register and on the Groups financial and other risk at the close of business on 19 March 2010. management and policies.
Such information This makes total ordinary dividends for the and analysis is hereby incorporated by year of 20.0p per Ordinary Share 2008: reference into this report.
No final dividend is being proposed 2008: 11.0p.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan Share capital, treasury shares and was operated in respect of the first interim dividends dividend and is likely to be offered for most The Companys share capital during the year future dividends, but is not being offered consisted of ordinary shares of 28.125p each in respect of the second interim dividend Ordinary Shares and, until the final such as a result of the tight payment timetable.
shares were redeemed on 3 August 2009, Details of the Plan are available on the redeemable non-cumulative preference shares Companys website.
Details of the B Shares are set out in note 23 to the Accounts.
Directors The biographical details of the present There were 502,076,006 Ordinary Shares directors are set out on page 74 of the in issue at the year end 2008: 478,573,439, Annual Report.
Mr Holt was appointed as including shares held in treasury.
The a non-executive director on 5 January 2009, directors exercised their authority granted by having retired as an executive Director on shareholders to issue 23,502,567 Ordinary 31 December 2008.
All of the other current Shares on 8 June 2009 in a placing for cash directors served throughout the year.
No shares Ramanan Mylvaganam retired from the were bought back during the year 2008: Board on 13 May 2009.
10,765,000 shares bought into treasury at an average price of 256.09p per share.
Shareholder information 201 Directors interests At 31 Dec 2009 and at At 31 Dec 2008 The interests, all of which are beneficial, of date of this report No of Ord Shares No of Ord Shares those directors and their related parties who Directors interests have interests in the shares of the Company, C Bosse 3,540 are set out in the table below.
N J C Buchanan 11,200 11,200 B D Carpenter 379,449 379,165 On 31 December 2008 Mr Holt and or a M D Feinstein 4,000 related party and Mr Philipps and or a related R A Hextall 160,669 160,385 party held 45,890 and 37,150 B Shares A W Holt 259,102 152,054 respectively.
These had all been redeemed C E L Philipps 569,489 569,205 by August 2009.
R J Taylor 17,986 17,986 In the cases of Messrs Carpenter, Hextall Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 8,888 8,888 and Philipps, the above holdings include beneficial interests held through the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP.
In the case of Mr Holt, his holding at 31 December Substantial shareholdings 2008 also includes such interests.
Details At 23 February 2010 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% or more of directors interests in share options and of its issued ordinary share capital: long term incentive plans are set out in Number of shares held % of shares in issue the Directors remuneration report in the Governance section of the Annual Report, Invesco Ltd 54,469,864 11.0 as are details of the total interests of the BlackRock Inc 27,167,068 5.5 SIP and of the Groups Employee Share Majedie Asset Management Ltd 26,526,299 5.4 Ownership Trust.
Details of transactions Legal & General Group Plc companies 26,433,832 5.3 between the Group and directors who AXA S. A.
23,197,732 4.7 served during the year are set out in note J P Morgan Chase & Co companies 19,624,490 4.0 38 to the Accounts.
No directors have any other interests in Based on the Ordinary Shares in issue, excluding treasury shares, as at 23 February 2010 of 494,914,020 the shares or any other securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
115 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Report continued the UK on professional qualifications, Corporate governance and Political donations family leave, flexible working, sabbaticals, The Group made no political donations Directors remuneration staff harassment and equal opportunities during the year 2008: nil.
The Board Corporate Governance Statement are available on the Companys website and reports from the Boards Nomination Supplier payment policy or from the Secretary on request.
The and Audit Committees are set out with other Groups health and safety policy and the andperformance reports in the Governance section of the relevant local policies are publicised to staff, The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in Annual Report and are hereby incorporated including through the Groups intranet.
The accordance with agreed terms of business.
by reference into this report.
Details of the operation of the UK policy is monitored by Whenever possible, purchase orders are Companys rules on the appointment and a staff Health and Safety Committee.
The placed on the basis of the Groups standard removal of directors, and on how the Group Chief Executive, to whom the Group terms and conditions which include provision Companys Articles of Association may be Operations Director, Mr Andrew Grant, for the payment of suppliers within 30 days amended, are set out in the section entitled whose responsibilities include oversight of of the end of the month in which the Group Articles of Association in the Board health and safety throughout the Group, receives the goods or in which the services Corporate Governance Statement on page reports, makes an annual health and safety are provided.
Details of Directors remuneration are report to the Board.
theGroup during 2009, which excludes set out in the Directors Remuneration insurance creditors, represented report, also in the Governance section Corporate responsibility and approximately 27 days 2008: 26 days, of the Annual Report.
charitable donations based on the ratio of Group trade creditors A report on the Groups corporate Employment policies to the amounts invoiced during the year.
responsibility activities, including its The People section of the Review provides employee, environmental and community Annual General Meeting commentary on the Group as an employer, engagement, is set out in the Corporate The Notice of Annual General Meeting, including its commitment to training and Responsibility report in the Governance to be held at noon on Thursday 13 May professional development and the results of 2010 at the offices of the Company at section of the Annual Report.
The Group the third Ipsos MORI staff survey.
The Group Chief Executive has direct responsibility at St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London, EC3A recognises the importance of employee Board level for leading the Groups initiatives 8ND, is contained in a separate circular engagement and therefore operates the on all corporate responsibility related to shareholders which is being mailed or Amlin Consultation Forum in the UK as a matters, with the relevant senior managers otherwise provided to shareholders at the framework for discussion and consultation and advisory groups reporting to him.
between staff and management, as well as Relevant policies and terms of reference arrangements elsewhere such as the Works Directors indemnities are available on the Companys website Council operated by Amlin Corporate The Company has made third party or from the Secretary on request.
In addition to engagement indemnity provisions for the benefit of through line managers, employee The Group made charitable donations its directors and certain directors of the communication is facilitated by a during the year of 133,668 2008: Companys subsidiaries.
The current Groupintranet and a monthly Group 80,986, including donations in Bermuda indemnities of the directors of the Company AmlinUpdate e-newsletter.
by the Companys subsidiary, Amlin were, in all cases other than Mrs Bosses, Bermuda Ltd ABL.
The Groups charitable The Groups equal opportunities policy aims entered into during 2008.
Mrs Bosse entered donations were part of broader corporate to ensure that no employee, in application into an indemnity deed for the first time responsibility expenditure during the year for initial employment or as an existing during the year.
The employee including in the event of a change in force at the date of this report.
Groups charities budget excluding ABLs in his or her circumstances, receives less is managed by the Companys Community favourable treatment because of his or her Authorisation of directors conicts and Charities Panel chaired by the Finance sex, actual or perceived sexual orientation, of interest Director, Mr Hextall.
The ABL budget is gender including gender reassignment, The Companys Articles of Association managed in Bermuda under the direction marital or family status, age, ethnic origin, permit the authorisation of a directors of the ABL board.
Further details of the disability, race, colour, nationality, national potential conflict of interest or duty, Groups community and charitable activities, origin, creed, political affiliation, part-time for instance arising from a directors and of their governance, are set out in status, or any other condition, unless it can appointment as a director of another the Corporate Responsibility and Board be shown to be legally justifiable.
company which may have a business Corporate Governance report respectively.
Such Copies of the Groups policies some authorisations may be given by the applying to the whole Group and some remaining directors who are independent to the UK, with local variations outside 116 www.
Shareholder information 201 of the potential conflict.
A number of In addition, Note 2 to the accounts describes authorisations have been approved by the capital management needs and policies, Board in this manner, some of which are and Note 3 covers underwriting, market, summarised in the Board composition liquidity and credit risks which may affect the and independence section of the Board financial position of the Group.
Corporate Governance statement of the The Group has considerable financial Annual Report.
Such authorisations do not resources to meet its financial needs and remove a directors duty to ensure that any manages a mature portfolio of insurance actual conflict of interest or duty, should it risk through an experienced and stable arise, is dealt with appropriately, usually by team.
The directors believe that the Group the director taking no part in the relevant is well positioned to manage its business Board or Committee decision.
risks successfully in the current uncertain economic environment.
Directors statement on the disclosure of information to the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company auditors and the Group have adequate resources Each director at the date of the approval to continue in operational existence for of this report confirms that: the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they so far as the director is aware, there continue to adopt the going concern basis is no relevant audit information of in preparing the annual report and accounts.
which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Auditors the director has taken all the steps Following a casual vacancy arising from the resignation of Deloitte LLP as the Companys that he or she ought to have taken auditors on 22 September 2009, the Board as a director in order to make himself appointed  LLP or herself aware of any relevant audit PwC as auditors to the Company for the information and to establish that the year ended 31 December 2009, pursuant Companys auditors are aware of that to Section 485 3 c of the Companies Act information.
A discussion of the background to the This confirmation is given and should be re-tendering of the Group auditor position is interpreted in accordance with the provisions included in the Audit Committees report in of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the Governance section on page 87 of the Annual Report.
Going concern The Groups business, risk and financial A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual management, performance and position, General Meeting for the re-appointment of together with factors that are likely to affect PwC as auditors and to authorise the Audit future development, are described in the Committee to determine their remuneration.
Business Review between pages 16 and By Order of the Board 72 Capital management strategy, which covers how regulatory and economic capital needs are measured and how capital is deployed, is described in the Financial Management section on pages 60 to 70.
The financial position of the Group, including C C T Pender Secretary commentary on cash and investment levels, currency management, insurance liability 26 February 2010 management, liquidity and borrowings, is also covered in that section.
117 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Statement of Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the other events and conditions in accordance assets of the company and hence for taking Annual Report, Directors Remuneration report with the definitions and recognition criteria reasonable steps for the prevention and and the financial statements in accordance for assets, liabilities, income and expenses detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with applicable law and regulations.
set out in the International Accounting Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Standards Boards Framework for the Company law requires the directors to Rules, each of the directors, whose names preparation and presentation of financial prepare financial statements for each and functions are listed on page 74 of the statements.
In virtually all circumstances, financial year.
The directors are required annual report in the section entitled Board a fair presentation will be achieved by by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group ofDirectors, confirm that, to the best of compliance with all applicable IFRS.
financial statements under International each persons knowledge and belief: However, directors are also required to: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the financial statements, prepared in adopted by the European Union and have properly select and apply accounting accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the also elected to prepare the parent company policies: and EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements on the same basis.
The state whether applicable IFRS as liabilities, financial position and profit of the financial statements are also required by law adopted by the European Union have Group and Company: and to be properly prepared in accordance with been followed, subject to any material the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the the Directors report, including the departures disclosed and explained IAS Regulation.
matters incorporated therein by reference, in the financial statements.
contained in the Annual Report includes International Accounting Standard 1 The directors are responsible for keeping a fair review of the development and Presentation of Financial Statements proper accounting records that disclose performance of the business and the requires that financial statements present with reasonable accuracy at any time the position of the Company and the Group, fairly for each financial year the companys financial position of the company and enable together with a description of the principal financial position, financial performance them to ensure that the financial statements risks and uncertainties that they face.
This requires the faithful comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They representation of the effects of transactions, are also responsible for safeguarding the 118 www.
Shareholder information 201 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Amlin plc We have audited the Group financial applied and adequately disclosed: the Under the Listing Rules we are required statements of Amlin plc for the year ended reasonableness of significant accounting to review: 31 December 2009 which comprise the estimates made by the directors: and the the directors statement, set out in the Consolidated Income Statement, the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Directors Report on page 114, in relation Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive to going concern: and Opinion on financial statements Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, In our opinion the Group financial statements: the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the part of the Board Corporate the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Governance statement relating to the give a true and fair view of the state of the Equity and the related notes 1 to 39.
The companys compliance with the nine Groups affairs as at 31 December 2009 financial reporting framework that has been provisions of the June 2008 Combined and of its profit and cash flows for the year applied in their preparation is applicable Code specified for our review.
then ended: law and International Financial Reporting have been properly prepared in Other matter Standards IFRS as adopted by the accordance with IFRS as adopted We have reported separately on the parent European Union.
bytheEuropean Union: and company financial statements of Amlin Respective responsibilities plc for the year ended 31 December 2009 have been prepared in accordance with and on the information in the Directors ofdirectors and auditors the requirements of the Companies Act Remuneration report that is described as As explained more fully in the Statement 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
of Directors responsibilities set out on the previous page, the directors are responsible Opinion on other matters prescribed for the preparation of the Group financial by the Companies Act 2006 statements and for being satisfied that they In our opinion: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor the information given in the Directors is to audit the Group financial statements Report for the financial year for which the for and on behalf of in accordance with applicable law and Group financial statements are prepared  LLP International Standards on Auditing UK is consistent with the Group financial and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Chartered Accountants and Statutory statements: and comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Auditors Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the information given in the Board London Corporate Governance statement set out This report, including the opinions, on pages 78 to 85 with respect to internal 26 February 2010 has been prepared for and only for control and risk management systems and the Companys members as a body in Notes: about share capital structures is consistent accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of with the financial statements.
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other a The maintenance and integrity of the Amlin plc purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, website is the responsibility of the directors: the Matters on which we are required work carried out by the auditors does not involve accept or assume responsibility for any other consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the to report by exception purpose or to any other person to whom this auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that We have nothing to report in respect of report is shown or into whose hands it may may have occurred to the financial statements since the following: they were initially presented on the website.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements required to report to you if, in our opinion: Scope of the audit of the financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
certain disclosures of directors statements remuneration specified by law are not An audit involves obtaining evidence about made: or the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable we have not received all the information assurance that the financial statements are and explanations we require for our free from material misstatement, whether audit: or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an a corporate governance statement has not assessment of: whether the accounting been prepared by the parent company.
policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently 119
