Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Looking forward Sustaining a market leading performance Consistent Vision with a strategy for growth Our progress over the last five years has been substantial.
The challenge looking forward is to sustain that market leading performance.
During the year we have given thought to the Vision for the Group for the next stage of its development and the strategy to deliver sustained success.
We conclude that our Vision remains a sensible aspiration for a occurs.
In recent years this has meant that we have constrained our specialty insurance reinsurance business like ours.
We are convinced reinsurance underwriting to ensure that this balance was maintained.
that shareholder value is delivered through a clear focus on our Therefore we have been seeking ways in which we can grow our cross-cycle return on equity target and that the goal of delivering at non-catastrophe business, in our core business or via alternative least 15% return on equity through time is demanding compared to our platforms and in different geographies.
Building in this way develops estimated cost of equity of 8% to 10%.
Raising the target could mean the diversity in our business that has been fundamental to our turning away business that is in our shareholders interest to accept.
fi financial and operating performance in recent years and also provides the necessary balance to allow our catastrophe business to grow.
The building blocks for our Vision also remain relevant.
However, we believe it is appropriate to adjust our strategic priorities, with Growth through acquisition is central to our plans as we believe that effective cycle management more appropriately defi ned as organic growth alone is less likely to deliver the quality and scale effective management of risk and capital.
Additionally, with a high of growth targeted over our strategic horizon.
Investments in the level of current and anticipated change both within and external to UK and France in 2008 were initial steps in this direction and the the Group, we have added a business focus area for process and acquisition of ACI in 2009 was a material step forward.
to search for suitable investment opportunities and we believe that we can bring added value to such opportunities through integrating Looking forward, we believe that the strategy for delivery of our some of the risk management philosophies and techniques which Vision can achieve signifi cant growth through expansion of the have contributed to the success of Amlin.
platforms that Amlin operates from.
Our strong capital position gives us the opportunity to deliver growth over the insurance cycle that will The cycle management focus of our Vision also provides exciting provide further value to our investors.
Evidence suggests that there growth potential within our core businesses.
The performance of our is a positive correlation between profi table growth and the price to Syndicate 2001 and Bermudian business platforms over the last fi five book multiple.
years has been excellent and these businesses are in fantastic shape.
Our commitment to underwriting discipline has meant that some of Importantly, our growth strategy is focused on keeping balance our insurance businesses have become smaller as market conditions within our portfolios.
As we have explained in the past, we aim for have deteriorated.
However, as the cycle turns, we have the capital the mean expected profi tability of our business to cover the losses and the people in place to grow signifi cantly as others withdraw.
that may be sustained if one of our extreme catastrophe scenarios 22 22 www www.
Shareholder information 201 Measuring strategic progress Key priorities for 2010 Amlins focus for 2010 is centred on three themes: continued optimisation of the core business,  ACI into the Amlin Group and further alignment of the business and operations inlinewithSolvency II requirements.
The Groups priorities represent the key benchmarks against which we will measure our progress in 2010.
Otherrelated or business area speci c objectives are recognised in the remainder of this Report.
Improved understanding of client needs andmarkettrends Ensure delivery of adequate underwriting returns against allocated capital.
Develop the Amlin brand and maximise the return from marketing initiatives.
Implement Amlins underwriting practices for ACI where relevant, including line guide controls, monitoring and reporting.
Analyse growth opportunities and enhance broker relations.
Implement underwriting class reviews for ACI.
Review Amlins penetration in selected markets and identify business development opportunities.
Implement remuneration and benefi ts framework for ACI.
Review the opportunities available for cross selling business Successfully integrate ACIs French business within AFU.
First class client service standards 4.
Effective risk and capital management Deliver the Platform Replacement Programme for ACI in Pass all Solvency II pre-application processes.
Complete implementation of the risk management framework.
Deliver systems enhancements supporting claims workfl ow.
Complete implementation of the risk assessment process.
Develop Amlin UK client service performance measurement Integrate ACI into the overall risk management framework.
Review reinsurance expenditure for effi ciency.
Key performance indicators KPIs are used alongside operational objectives to measure performance in each business area.
We set targets and measure performance against these on a monthly basis.
Our 2009 KPIs together with other supporting measures, are detailed in the following sections of this Report.
23 23 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Focus on our brand Aligned with our core values Amlin is a respected brand in the Lloyds and London insurance In August 2009, Amlin signed a three-year partnership with the markets.
Prior to 2009, we had promoted the brand through European Rugby Cup ERC.
We became title partner of the Amlin modest UK sponsorships in sectors which we insure, notably Challenge Cup and premium partner of the Heineken Cup, both sailing, horseracing and eventing.
elite club rugby competitions which run from October to May each season.
In late 2008 and mid 2009, we acquired two European businesses, Anglo French Underwriters and Fortis now Amlin We underpinned the ERC partnership with a broadcast sponsorship Corporate Insurance.
We also grew our UK commercial business of rugby on Sky Sports television and web, for which an innovative via selective investments in niche businesses, renewal books campaign was created.
As we expanded our business, we needed toraise awareness of the Amlin brand among a new and Finally, we appointed Lawrence Dallaglio, a well respected former broaderclient base of brokers and insureds.
player and commentator, as our ambassador in order to cement the link between Amlin insurance and the world of rugby.
We chose to partner with rugby as the sports values of honesty, integrity and teamwork aligned with our own core values.
We also sought a European deal in support of our growth strategy in the region.
Charles Philipps Amlin CEO Lawrence Dallaglio Amlin Rugby Ambassador As leaders in our respective elds, a partnership between Amlin and Rugby has always been admired for its core values of honesty, integrity, ERC is an excellent t. We look forward to working collaboratively for team work, respect and desire for success.
Amlin as a company and the bene t of European rugby and to building awareness of Amlin as a business shares those values.
among our brokers and clients.
Performance A review of each of our businesses, our financial performance and our outlook for 2010.
Amlin London 26 Amlin UK 32 Anglo French Underwriters 36 Amlin Bermuda 39 Amlin Corporate Insurance 42 Risk management 46 Process and change management 50 People 56 Financial management 60 Pro tability and return 66 Outlook 71 Average combined ratio over five years of 73% Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin London A reputation for delivery 2009 was a year of excellent underwriting and operational performance.
We expect competitive pressures to provide a challenge in 2010 but our proposition is strong and we are well positioned to maintain a high level of performance.
Simon Beale Underwriting Director, Amlin London Key performance indicators Business focus G Gr ross written oss written p pr remiu emium m Amlin London differentiates itself in the Lloyds market by the expertise and experience of its underwriters, its focus on excellence of service to both brokers and clients and its superior capital strength.
Our track record of performance across the pricing cycle refl ects an established 2008: 2008: 689.7 689.7m m strategy focused on a well diversifi ed account, profi table gross underwriting, rigorous risk management and careful risk selection.
C Combined rati ombined ratio o We write a small percentage line across a large number of risks rather than taking large shares of fewer risks.
This controls exposures and enhances diversity within each underwriting portfolio.
2008: 72 2008: 72% % Catastrophe exposures are carefully managed through risk selection, line size and A Average rate verage rate iincr ncreas ease e risk modelling.
2009 highlights 2008: 7.7 2008: 7.7% % r reductio eduction n Gross written premium up 24% to 855.7 million, driven by the stronger US R Retent etentiion rat on ratio io dollar, an average rate increase of 4.7% and the addition of new business within Reinsurance and Property & Casualty.
Claims ratio of 29%, refl ecting benign catastrophe loss experience and excellent claims development.
2008: 83 2008: 83% % Strength of client relationships clearly demonstrated by a 91% retention ratio.
Operational and management changes in 2008 successfully embedded.
Formal strategy established for key broker relationship management and identifi cation of new business opportunities.
2010 priorities Further develop strategic relationships with key brokers: identify and target business development opportunities.
Additional investment in underwriting where opportunities identifi ed.
Continued development of aggregate modelling and technical pricing.
Shareholder information 201 Amlin London operates through Syndicate Operating structure 2001 at Lloyds.
It is organised into four business units: Reinsurance, Property & Casualty, Marine and Aviation, covering Amlin London 25 classes of business, creating a diverse Underwriting Director: portfolio of risk.
Although business is Simon Beale written worldwide, the key geographic Managing Director: market is the US, which accounted for David Harris 51% of business written in 2009.
Finance Director: Steve McMurray The division is managed by an executive team led by Underwriting Director, Simon Beale.
Each business unit is managed by a Head Underwriter with extensive experience in their respective markets.
Our specialist Reinsurance Property & Casualty Marine Aviation underwriters are supported by dedicated Head Underwriter: Head Underwriter: Head Underwriter: Head Underwriter: claims and policy wordings teams.
Kevin Allchorne Duncan Dale Andrew Wright Rod Dampier Market overview GWP: 389.6m GWP: 204.0m GWP: 203.9m GWP: 58.2m Lloyds is the worlds leading specialist insurance market, with more than 80 syndicates and gross written premium 1 of nearly 18 billion.
Lloyds capital structure For many years, Amlins Syndicate 2001 Several assets First link Syndicate level assets 38.3bn has been among the largest underwriting Second link Members capital 10.6bn businesses in the Lloyds market.
Mutual assets Third link Central Fund 852m Callable layer 495m Lloyds offers a number of benefits to its Corporation assets 138m Subordinated debt 1,082m underwriting members such as its global licensing network.
While reinsurance can be Source: Lloyds 2008 Annual Report written unlicensed in most territories, Lloyds network of licences allows syndicates to underwriter negotiates the price, determines Product range 1 write insurance in more than 200 countries.
coverage and is the primary point of contact Amlin is a recognised leader in the The access this gives to the US insurance for both placing broker and client.
Our Reinsurance market, the largest market by premium in business unit accounts for 46% of business the world, is particularly important.
Gross written premium by broker written by Amlin London.
Catastrophe reinsurance is our largest class of business, Lloyds syndicates also benefit from a well 2007 2008 2009 accounting for approximately 60% of developed distribution through dedicated % the Reinsurance portfolio.
The portfolio Lloyds brokers, which until recently were 30 is a global one with the US the largest the only intermediaries able to access the geographical market.
Most of Amlins Lloyds 25 events such as US or European windstorm business is sourced through global brokers and US or Japanese earthquake.
The operating in the London subscription market, 20 majority of the portfolio is written on a treaty as shown in the adjacent table.
Lloyds is predominantly a subscription 15 The Property & Casualty business unit market, where several syndicates will underwrites international insurance and take a share of a contract rather than one 10 some reinsurance business across a range underwriting the whole.
Property insurance accounts effective placement of large and complex 5 for just over half of the portfolio and the contracts and allows clients to reduce US is the most important territory.
Other their counterparty risk by spreading the A B C D E classes include auto, casualty, and accident placement of their re insurance across A: Aon Benfield 23% D: Next 7 25% and health.
B: Marsh 16% E: Remainder 24% C: Willis 12% Amlin London leads 45% of its London market subscription business.
The lead 1 Lloyds 2008 Annual Report 27 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Amlin London continued Amlin Londons Marine business Client service Business development encompasses a range of classes from The quality of our product offering and In 2009, we continued to build our energy, marine hull, cargo and liability to the high level of client service provided is underwriting teams, initiated a more focused bloodstock, fi ne art and private yacht cover.
demonstrated by the signifi cant percentage marketing capability and acquired Crowe The largest classes by premium are energy, of renewal business maintained each year Livestock Underwriting.
The majority of and the continuity of our client relationships.
Andrew Wright, the energy leading class business written is via lineslips and binding Strong fi financial ratings have always been underwriter, succeeded Simon Beale authorities, with 12.7% of business sourced as Head of Marine and we recruited an important to our clients, particularly in the directly by Amlins own agencies, particularly experienced marine hull underwriter to lead area of reinsurance.
The fi financial crisis of the for yacht, bloodstock and cargo.
We also recruited past two years brought this into even sharper The Aviation business unit underwrites airline additional underwriting expertise into our focus, with a number of major participants and general aviation insurance, covering property, casualty and accident and health in insurance markets experiencing fi financial areas such as airports and products liability classes and strengthened our catastrophe diffi culty.
Amlins position as a preferred as well as satellites.
market in Lloyds is enhanced by its security rating from AM Best, which at A is stronger Gross written premium by class Importantly, during 2009 we appointed than that for Lloyds as a whole at A. a Head of Broker Relations and Business AMBest is the most relevant rating agency Development.
After an initial research project for US business which forms a signifi cant to analyse business fl ows and to obtain part of Amlin Londons portfolio.
feedback from producing brokers, a formal 25% strategy for developing relationships with 25% Amlin is committed to fair, effi cient and key brokers and major clients has been timely claims management and during 2009 established.
A programme of regular contact we further improved our claims service with Amlin Londons top 30 brokers is now capability.
As Amlin does not control the 5% in place and a number of specifi c growth London market claims service from start opportunities have been identifi ed, as well as 15% 6% to fi nish, relying on brokers and shared a more structured liaison with our key brokers.
market services for some processes, we 6% view the speed of our claims turnaround 9% In November we acquired Crowe Livestock 9% as a key measure of our claims service.
Underwriting Ltd, a Lloyds coverholder Our average claims turnaround time from which provides specialist insurance to the initial notifi cation to agreement with brokers livestock industry.
This acquisition presents Catastrophe reinsurance 25% Energy 6% reduced to 2.5 days in 2009 from 2.9 days Property 15% Aviation 6% an opportunity for Amlin to diversify its Property reinsurance 9% Proportional reinsurance 5% in 2008. well regarded bloodstock book through an Marine 9% Classes 5% 25% acknowledged leader in the livestock market.
During the year, Gracechurch independent We expect Crowe to deliver an estimated consultants conducted a further survey of premium income of 11 million in 2010. Business retention ratios the attitudes of over 300 UK-based placing brokers towards the claims services offered % Trading environment and by insurers in Lloyds and the wider London 100 underwriting performance market.
We were pleased that Amlin was The trading environment for Amlin London 91 ranked second overall having been ranked was again mixed in 2009, with an average 83 81 80 third overall in 2008, beating the market 80 79 rate increase of 4.7% for the year 2008: average on all service measure attributes.
We brought the London claims team under 60 In 2009 Amlin Londons gross written common management in 2009.
This has premium increased by 24.1% over 2008 facilitated the extension to the marine to 855.7 million 2008: 689.7 million.
40 business of the class-based claims handling Premium growth was driven by a stronger approach already in place for most property dollar, rate increases and the addition of new and casualty classes.
For example, Amlin business within Reinsurance and Property 20 now has a dedicated claims team for all and Casualty.
energy claims whether these derive from marine, property or casualty policies.
This More than half of the year on year growth 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 approach allows optimum use of specialist was generated within our Reinsurance technical expertise within the claims business, which wrote 389.6 million in 2009 operation and ensures greater consistency 2008: 275.0 million.
This was achieved of claims management.
whilst maintaining net catastrophe exposures 28 www.
Shareholder information 201 within risk tolerances by ceding business property insurance achieved an average rate Natural catastrophe activity was relatively to S6106 which was set up in 2009.
As we increase of 5.9%, while US casualty business low in the year, with total insured catastrophe 1 increase our risk appetite in the future we will saw a rate reduction of 1.8%, We continue losses estimated at $22 billion.
The largest be able to grow our net premiums by ceding to believe that pricing in the US commercial insured event was the European winter storm less of this business.
market is unsustainably low, although Klaus, which affected Southern France in lower investment returns should encourage January, with an estimated total insured The contribution from Property and Casualty competitors to increase prices.
The table below shows increased to 204.0 million 2008: 168.6 major catastrophe losses in the year.
Amlin million, Marine accounted for 203.9 million Rates for marine classes as a whole were Londons estimated exposure is modest.
Offshore energy business Amlin Londons largest catastrophe event for million 2008: 56.6 million.
experienced a significant uplift in rates, with the period was winter storm Klaus for which an average increase of 22.3% in the year.
Margin potential for reinsurance business we conservatively estimate claims of However, in response to higher rates and remained good, particularly for US $9.7 million.
stricter terms, clients have retained more catastrophe business, where average risk.
Hull and liability classes sustained Amlin Londons combined ratio, excluding rate increases of 10.2% returned pricing favourable rate improvements of 7.0% and non-monetary exchange differences, towards peak levels evident in 2007.
Upward 6.3% respectively, with modest increases improved to 68% from 81% in 2008.
The pressure was also evident for international in most other marine classes.
catastrophe pricing, but the increase was claims ratio was 27% compared to 49% last year, reflecting the low level of catastrophe lower, averaging 4.5%.
Aviation markets remained challenging with losses in 2009 and additional prior period rates which were inadequate to compensate Rates for property and casualty classes reserve releases totalling 95.1 million 2008: for the risk assumed.
However, with a increased by an average of 3.1%.
number of notable losses, to which we were Competition in this area was stronger than not heavily exposed, pushing the airline expected and the necessary improvements The expense ratio was 41% compared to 32% insurance market into loss for the third year in rates to return the market to a position that in 2008.
The majority of the difference was we would find supportive of strong growth running, recent rate increases have been due to an adverse swing in foreign exchange.
have not materialised to date.
Other aviation 1 by sector is variable.
For example, US classes have begun to stabilise.
Source: Munich Re: 29 December 2009 press release.
Top five catastrophe losses to Amlin in 2009 Catastrophe loss Event date Market insured Amlin London Amlin Bermuda AFU Amlins loss estimated net loss estimated net loss estimated net loss estimated net loss $m $m $m $m $m European winter storm Klaus Jan-09 2,300 9.7 7.2 1.3 18.2 Australian wildfires Feb-09 770 7.1 5.0 12.1 US tornadoes February Feb-09 1,500 7.3 4.4 11.7 LAquila earthquake Apr-09 260 7.9 10.8 18.7 US tornadoes April Apr-09 990 2.5 4.4 6.9 29 Amlin plc A A Amlin plc m mli lin p n pllc c A A Annual Report 2009 Annual Report 2009 nnua nnuall R Report 200 eport 2009 9 Amlin UK continued Amlin UK continued Focus on modelling Illustration of volatility for the modelling case study Mean forecast result 50% of results will fall within this range 99% of results will fall within this range Median of the range of results 300 280 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 01 Fleet 09 Airline Liability 17 Bloodstock 25 Catastrophe US 33 Binders 41 Reinsurance Total 02 Other Motor 10 XS AVN52 18 Cargo 26 Catastrophe Intl 34 Auto 42 Property & Casualty Total 03 PI 11 Products 19 Energy 27 Risk XL 35 Casualty 43 Amlin London Total 04 FI 12 GA Hull 20 Hull 28 Marine XL 36 A&H 44 Syndicate Total 05 EL 13 GA Liability 21 Liability 29 Aviation XL 37 Special Direct 06 PL 14 Risk XS 22 Specie 30 Pro Rata 38 AIS Total 07 Package 15 Airports 23 War 31 Special RI 39 Aviation Total 08 Airline Hull 16 Space 24 Yacht 32 Direct & Facultative 40 Marine Total Transforming data into value Over the years, Amlin has established an excellent reputation for modelling results and to visualise their exposures on a map, modelling its catastrophe exposures and we have continued our for individual accounts as well as for their portfolio.
investment in this area during 2009.
We have also considerably improved the quality of our exposure We use modelling to achieve four aims: to help price individual data for binders and facilities, a section of our business where risks: to manage and balance our portfolio of risks: to help ensure underwriting authority is delegated to carefully selected managing that our risk remains inside the Groups risk appetite, and, to help agents and for which achieving good data quality is notoriously quantify our loss after an event.
We license the main proprietary challenging.
catastrophe models and strive to leverage their capabilities where they are most valuable: in differentiating risks at the point Improved quality of data assists in providing more accurate of underwriting: maintaining balance and diversifi cation in our modelling of the Groups portfolio exposure in areas at high risk portfolio, and monitoring our exposures against our set risk of wind, earthquake, fl ood or fi re and a combination of factors.
Our philosophy remains to use catastrophe models This feeds into our Dynamic Financial Analysis model, developed as useful tools, but not become over-reliant on them.
over many years which, in addition to modelling event outcomes, takes account of the interdependence between different classes For this purpose, we complement our probabilistic approach with within the portfolio.
The illustration above clearly demonstrates scenario-based assessments of our exposures, in order to mitigate the benefi ts of our business diversity in the lower aggregate some of the inherent uncertainty in catastrophe models.
During 2009, volatility of the whole portfolio.
This lower volatility leads to a we have continued to develop in-house realistic disaster scenarios to lower capital requirement and more effi cient use of capital.
monitor our risks, in addition to those prescribed by Lloyds.
We anticipate that continuing improvements to our portfolio We are also collaborating with broking fi rms and research facilities modelling capability will prove invaluable as the Group expands.
to improve our understanding of the strengths and limitations of We were able to fully model the AFU risk portfolio within three catastrophe models.
In particular, we have launched an initiative to months of the acquisition, and we have already reviewed the ACI independently assess the relative credibility of the various models.
book in the context of Amlins existing business.
Our portfolio modelling development is also standing us in good stead as we In 2009, our efforts have resulted in signifi cant enhancements prepare for model submission under Solvency II see page 54. in our underwriters capabilities to drill down into the details of 30 30 30 30 www www www www.
Performance.. P Per erf formance ormance 25 25 25 25 4.
Shareholder information eholder information eholder information 201 201 201 Focus on claims service Valuing the relationship When a client buys an insurance policy, they are buying a promise It was soon established that the crew were highly competent and to pay.
Prompt payment of valid claims is the most important the chief engineer had been ingenious in rigging up the temporary aspect of our service and in many cases, as in this example, pump.
However, interviews with the crew failed to establish why ourclient knowledge and specialist expertise are as vital tothe the plating failed, or why the vessel sank when it was designed claims process as they are to underwriting the risk.
to remain afl oat with only one hold fl ooded.
During 2009, a Japanese built bulk carrier, part of a fl fleet owned by In law, the underwriter could have imposed onerous demands a shipowner and client of Amlin since 1998, loaded a 25,000 metric on the ship-owner to prove the cause of the plating and sinking tonne cargo of sugar in South America and sailed for India.
However, Amlins longstanding relationship days into the voyage, the crew noticed that sea water was leaking with this client and knowledge of its operational record and into one of the cargo holds through cracks which had appeared in maintenance procedures meant that, despite the lack of a defi nitive the vessels side shell plating.
reason for the total loss, the underwriter was satisfi ed that the vessel was seaworthy.
The claim was validated and paid.
The crew managed to rig a pump to manage the leak, but heavy weather later in the voyage caused the cracks to worsen signifi cantly and eventually, with the weather deteriorating further, the crew were ordered to abandon ship.
All were rescued but the vessel capsized and sank.
Total Loss cases are often challenging to deal with due to the lack of This was a signifi cant loss for the client as it concerned one of physical evidence.
From the outset Amlin worked closely with owners the largest and most valuable carriers in their fl fleet.
The Amlin and brokers to ensure the necessary investigations were conducted underwriter and hull claims adjuster, together with the brokers, appropriately and sensitively.
Having gathered the necessary immediately visited the client, with the aim of quickly investigating information and satis ed themselves the loss was recoverable, and resolving the claim.
We were able to reassure the client that Amlinacted swiftly to ensure settlement funds were paid to the all parties plus our lawyers would work closely to reach a speedy assuredwithout delay.
