Shareholder information 201 Outlook Well positioned for challenges ahead It will be difficult for us to repeat the broadly flat, with rate increases achieved in competition was becoming less fierce.
Margin potential in these AmlinUK has taken a number of steps to the continuance of satisfactory market areas remains good and for 2010 we have enhance its growth prospects when pricing conditions for many areas of the Group increased our catastrophe risk appetite by improves to the right levels and is ready to puts us in a strong position, we believe, 40 million.
Importantly we retained strong seize opportunities that are expected to arise.
to again exceed our target 15% cross support from brokers for risks that were In Continental Europe, both for ACI and cycle return on equity.
Anglo French Underwriters AFU, the rating volumes will also be helped by a full year The rating environment in a number of environment remains challenging.
There is of ACIs premium income.
specialty classes also remains good or is little evidence yet that rate improvements showing signs of improving.
At the end of are imminent.
However the combined ratios A developing rating environment 2009 the main airline insurance renewal of ACIs property and liability accounts, and As we have commented upon previously, season saw rate increases of 8.2% achieved, AFU across the portfolio, are good for this the rating cycles of different parts of our with individual accounts experiencing point in the cycle and these businesses will business have become dislocated over increases of between 15% to 25%.
In not be pushed to pursue growth strategies the last five years.
Due to the diversity of our view this is still not fully sufficient to until a better environment returns.
our business classes and platforms, this adequately compensate for the risk borne provides us with the opportunity to allocate In the US, there appears to remain ample in this class but we began to selectively capacity where margins are most appealing.
capacity for property and casualty business engage.
Similarly, our marine teams were although rates continue to be relatively stable.
The reinsurance business, of Amlin London able to hold rates relatively steady at This market has been impacted by the fallout and Bermuda, remains an area where 1 January with Amlin Londons marine of the financial crisis of 2008 not in the we expect good performance in 2010.
A business achieving a rate increase of 0.5%.
way that would have been expected with a benign year for catastrophes in 2009, and ACI continued to re-underwrite its marine return to better rates for the transfer of risk the additional capacity that this creates in portfolio in order to return the account but rather increased competition as major the reinsurance market, will mean more to acceptable margins.
This has meant competitors fought to retain market share.
pressure is seen to reduce rates.
However, pushing for strong rate improvements on We still expect improvements: however, the reinsurance market has been very underperforming business and allowing such predicting when these will come and what disciplined in its approach over the last nine business to be lost if this is not achieved.
We willbe the catalyst is proving difficult.
years, reflecting the concentration of risk are fully supportive of this approach and it is that reinsurance companies bear and the clear that real progress is being made.
Momentum from acquisition, focus that many companies now have on unearned premium and reserves The picture in more mainstream commercial delivering a sensible cross-cycle return for insurance markets is mixed.
We do not While the environment may be difficult to that risk.
believe that many competitors are making predict, we are confident that the momentum The retrocessional market has shown little good profits in the UK, US or Continental built up in 2009 will carry us forward in 2010. sign of resurgence to provide risk transfer insurance markets in the motor, liability and The acquisition of ACI was completed on opportunities for reinsurance companies and 22 July 2009 and so 2010 will benefit from property markets in which we compete.
with capital markets more risk averse than Many commentators believe that the reserve a full years trading.
The fruits of the rethree years ago, there is limited evidence releases that have flattered results in recent underwriting in marine since the beginning of investment banking activity reigniting the times are running out.
That factor, taken with of 2009 should begin to be seen in better alternative risk transfer market.
lower investment return potential than we margins even if volumes are reduced.
Similarly, some of the effects on the marine have seen for many years, must be focusing This discipline was evident at the 1 January the minds of management on improvement.
account of the sudden drop in trade in late renewal season for our catastrophe We also believe that lagged recessionary 2008, both in terms of premium values and reinsurance business.
For our London and pressures will make the claims environment claims, should abate.
However, we do not Bermuda reinsurance accounts, this is a a more challenging one.
expect ACI will generate materially better key renewal season, with 27.7% of the underwriting returns until 2011 because of business expected to be written for the In the UK we expect that we will continue to the delayed effect of re-underwriting which year renewed at this point.
It also sets the see steady improvement through 2010 and impacts the expense ratio first through lower tone for the April and mid-year reinsurance acceleration into 2011 as poor underwriting premiums and the claims ratio more slowly strategies of the last few years catch up renewal seasons.
For US catastrophe risks, as the premium written at better margins rate reductions averaged 4.4%, lower than and competitors are forced to take remedial takes time to earn through.
the market averages announced by the action.
Signs of distress became apparent major reinsurance brokers.
This leaves prices in 2009 in fleet motor in particular where The net unearned premium at 31 December above the level at the start of 2008.
For our we have experienced improved quote 2009 stands at 692.0 million 2008: 518.4 and conversion rates, suggesting that million, with much of the premium written international catastrophe account rates were 71 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Outlook continued at good margins.
This provides a solid less exposure to interest rate risk, such as foundation for the year.
LIBOR plus funds, or have the ability to short the bond market.
The latter increases the The reserving position of Amlin remains opportunity to make an acceptable return.
Despite record reserve releases in 2009, we have applied our reserving policy Many companies appear to have weathered consistently.
We reserve above a 50:50 the recession well, with strong balance actuarial best estimate, which means that sheets, good performance in 2009 from we would expect to see reserve surpluses strong control of costs, and are seeing arising if claims development is in line with improvements in revenues as economic expectations.
Our track record is strong activity improves.
Consequently we have and while we do not anticipate a repeat of removed the hedges that we had in place some of the factors that increased releases during the second half of 2009, which were in 2008 and 2009, we do expect releases to used to control the overall risk of the equity be robust.
Although economic activity is likely to be constrained we believe that there is Reserve releases a reasonable chance of acceptable returns from our equity portfolio in 2010. m 200 Summary 174.1 Overall, we anticipate a more challenging 160 environment for 2010 but one where Amlin remains capable of delivering above target returns.
Our underwriting discipline and 120 114.7 good margins in areas towards which we are 109.0 weighted, such as reinsurance, marine and 79.7 80 a rising UK commercial insurance market, 68.9 should ensure that we continue to see healthy underwriting returns.
The investment 40 market will likely deliver lower returns but is still capable of generating a material contribution if we remain agile and risk 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 aware.
Our capital position remains strong which will be attractive to clients looking for Investment markets robust partners and also provides us with the Looking forward, we hope that investment ability to continue to develop the business.
markets lose some of the volatility that has been evident in the last two years.
However, if this happens, what is clear to us is that the return potential is not going to be strong.
Bond markets, particularly short-dated bonds, with low interest rates in developed economies and credit spreads for corporate bonds back to more normal levels, do not offer the return potential of 2009.
Economic activity remains subdued and the headwinds against any pick up are heavy.
This suggests that we will not see rapidly rising interest rates, but a steady return to more normal levels over the next few years should be expected.
We see little material upside in yields and so have been diversifying our portfolios away from gilts and treasuries that we have used in recent years.
We have invested more with managers that have 72 4.
Governance Introducing the Board of Directors and executive management and explaining our approach to governance andcorporate responsibility.
Board of Directors 74 Senior executive management 76 Board Corporate Governance statement 78 Nomination Committee 86 Audit Committee 87 Investor relations 90 Corporate responsibility 92 Directors remuneration report 98 Syndicate 2001: AM Best: A Superior Amlin Bermuda: AM Best: A Excellent Amlin Corporate Insurance: S&P: AStable
