Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Process and change management Enhancing our ability to adapt Operational excellence and change management are integral to the delivery of our future strategy.
We have made a signi cant investment in our capabilities in 2009 and will develop these further as we tackle business integration and continuous improvement needs.
Andrew Grant Group Operations Offi cer Key performance indicators Business focus Amlin has an increasing focus on operational excellence as a response As described in Looking Forwar As described in Looking Forward d tothechallenges of growth.
o on page 22, pr n page 22, process an ocess and d c ch hange ange mana manag gement r ement repr epresents a new esents a new b bus usiiness ness We look at our business processes from the perspective of the customer, focus ar focus area within our strategic pyramid.
ea within our strategic pyramid.
W We ar e are curr e current entlly y d deve evellop opiing a ng a d fide edi dicate cated d We are developing our change management capabilities as the means to deliver KPI hierar KPI hierarch chy y for this business ar for this business area ea.. operational excellence.
Our approach to change management focuses on change governance and changedelivery.
2009 highlights Appointment of Andrew Grant as Group Operations Offi cer in May 2009.
Re-organisation of Group Operations operational structure.
Investment in resource to support the integration of AFU and ACI and our preparations for Solvency II.
Early ACI business integration objectives achieved.
Amlin ACI Platform Replacement Programme planning completed: implementation on track using Group solutions.
Group-wide Solvency II programme mobilised see pages 54 to 55.
Integration of Anglo French Underwriters with delivery of supporting operational infrastructure and processes.
2010 priorities Continued integration of ACI and development of the new Amlin France division.
Integration of recent acquisitions Crowe Livestock Underwriting and Locktons Insolvency Risk Services business.
Further development of Amlins operational excellence and change management capabilities to be ready for increasing scale and diversity in the business.
Completion of data quality review for the internal model for Solvency II compliance, and preparation of the internal model for approval.
Shareholder information 201 Our business operations have grown The change landscape and diversi ed in recent years and Our business growth The Amlin Group has developed signifi cantly over the last fi five further growth forms a signi cant strategy years.
We have established a business of greater scale, evidenced part of the Groups future strategy.
by growth in gross and net assets over the fi five year period.
Our business is also increasingly diverse both in the classes of Werecognise that to sustain our business that we write and also in the multiple geographies within market leading performance, we which we now operate.
Growth has been organic, for example must maintain and build on our core the start up of Amlin Bermuda in 2005, and also more recently strengths and values, whilst addressing through acquisition, for example the purchases of Anglo French Underwriters 2008 and Fortis Corporate Insurance 2009.
We the challenges of scale and diversity continue to search for suitable opportunities to develop and grow ofmarkets and geography.
the Group in pursuit of our declared fi financial return objectives.
The importance of consistent and Our markets and the Our markets continuously re-price in response to the demand well-managed processes, operational regulatory environment for insurance and the supply of available capital.
We believe that economies of scale and the avoidance of our ability to adapt our approach to the markets in response to unnecessary duplication grows in line with the rating cycle is a key differentiator in driving superior fi financial performance, a feature we will preserve as we grow.
We aim to complement our disciplined approach to profi table Beyond regular market forces, insurance markets have been underwriting with increasing focus on affected by turbulence in capital markets and will continue to operational excellence as a response seechange in distribution channels, regional market hubs and thedevelopment of alternative risk transfer mechanisms such tothe challenges of growth.
Our change asinthose capital markets.
management capabilities will continue to develop as the means through which we Signifi cant regulatory developments will also affect the non-life deliver operational excellence across the insurance industry: Solvency II will overhaul insurance regulation in the EU and have infl uence elsewhere: the International Accounting businesses and functions of our enterprise.
Standards Boards IFRS 4 Phase 2 will change the accounting framework for insurance contracts.
Understanding the change landscape Our context is managing growth and responding to the changing market and Operational excellence regulatory environment.
As shown in the table top right, the business environment Operational governance standards accountability in which we operate is conditioned Continuous improvement reporting performance objectives by a number of important internal Measurement operational risk framework andexternalfactors.
Operational excellence Operational risk Process management Process improvement Operational excellence is our approach to management managing the effectiveness of business processes and controlling the operational Performance planning Continuous Policy and standards improvement risks inherent in doing business.
We focus Performance standards Risk appetite on the business process as it crosses Effectiveness Performance levels Risk assessment boundaries within our organisation Effi ciency and we look through the process from Performance indicators Risk evaluation and the perspective of the customer, the Sharing best practice monitoring Performance reporting shareholder and the regulator.
Our approach to operational excellence iscaptured in the diagram on the right.
Continuous improvement, scaling and consistency 51 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Process and change management continued Alongside key activities around During the year, we have added to our Change management theacquisition and integration of ACI, strengths by recruiting experienced Our approach to change management is preparation for Solvency II, and technology personnel into the new structure and have centred on change governance deciding and infrastructure developments, we have built up teams to address the integration of what we do and change delivery how we reviewed the role of Group Operations to ACI and our preparations for Solvency II.
Change management applies to the deliver our vision for operational excellence.
continuous improvement of our existing Technology The objective of the review was not only to operations and the integration of acquired With the future growth strategy of identify how we further develop operational businesses.
the Group in mind, in April 2009 we excellence across the firm, but also to Change governance takes a principled commissioned a review of our information develop our ability to involve our and structured approach to enabling technology systems by a firm of external management and staff in defining the leadership of the Group and the consultants.
The purpose of the review was anddriving activities that address divisions to set priorities for discretionary not only to assess the strength of Amlins thechange landscape.
project expenditure, assess the return information technology proposition in terms Importantly, we have integrated existing of the current business, but also to form on investment and to determine the technology and business process groups a view on the scalability of the existing effectiveness of our change portfolio in into Group Operations and re-organised infrastructure to support anticipated growth helping to deliver our strategy.
Our priority around our key objectives.
The conclusions of the review were is to ensure that the capacity of the Group now consists of the following teams: positive.
Not only did Amlins existing is deployed on our highest priorities, information technology infrastructure whether Group-wide or division-specific.
Group Operations Management Ofce represent best practice in our markets, our whose role is directing the strategy Change delivery involves a best practice, strategy roadmap was judged well placed for operational growth.
This includes structured approach to the planning and to support future plans.
dedicated teams for Operational execution of change programmes that Governance, Planning and Reporting, ensures that the owners of our business Delivering change Acquisition Integration Management and processes, and all others involved in The successful integration of AFU, which Communications.
delivering change, whether internal was acquired in November 2008, was a key providers or external partners and vendors, Change Management whose role is leading objective in 2009.
While there is further work and managing change across functions and are clear what business change we seek to do as we bring together the new Amlin businesses.
This includes developing and to deliver.
Our priority is to ensure that France division our French managing general implementing best practices and standards the outcomes intended are captured agent, built from AFU and ACIs business in based around the Prince 2 methodology and preserved through the lifecycle of a France we are pleased with the progress that and aligned to Amlins organisation.
programme and that the business process has been made in the year.
Attention has also been given to further developing underwriting solutions we deliver are fit for purpose.
Business Process Management whose processes and controls.
role is the identification and delivery Development of change ofimprovements to processes.
We continued to commit significant management capabilities management priority and resources to Operational Risk Management whose role In 2009 we made significant investment our Solvency II programme, with the aim is the development and embedding of the in developing our change management of ensuring that our own capital and risk operational risk framework, the application capabilities in order to deliver operational management model will be accepted by ofoperational risk appetites to processes excellence.
The investment has been the FSA, the Dutch National Bank and and the controlling of operational risk levels.
targeted not only to support existing the Bermuda Monetary Authority for the operations and key change initiatives, Design Authority whose role is quality purposes of setting our capital requirement butalso to further prepare for a larger assurance of business change, oversight in 2012, under the new EC Directive that andmore diverse business.
of business technology solutions and will be introduced for the insurance industry confirmation with stakeholders of the match at that time.
Solvency II and our associated In May, Andrew Grant was recruited to the between requirements and solutions.
programme of work are described in detail role of Group Operations Officer.
Andrew on pages 54 to 55. brings extensive experience of integrating Technology Management and Services and transforming the operations of large whose role is the management of the In 2010, in addition to the continued financial services groups which will help Group IT infrastructure, services and integration of ACI, two further acquisitions, ensure that, as the Amlin Group expands, applications, and which supports Group Crowe Livestock Underwriting and Locktons we will do so efficiently and to the benefit functions and our business divisions with Insolvency Risk Services business, will be of our shareholders and customers.
Shareholder information 201 Successfully integrating ACI ACI integration progress The purchase of Fortis Corporate Insurance Immediate integration Rebranding Completed now Amlin Corporate Insurance or ACI tasks Employment contracts Completed was completed on 22 July.
At the time of Year-end reporting Completed the announcement we described how the Investment portfolio strategy Completed acquisition was in line with the strategy set Reinsurance security and programme placement Completed out in Amlins 2008 Annual Report.
Review of marine account Completed In the past two years we have taken a Medium-term integration Marine remediation In progress number of steps to prepare for a larger and tasks Catastrophe risk management In progress more geographically diverse Group.
For Amlin underwriting process In progress example, in 2008 we made a number of Amlin underwriting controls In progress organisational changes, both to the Groups divisional structure and to strengthen the Amlin reserving approach In planning wider executive management team.
These Solvency II preparation In planning preparations have not only played an Management information reporting In progress important role in supporting the successful Mid 2011 platform Systems solutions and delivery approach Defined acquisition of ACI, but are now fundamental replacement Governance and management In place to ensuring that the business is effectively Programme definition and scope Completed integrated within the Group.
Programme mobilised and staffed Completed Our approach to ACIs integration within the Requirements, design, delivery In progress Group distinguishes between immediate, medium-term and platform replacement structure, processes and resource are activities.
Each of these areas is being in place.
We have made strong progress addressed at pace.
The integration in building an integrated PRP team, programme is led by the Group completing planning and moving into the OperationsOfficer.
Immediate and medium-term integration Managing integration risk has been a tasks focus on areas including business constant focus since acquisition.
Shortly strategy, underwriting, risk, finance, human after the transaction was announced, an resources and communications.
executive steering group was put in place Progress to date has been pleasing.
to direct the priorities of the business and Key highlights are illustrated in the support functions during transition.
Group executive management and the ACI management team have worked together Platform Replacement Programme closely to ensure that we address the key The ACI Platform Replacement Programme risks and productive capacity on the priority PRP is a longer-term deliverable, integration and risk management tasks, focusing on both separation from Fortis involving people, financial return, risk and the implementation of new systems exposure and operational capacity.
and associated business processes and controls.
At the same time as we build the Our work in 2009 puts us in a good position future platform for ACI, based on existing from which to complete the integration of Amlin group systems components, we ACI into Amlin processes and systems, are disentangling the ACI business from while addressing the improvement of former Fortis Group companies who, under financial returns through transferring Amlin transition agreements, continue to supply best practice underwriting.
certain support services and infrastructure until 2011.
Given the scale and challenge of the work involved, an important step has been to ensure that the appropriate programme 53 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Focus on Solvency II Background Target Operating Model Solvency II is an EC Directive aimed at Amlin has for some time focused on Our approach to Solvency II is based overhauling the regulation of all life and nonmaintaining high standards of risk upon delivering an end state defi ned life insurers.
Implementation is scheduled for management and is therefore in a strong as our Target Operating Model TOM, October 2012.
A key objective is to introduce position to meet Solvency II standards.
illustrated in the diagram to the right.
However, we view this as a business a more risk based approach to regulation, The TOM is business focused and is with strong incentives for fi rms to assess opportunity to raise our standards further based upon protecting our successful their own capital requirements internally.
In and to increase our competitive advantage.
underwriting culture, while further this regard, there are a number of similarities Within Amlin, Solvency II is a Group-wide embedding actuarial analysis and formalised with current FSA rules which require all initiative drawing on resources from across risk management into our operations.
insurance fi rms to produce an Individual the organisation.
Importantly, we do not Capital Assessment ICA.
Our TOM is fully aligned to the principles regard Solvency II as a purely compliance of Solvency II and covers the output of an Solvency II goes beyond existing regulation exercise.
Instead, adherence to Solvency II independent gap analysis based upon by aiming to instil a high standard of risk will be the product of a well run company, our current state compared to existing management and governance within with risk management fully embedded in regulatory guidance.
It will introduce each insurer.
A fundamental aspect of strategy and the decision making process.
greater formality which will enable us this is infl uencing the risk culture of an to evidence the depth of embedding organisation.
The diagram below within the business.
This will support our summarises the three pillars of Solvency II.
application for Internal Model approval.
Prescribed approach for solvency balance sheet Pillar 1 Market consistency Quantitative measurement Solvency capital requirement: standard or internal model Realising the bene ts Amlin believes signi cant commercial Focus on enterprise risk management bene ts will be realised through the Pillar 2 Policies and governance implementation of our TOM.
The Supervisor review The ORSA Own Risk and Solvency anticipated bene ts of Solvency II, Assessment programme progress to date and our priorities for 2010 are summarised in this section.
Public and private requirements Greater capital fl exibility by approval of a Pillar 3 Increased risk transparency Solvency II compliant internal capital model Disclosure Greater visibility of actual risk relative to risk appetite Better management of risk exposure Capital requirements Greater transparency on performance For many organisations, the proposals may Capital requirements are determined by and contribution of specifi c underwriting materially impact the perceived fi financial either a standard formula or an internal entities within the Group strength of the company.
The balance model which has been pre-approved by Improved risk focus, contributing to sheet is restated on market-consistent the regulator.
The design of the standard more stable earnings principles, with insurance liabilities valued formula is still to be fi nalised, but it is likely on an actuarial best estimate basis and to encourage fi rms to develop their own discounted for future investment income.
Internal model approval A margin is then added to cater for risk.
for the Lloyds market is being closely In Amlins case, this margin should result managed by Lloyds.
in the substantial reserve being realised as an explicit asset for solvency purposes.
Shareholder information eholder information 201 201 Target Operating Model Operation of the internal model Actuarial analysis and judgement Risk management Governance, organisation and policies Internal model Risk and capital assessment including internal models Data and Data and reconciliation reconciliation Expertise and judgement eg.
underwriter judgement People and Technology Management reward, clients and information and brokers infrastructure Business strategy and risk governance Business strategy Business management Business platform Progress to date Priorities for 2010 Delivery programme fully mobilised for Amlin Underwriting Embed ORSA reporting process within the day-to-day Limited AUL and Amlin Bermuda Limited ABL businessprocesses Solvency II preparations commenced for ACI Complete roll out of new risk assessment tool across the Group Engaged with FSA, Bermuda Monetary Authority Implement risk based performance measurements into the 2010 and Dutch National Bank regarding our approach to business planning cycle Solvency II compliance Further embed technical pricing across the business Risk governance arrangements have been reviewed Deliver additional catastrophe and aggregate modelling tools against CEIOPS guidance Enhance investment risk modelling capability New risk assessment process close to completion for Improve data quality review for the internal model entire Group Update management information reporting to measure External investment risk management review completed performance against key components of the TOM Approach agreed for supporting management information and data 55 55 55 55 e c n a m r o f r e p s s e n i s u B Expert analysis and judgement Underwriting activities Investment activities Expert analysis and judgement
