Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Anglo French Underwriters An established player Becoming part of the Amlin Group has enhanced AFUs capabilities and product range and will support investment in the business for the future.
Franois Martinache Chairman, Anglo French Underwriters Key performance indicators Business focus G Gr ross written oss written p pr remiu emium m AFU operates in the French commercial SME market, writing a diverse range of business focused on sectors where its specialist underwriting and pricing skills can generate underwriting profi ts.
AFU offers specialist coverage for complex and hazardous risks, as well as tailored packages for specifi c business sectors.
C Combined rati ombined ratio o An important differentiator is its focus on providing a responsive and personal service to small and medium sized brokers.
AFU benefi ts from strong relationships with brokers and clients, founded on high service standards.
R Retent etentiion rat on ratio io 2009 highlights AFUs profi le in the French regional market enhanced by becoming part of Amlin Group.
Gross written premium of 40.5 million, with 78% retained within Syndicate 2001.
Completed review of AFU product offering with support from Amlin underwriters.
Opened Lyon offi ce to extend regional presence.
2010 priorities Rebrand as Amlin France, including successful integration of ACIs Paris offi ce.
Continue to raise the profi le of the Amlin brand within target markets.
Roll out new products developed and supported by Amlin London.
Further develop new business opportunities targeted by the Lyon offi ce.
Note: Data for average renewal rates is not currently available.
Shareholder information 201 Anglo French Underwriters AFU is Operating structure Lloyds largest approved coverholder in France, writing a diverse book of SME specialty business, including property, Anglo French cargo, professional liability and specie Underwriters insurance through a network of more Chairman Franois Martinache than 1,350 retail brokers.
Chief Executive AFU is led by Franois Martinache and Alexandre Martinache Alexandre Martinache they are unrelated Chief Financial Officer and focuses on six business classes as Rafal Odasso shown in the adjacent chart.
Syndicate 2001 underwrote 77% of AFUs business in 2009, up from 7% prior to its acquisition by Amlin in November 2008.
In 2010 Property Leisure Cargo Specie Professional General theSyndicate share is expected to SME liability liability increasefurther.
GWP: GWP: GWP: GWP: GWP: GWP: Successful integration within the Amlin 20.3m 6.2m 6.1m 3.5m 3.6m 0.8m Group was a priority for the business during Note: Represents total gross written premium, not just Syndicate 2001 share.
2009 and this has progressed wellacross business strategy, underwriting, risk, finance and human resources.
Recently, AFU has Gross written premium by class Market overview started to expand into middle market France is the fifth largest non-life insurance commercial business, particularly in 2% market in the world and third largest in property insurance.
Europe, with direct premium volume of 9% Property SME insurance is AFUs largest 44.8 billion in 2008, an increase of 2.5% 9% class of business, specialising in complex 1 over 2007.
The ten largest insurers by and hazardous risks, for example coverage premium account for approximately 79% for the paper recycling, plastics, biomedical of the market, which is dominated by 50% and food storage industries.
15% domestic French companies and mutuals.
The percentage of non-life premiums written AFU has a focus on the leisure industry 1 by foreign companies is around 25%.
with comprehensive property cover 15% provided in niche areas such as night AFUs principal competitors include the clubs, bowling alleys and camp sites.
major European multinationals such as Axa, Allianz and Generali as well as the AFU offers both general cargo coverage leading French domestic insurers such Property SME 50% Professional liability 9% and specialist transport cover from supply 1 Leisure 15% Specie 9% asGroupama.
to delivery, covering transit by air, land or Cargo 15% General liability 2% water which can include contractual and The French market is competitive and professional liability cover.
well supplied with capacity but it is also a relatively stable market due to a strong Other specialist lines include jewellers Client service emphasis on relationships, which makes coverage for stock held on the premises or AFU distributes its products through it difficult for new entrants to break in.
at exhibitions and fine art cover for property anextensive network of brokers, spread Distribution is well developed with brokers held at art galleries, as well as high value across France.
AFUs focus on delivering a and agents producing the majority of property coverage for private individuals.
personal service, tailored to the demands of commercial business written.
the SME market, has enabled it to develop AFU also offers professional liability cover strong and long-standing relationships Product range to insurance intermediaries, financial with many medium and smaller sized AFU focuses on the French SME market, advisors and estate agents.
liability coverage is offered either as targeting particular market sectors where its specialist underwriting and pricing skills complementary cover to other lines In 2009, the focus was on developing have the potential to generate sustainable ofbusiness or on a standalone basis.
relationships with some 400 targeted local 1 Source: AXCO Insurance Market Overview.
37 Amlin plc Annual Report 2009 Anglo French Underwriters continued brokers.
As part of this strategy, in May Trading environment and 2009, a new AFU office was opened in underwriting performance Lyon.
This new location gives AFU closer The impact of the global financial crisis access to the greatest concentration of and economic recession on the French industry and commerce in France outside market was evident in a reduced overall Paris and will provide a platform for further demand for commercial insurance, together development of AFUs broker distribution with lower premium volume in classes inthe region.
of business where premium is related toclientturnover.
AFU benefits from Amlins strong Financial Strength Ratings which support client The market remains highly competitive confidence in our ability to manage in many areas with new entrants further theirrisks and support their claims.
increasing competition for new business.
However, with commercial insurance Client retention for 2009 remained high pricing already at a cyclical low, we do not at 84%.
This is particularly pleasing in a anticipate further significant deterioration challenging year for the business following inthe rating environment in 2010. its acquisition and reflects AFUs success in maintaining high service levels during the In its first full year as part of the Group, integration process with the Amlin Group.
AFU contributed 31.4 million to gross written premium.
The major contribution Business development came from property SME which generated The acquisition by Amlin enhanced premium of 17.8 million in the year.
AFUs profile with brokers, leading to Given challenging market conditions, greater success in winning new business thecombined ratio of 87% is a good result.
The claims ratio is 50%, reflecting two large Amlins sponsorship of European rugby net losses for summer fire damage to is of particular value in France given the French properties, each around 2 million, national interest in the sport and this is and a net exposure for Syndicate 2001 already contributing to raising Amlins towinter storm Klaus of 0.9 million.
profile with AFUs existing and target Theexpense ratio was 37%, below brokers and clients.
Looking forward, we plan to expand AFUs operations and broaden its offering with Amlin products.
For example, products currently being developed for launch through AFU include a yacht cover based on Amlins small yacht and pleasure craft business.
We also anticipate that the acquisition of Crowe Livestock Underwriting will provide opportunities todevelop our livestock product offering.
The merger of ACI France into AFU during 2010 will also create further opportunities for new business development.
