Overview PerFOrMANCe review gOverNANCe FiNANCiAl stAteMeNts AshMOre grOuP PlC Ar 09 gOverNANCe BOArD OF DireCtOrs 25 the Board has long investment management experience.
Board of Directors the hon.
Michael Benson graeme Dell Jonathan Asquith Non-executive Chairman Age 66 Group Finance Director Age 43 Non-executive Director Age 52 Michael was appointed to the Board Graeme Dell was appointed to the Jonathan Asquith joined the Board on as non-executive Chairman on 3 July Board as Group Finance Director 1 September 2008 and is Chairman of 2006.
He is Chairman of the Companys in December 2007.
Prior to joining the remuneration committee.
Michael began Ashmore Graeme was Group Finance formerly Vice Chairman of Schroders plc his career in the City in 1963 and, Director of Evolution Group plc from and held the position of Chief Financial after a series of senior positions in the 2001 to 2007, where he had group-wide Officer between 2002 and 2007.
During investment management industry, was, responsibility for finance, operations, his time at Schroders he also had from 2002 to March 2005, Chairman technology, compliance, risk and HR responsibility within the investment of Invesco and Vice Chairman of which included playing a significant role function for fixed income, emerging Amvescap plc.
Prior to that he was in the foundation and development of market debt, commodities and property CEO of Invesco Global 1997-2002.
and oversaw their investment capital Michael is a non-executive director Graeme previously worked for Deutsche and private equity interests.
Prior to that of Border Asset Management Limited, Bank and Goldman Sachs in a range he worked for Morgan Grenfell and was is a Trustee of the North Yorkshire of business management, finance appointed as Chief Financial Officer of Community Foundation and is director and operations roles both in Europe Deutsche Morgan Grenfell in 1995 and of the York Minster Fund.
Graeme qualified Chief Operating Officer in 1997.
In 2001 as a chartered accountant with he joined Barclays Private Bank, where Mark Coombs Coopers & Lybrand and is a graduate he was head of UK private banking Chief Executive Officer Age 49 of Hertford College, Oxford University.
until his move to Schroders in 2002.
Mark Coombs was appointed a Director He is also a non-executive director on the incorporation of the Company in Nick land of AXA UK PLC.
A, N, r Senior Independent non-executive Director Age 61 December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive Officer since then.
He Nick Land was appointed to the Board Melda Donnelly Non-executive Director Age 59 held a number of positions at Australia as Senior Independent non-executive and New Zealand Banking Group ANZ Director and Chairman of the audit Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore and led Ashmores buyout from ANZ committee on 3 July 2006.
He is a Group plc Board as a non-executive in early 1999.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, qualified accountant and was a partner Director in July 2009, and is also a the trade association for emerging of Ernst & Young LLP from 1978 member of the audit committee.
Melda markets, having been on the Board to June 2006 and its Chairman is an Australian citizen and a Chartered since 1993.
Mark has an MA in Law from 1995 to June 2006.
She is the Founder and from Cambridge University.
non-executive director of Royal Dutch Chairperson of the Centre for Investor Shell plc, BBA Aviation plc, Alliance Education.
Current directorships include Boots GmbH and Vodafone Group plc.
Chairperson of Hochma Development He is Chairman of the Practice Advisory Fund Pty Ltd and Deputy Chairperson Board of the Institute of Chartered of Victorian Funds Management Accountants in England and Wales, Corporation.
Ms Donnellys past a member of the Finance and Audit investment experience includes being Committees of the National Gallery CEO of Queensland Investment and is Chairman of the Board of Corporation, Deputy Managing Director Trustees of Farnham Castle.
A, N, r of ANZ Funds Management and Managing Director of ANZ Trustees.
She is currently a member of the Advisory Committee of the Oxford A University Centre for Ageing.
Key to membership of committees A Audit N Nominations r Remuneration 1119 Ashmore R&A09 mid.
