Performance review 61 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Capital management Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Accounting basis and capital employed by segment Capital management The table below shows how our capital, on an MCEV basis, Capital management objectives is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
Avivas capital management philosophy is focused on capital efficiency and effective risk management to support the Restated dividend policy and earnings per share growth.
Overall capital 2009 2008 m m risk appetite is set and managed with reference to the Long-term savings 20,693 19,440 requirements of a range of different stakeholders including General insurance and health 4,562 5,516 shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Fund management 269 340 In managing capital we seek to: Other business 246 199 1 maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength to Corporate 34 30 support new business growth and satisfy the requirements Total capital employed 25,244 25,067 of our regulators and other stakeholders thus giving both Financed by: Equity shareholders funds 13,035 13,162 our customers and shareholders assurance of our financial Minority interest 4,237 3,080 strength: Direct capital instruments 990 990 optimise our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our Preference shares 200 200 Subordinated debt 4,637 4,606 returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite External debt 852 919 and balancing the requirements of the range of stakeholders: 2 Net internal debt 1,293 2,110 retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, 25,244 25,067 including significant unutilised committed credit facilities and 1.
The corporate net liabilities represent the element of the pension scheme deficit access to a range of capital markets: held centrally.
In addition to our external funding sources, we have certain internal borrowing arrangements allocate capital rigorously across the group, to drive value in place which allow some of the assets that support technical liabilities to be invested in a adding growth in accordance with risk appetite: and pool of central assets for use across the group.
These internal debt balances allow for the capital allocated to business operations to exceed the externally sourced capital resources of declare dividends on a basis judged prudent, while retaining the group.
Net internal debt represents the balance of the amounts due from corporate and capital to support future business growth, using dividend holding entities, less the tangible net assets held by these entities.
Although intra-group in nature, they are included as part of the capital base for the purpose of capital management.
cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the These arrangements arise in relation to the following: 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy stand alone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, Aviva International Insurance AII Ltd acts as both a UK general insurer and as the primary holding company for our foreign subsidiaries.
Internal capital management mechanisms in ratings, liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in place allocate a portion of the total capital of the company to the UK general insurance managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite and the operations.
These mechanisms also allow for some of the assets backing technical liabilities to be made available for use across the group.
Balances in respect of these arrangements requirements of our various stakeholders.
are also treated as internal debt for capital management purposes.
Strategic capital allocation initiatives Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity A number of key strategic initiatives have been delivered in the shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and last quarter of 2009 which have significantly enhanced the borrowings including internal borrowings as described in Groups capital position and financial flexibility.
On 1 October 2009 Aviva announced the completion of At 31 December 2009 we had 25.2 billion 31 December the sale of its Australian life business and wealth management 2008: 25.1 billion of total capital employed in our trading platform.
The total proceeds of the Australian sale were operations, measured on an MCEV basis.
Over the period the 0.4 billion A$0.9 billion.
The sale of the business benefited benefit of operating profits and investment gains have been group IGD by 0.4 billion.
offset by foreign exchange losses and actuarial losses on staff On 3 November 2009 Aviva announced the completion pension schemes.
of the Delta Lloyd initial public offering IPO and the shares In April 2009 we issued a private placement of 245 million commenced trading on the Euronext Amsterdam.
The IPO equivalent of Lower Tier 2 hybrid in a dual tranche transaction raised gross proceeds of 1.00 billion 1.09 billion, including 200 million on 1 April 2009 and a further 50 million on the 10% over-allotment option, and generated an IGD benefit 30 April 2009.
These transactions had a positive impact on of 0.5 billion.
group IGD solvency and economic capital measures.
Following High Court and FSA approval in September, the Financial leverage, the ratio of external senior and deal to complete the reattribution of our inherited estate was subordinated debt to MCEV capital and reserves, was 31.8% concluded on 1 October with 87% of policyholders voting and 31 December 2008: 34.0%.
Fixed charge cover, which 96% of these voting in favour of the offer.
The total value of measures the extent to which external interest costs, including the inherited estate for the reattribution was 1.25 billion, with subordinated debt interest and preference dividends, are 0.5 billion paid from shareholder funds to policyholders.
The covered by MCEV operating profit was 8.5 times 31 December impact of the policyholder incentive payment reduced Group 2008: 9.2 times.
Financial flexibility The groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset holdings of 2.2 billion, the group also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 2.1 billion provided by a range of leading international banks.
62 Aviva plc Capital management continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Regulatory bases Regulatory basis Long-term businesses Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency For our non-participating worldwide life assurance businesses, based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the our capital requirements, expressed as a percentage of the EU regulations established by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
minimum, are set for each business unit as the higher of: These measures are also consolidated under the European The level of capital at which the local regulator is empowered Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital to take action.
adequacy at an aggregate group level, where we have a The capital requirement of the business unit under the regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
groups economic capital requirements: and, This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of The target capital level of the business unit.
regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, The required capital across our life businesses varies between excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life 100% and 325% of EU minimum or equivalent.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European average level of required capital for our non-participating life businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, business, expressed as a percentage of the EU minimum or for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked equivalent solvency margin has decreased to 130% and unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general 31 December 2008: 142%.
insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross These levels of required capital are used in the calculation premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to of the groups embedded value to evaluate the cost of locked in reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
At 31 December 2009 the aggregate regulatory European businesses the US, and Canada a risk charge on requirements based on the EU minimum test amounted to assets and liabilities approach is used.
At this date, the actual net worth held in our long-term business was 9.8 billion Regulatory bases group 31 December 2008: 9.5 billion which represents 159% European Insurance Groups Directive 31 December 2008: 157% of these minimum requirements.
UK Life Other funds business 2009 2008 Regulatory basis UK Life with-profit funds bn bn bn bn The available capital of the with-profit funds is represented by Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital resources 4.9 10.8 15.7 15.5 the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of Less: capital resource requirement 4.9 6.3 11.2 13.5 the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic liabilities for Insurance Groups Directive IGD non-profit policies within the funds, less asset shares excess solvency 4.5 4.5 2.0 aggregated across the with-profit policies and any additional Cover of EU minimum calculated amounts expected at the valuation date to be paid to in-force excluding UK Life funds 1.7 times 1.3 times policyholders in the future in respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
Realistic balance sheet information is The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital shown below for the three main UK with-profit funds: Old solvency surplus has increased by 2.5 billion since With-Profit Sub-Fund OWPSF, New With-Profit Sub-Fund 31 December 2008 to 4.5 billion.
This increase reflects a NWPSF and UK Life and Pensions UKLAP.
These realistic combination of operating and market performance as well as liabilities have been included within the long-term business the benefit of a number of strategic initiatives.
Following provision and the liability for insurance and investment contracts individual guidance from the FSA in 2008 we now recognise on the consolidated IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2009 surpluses in the non-profit funds of our UK life and pensions and 31 December 2008. business which is available for transfer to shareholders of 0.2 billion 31 December 2008 0.4 billion.
The IGD is a pure Estimated Estimated aggregation test with no credit given for the considerable Estimated Estimate realistic Support risk 2 2008 realistic realistic inherited arrangecapital Estimated EEstimated diversification benefits of Aviva.
1 2 5 3 assets liabilities estate ment margin excess eexcess As outlined above, a number of strategic initiatives bn bn bn bn bn bn bn impacting the IGD solvency position were completed during the CGNU Life 0.3 CULAC 0.3 year.
The Delta Lloyd IPO and Australian Life disposal benefited OWPSF 3.0 2.8 0.2 0.1 0.1 solvency by 0.5 billion and 0.4 billion respectively, while the NWPSF 21.2 21.2 1.1 0.5 0.6 4 policyholder incentive payment paid as part of the inherited UKLAP 20.3 18.7 1.6 0.2 1.4 0.5 estate reattribution reduced solvency by 0.5 billion.
Other Aggregate 44.5 42.7 1.8 1.1 0.8 2.1 1.1 material initiatives included a 0.4 billion benefit from central 1.
These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of 0.6 billion 31 December 2008: 0.8 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders and Delta Lloyd hybrid issues and 0.1 billion from the disposal share of future bonuses are 42.1 billion 31 December 2008: 43.2 billion.
These realistic of the Dutch healthcare business.
The IGD position also liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 0.3 billion, benefited from the change in value of non-regulated entities, 2.2 billion and 3.1 billion for OWPSF, NWPSF and UKLAP respectively 31 December 2008: which includes the recognition of intellectual property rights 1.4 billion, 1.5 billion and 4.1 billion.
Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2008 was 0.7 billion, 0.7 billion and and movements in the value of distribution companies.
The 1.2 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and UKLAP respectively.
reintroduction of the scrip scheme, allowing investors the option 3.
The risk capital margin RCM is 3.6 times covered by the inherited estate and support arrangement 31 December 2008: 1.8 times.
of receiving dividends in the form of new Aviva shares, also 4.
The UKLAP fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which has realistic assets and delivered a capital benefit of 0.3 billion over the year.
liabilities of 1.7 billion, and therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
This represents the reattributed estate of 1.1 billion at 31 December 2009 held within the non-profit fund with UKLAP included within other UK life operations.
Performance review 63 Performance review Aviva plc Capital management continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Investment mix horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main against financial and non-financial tests.
with-profit funds at 31 December 2009 was: The financial modelling techniques employed in economic capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
2009 2008 They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of m m different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities Equity 21% 24% appropriately.
These same techniques are employed to enhance Property 12% 12% product pricing and capital allocation processes.
Unlike more Fixed interest 59% 56% traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also Other 8% 8% recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from in- 100% 100% force and new business, allowing for consideration of longerterm value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withvolatility in our risk and capital management processes.
We profit asset shares are 58%% in OWPSF and NWPSF, and 54% continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability in UKLAP.
for all our businesses as part of our development programme to increase the focus on economic capital management.
In Rating agency capital addition we have initiated work on meeting the emerging Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength requirements of the Solvency II framework and external and support access to debt markets as well as providing agencies.
assurance to business partners and policyholders over our ability to service contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have Solvency II solicited relationships with a number of rating agencies.
The 2009 has represented a significant step for Solvency II and agencies generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a the insurance industry.
Since the approval of the Solvency II range of financial factors eg capital strength, gearing, liquidity Directive in May 2009, the focus has been on the development and fixed charge cover ratios and non financial factors eg of the Level 2 implementing measures advice published by the strategy, competitive position, and quality of management.
CEIOPS which fill in the detail under Level 1 and focused on Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models technical issues.
Aviva has been actively participating in the which they use to assess available capital resources against process by providing responses to the CEIOPS as well as capital requirements as a component in their overall criteria participating in the key European industry working groups who for assigning ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity provide the voice of industry in on-going negotiation in Brussels.
position in accordance with our target rating levels is a core The formal CEIOPS consultation process has already closed consideration in all material capital management and capital and the European Commission are now considering the allocation decisions.
wording on the implementing measures that will be finalised by The groups overall financial strength is reflected in our the end of 2010.
Full implementation of Solvency II will be credit ratings.
The groups rating from Standard and Poors required in October 2012. is AAvery strong with a Negative outlook: Aa3 excellent with a Negative outlook from Moody's: and A excellent with a Stable outlook from A M Best.
These ratings continue to reflect our strong competitive position, positive strategic management, strong and diversified underlying earnings profile and robust liquidity position.
Economic capital We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across the group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying the risks to which business units, and the group as a whole, are exposed.
A mixture of scenario based approaches and stochastic models are used to capture market risk, credit risk, insurance risk and operational risk.
Scenarios are specified centrally to provide consistency across businesses and to achieve a minimum standard.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at business unit and group level, we allow for diversification benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions to allow for non-fungibility of capital when appropriate.
This means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
This model is used to support our Individual Capital Assessments ICA which are reported to the FSA for all our UK regulated insurance businesses.
The FSA uses the results of our ICA process when setting target levels of capital for our UK regulated insurance businesses.
In line with FSA requirements, the ICA estimates the capital required to mitigate the risk of insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one-year time 64 Aviva plc Basis of preparation Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Accounting basis of preparation Basis of preparation In addition to presenting our results and financial position on an This review complies with the recommendations of the International Financial Reporting Standards basis, we also use European Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV as an alternative Act 2006 Contents of Directors report: Business review and is performance measure.
Details of the accounting basis of in line with current best practice.
It is addressed to, and written preparation are set out on the following page.
for, the members of Aviva plc with the aim of providing a fair review of our business development, performance and position Forward-looking statements at the current time.
In producing this review, we aim to present This business review contains forward-looking statements a view that is balanced and comprehensive and that is about: consistent with the size and complexity of our business.
The Our future plans review is written in the context of the risks and uncertainties Our current goals facing our business.
We anticipate that the format and content Our expectations of our future financial condition, of the review will evolve over time, along with developments in performance and results our business and the external environment.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and Key performance indicators uncertainty because they relate to future events that are beyond The Companies Act requires that a fair review of the business our control.
For example, certain insurance risk disclosures are contains financial and, where applicable, non-financial key dependent on our choices about assumptions and models, performance indicators KPIs.
We consider that our financial which by their nature are estimates.
As such, actual future gains KPIs are those that communicate to the members the financial and losses could differ materially from those that we have performance and strength of the group as a whole.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ These KPIs comprise: materially from those estimated by the forward-looking Earnings per share International Financial Reporting statements include, but are not limited to: Standards basis Global economic business conditions Proposed ordinary dividend per share and dividend cover Monetary and interest rate policies Operating profit Market Consistent Embedded Value basis Foreign currency exchange rates Operating profit IFRS basis Equity and property prices Worldwide sales The impact of competition, inflation and deflation Return on equity shareholders funds Changes to regulations, taxes and legislation The timing and impact of acquisitions and business Management also use a variety of other performance indicators combinations in relevant industries OPIs in both running and assessing the performance of Natural and other disasters individual business segments and units, rather than the group as Changes to consumer saving and spending habits a whole.
OPIs include measures such as new business margins, Our success in managing the above factors combined operating ratio and underwriting profit.
In addition to reporting on our financial performance, it is Consequently, our actual future financial condition, important that as a forward thinking company we are aware of performance and results could differ materially from the plans, our wider responsibilities and report on the non-financial goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking aspects of our performance.
We consider that our employees statements.
We undertake no obligation to update the forwardand customers are fundamental to the success of our business: looking statements contained in this review or any other as such, they form the basis for our non-financial measures, and forward-looking statements we make.
include: Leadership and employee engagement Customer advocacy Performance review 65 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Accounting basis of preparation Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Longer-term investment return Accounting basis of preparation The long-term nature of most of our operations means that International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS short-term realised and unrealised gains and losses are shown as Our consolidated financial statements are prepared under IFRS, an adjustment to operating profit.
We focus instead on using standards issued by the International Accounting operating profit incorporating a longer-term investment return Standards Board IASB and endorsed by the EU.
Our rates of return that we use for equity and property in fulfilling this legal obligation, the group has also complied with our LTIR methodology are aligned with the rates that we use IFRS as issued by the IASB and applicable at 31 December 2009. under MCEV principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include The financial data contained in the report and accounts has the amortisation of premiums or discounts arising on purchase, been prepared using the groups accounting policies set out on thereby producing an LTIR that is equivalent to the gross pages 130 to 142.
Where applicable, the financial statements redemption yield.
have also been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP on accounting for insurance Critical accounting policies and estimates business issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, the The preparation of financial statements requires the group to most recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions amended in December 2006. that affect items reported in the consolidated income Following a review of our accounting policy for cash and statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other cash equivalents, we have restated the 2007 and 2008 primary statements and notes to the financial statements.
These comparative figures to avoid any ambiguity over the maturity are set out on pages 130 to 142. dates of these financial instruments.
We have also corrected Critical accounting policies some errors made in previous years in reporting pension The major areas of judgement on policy application are obligations in our Dutch subsidiary.
Details are given in considered to be over whether group entities should be Financial statements IFRS Note 2 Presentation changes.
consolidated set out in policy D, on product classification set Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV basis out in policy F and in the classification of financial investments of reporting set out in policy S. We present the results and financial position of our life and Use of estimates related businesses on an MCEV basis, in addition to the IFRS All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current basis.
MCEV methodology represents a more meaningful basis facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge of reporting the value of the groups life and related businesses and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results and the drivers of performance than IFRS methodology.
This can always differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
basis values cashflow from assets consistently with market prices The table below sets out those items that we consider and is consistent with the way pricing is assessed and the particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and business is managed.
assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
The MCEV methodology adopted is in accordance with the MCEV Principles published by the CFO Forum in June 2008, with the exception of the use of an adjusted risk-free yield due to current market conditions for immediate annuities in the UK and Netherlands and for all US contracts.
Under the MCEV methodology, the total profit recognised over the full lifetime of an insurance policy is the same as under the IFRS basis of reporting.
However, the MCEV basis gives a fairer indication of the profitability of business on inception.
Additionally, shareholders funds on an MCEV basis incorporate internally generated additional value of in-force business AVIF, which is excluded for IFRS reporting.
Our incentive schemes and internal management reporting are focused broadly evenly between IFRS and MCEV performance.
These financial statements include supplementary information on MCEV reporting in the Alternative method of reporting long-term business section.
66 Aviva plc Accounting basis of preparation continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Future accounting developments Accounting Item policy We continue to take an active role in the development of new Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F & K accounting standards, via industry forums and working parties, Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N and reviewing and providing comment on proposals from the Fair values of financial investments S IASB.
Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts Impairment of financial investments S continues to be the most significant area of development for Fair value of derivative financial instruments T us, and we continue actively to engage in the debate.
We fully Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W Provisions and contingent liabilities Z support the timely development of a global standard for Pension obligations AA insurance accounting that reflects the economics of our Deferred income taxes AB business, and are working directly and through the CFO Forum of leading European insurers, to achieve this.
While this standard is under development, we will continue to focus on MCEV as the best measure of value for our long-term business.
We continue to monitor other major IASB projects, including financial statement presentation, liabilities, revenue recognition, pensions accounting and fair value measurement.
Corporate responsibility 67 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Corporate responsibility In this section 68 Highlights 68 Strategy and governance 68 Business ethics 68 Our people 70 Community investment 70 Environment 71 Customers 72 Supply chain 72 External benchmarking and recognition 72 Affiliations and engagements 73 Key indicators 74 Accounting for sustainability
