Performance review 19 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Information on the company Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information To manage the composite portfolio of life, general History and development of Aviva insurance and fund management General We are fully committed to maintaining the composite We are a public limited company incorporated under the laws nature of the group.
We firmly believe in the benefits of of England and Wales.
We are one of the worlds leading global life insurance, general insurance and fund management as insurance groups.
We are the fifth largest insurance group in complementary parts of an overall business model that seeks the world, based on gross written premiums for the 2008 year.
to balance cash flow, returns and long-term value creation.
We are one of the top five providers of long-term insurance and savings products in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland and To build a global asset management business that will foster investment performance and create solutions Spain and one of the top 10 providers of long-term insurance and savings products in France, Italy, Hungary and Romania for We have significant asset management functions across the group.
These businesses have historically been managed 2008.
More detail is provided within the operating segment separately and we are now bringing them together in a review later in this section.
Our main activities are the provision global asset management business, Aviva Investors, in order of products and services in relation to long-term insurance and savings, general insurance and fund management.
to capitalise on existing strengths around the world and leverage those strengths in key product and specialist areas.
Our goal is that Aviva Investors will foster investment Our history performance and create solutions under a single brand The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich across the world, with an increased focus on obtaining Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on new external clients.
completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc on 1 July 2002.
To allocate capital rigorously to provide the highest CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both major UK-based sustainable returns for our shareholders insurers operating in the long-term insurance business and Capital management will continue to be a key focus for general insurance markets.
Both companies had long corporate us going forward.
We treat capital as a scarce resource, histories.
CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of and strive to allocate capital to provide the highest Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
Hand in Hand, sustainable returns for shareholders.
We continuously which was incorporated in 1696, was acquired by Commercial seek improvements in capital structure and efficiency.
Union in 1905, which itself was incorporated in 1861.
General To increase our customer reach through better Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Norwich Union plc was understanding customer needs founded as a mutual society in 1797 and operated as such until We sell our products in 28 countries in the way that our 1997, when Norwich Union plc demutualised and became an customers choose to buy them.
We will continue looking English public limited company.
for the right distribution in the right markets.
We believe Between 2000 and 2002 we actively withdrew from lines we can get closer to our customers through better of business and markets that did not offer the potential for understanding their needs, which would further our goal to market-leading positions or superior returns, or did not otherwise generate profitable sales, by providing products and services meet our strategic objectives, principally through the disposal that customers want at a fair price.
of property and casualty businesses in the UK London Market, To boost productivity to increase our competitiveness, the US, Australia, New Zealand and certain European countries.
improve our services and deliver higher value to Since 2002, we have grown in part through carefully our customers selected acquisitions, in particular the acquisitions of RAC We constantly look for ways to boost our productivity, in 2005 and AmerUs in 2006. to support our sustainable growth, increase our During 2009, we disposed of our long-term and savings competitiveness, improve our services and deliver higher and wealth management in Australia and through an IPO we value to our customers.
Working together as One Aviva, we sold approximately 42% of our Dutch business, Delta Lloyd.
deliver operational excellence through shared services, shared As at 1 January 2010, we have integrated our life, general knowledge, rationalised systems and effective outsourcing.
insurance and health businesses in the UK under one CEO.
On 5 January 2010, we announced the acquisition of River Our business Road Asset Management, a US equity manager, to support Overview the expansion of Aviva Investors business.
Our principal activity is the provision of financial products and Further details of recent acquisitions and disposals can services, focused on the following lines of business: long-term be found in the section Financial statements IFRS Note 3 insurance and savings business, fund management and general Subsidiaries.
Our business is managed on a geographic basis through Business overview a regional management structure based on four regions, UK, Our aims and strategy Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
The four regions In support of our purpose and our One Aviva, Twice the Value function as six operating segments as both the UK and Europe vision, Aviva provides a composite portfolio of life and pensions, regions are split into two operating segments.
Due to the size general insurance, health insurance and asset management of the UK region it is split into the UK Life and UK General products through a multi-channel distribution approach.
Insurance segments, which undertake long-term insurance and Working together across regions under one Aviva brand savings business and general insurance respectively.
In Europe, provides greater financial stability and flexibility through Delta Lloyd is managed separately from the other European diversification and a reduced reliance on any one channel, businesses: therefore the region is split into Aviva Europe and product, country or customer group.
In summary our five Delta Lloyd operating segments.
strategic priorities are: Aviva Investors, our fund management business and sixth operating segment, operates across all four regions providing 20 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 fund management services to third-party investors and to our Bonds and savings accumulation products with single or long-term insurance business and general insurance operations.
regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment Our geographic operating segments offer the following lines returns.
Our product ranges include single premium of business to a greater or lesser extent: investment bonds, regular premium savings plans, mortgage endowment products and funding agreements.
Long-term insurance and savings business Other, which includes equity release and structured settlements.
Long-term insurance and savings business accounted for over Investment sales comprise of retail sales of mutual fund type 80% of our total business based on sales for the year ended products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts 31 December 2009.
We reported total long-term insurance and ISAs and Open Ended Investment Companies OEICs.
savings new business sales of 32.0 billion and investment sales of 3.9 billion for the year ended 31 December 2009.
Our focus Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a remains on growing our business profitably and improving our discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right operational efficiency so that we can fully benefit as our major to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed markets return to economic growth.
These are referred to as participating contacts.
Market position General insurance and health In the UK we have a market share of 10% based on annual General insurance and health insurance together accounted for premium equivalent APE according to the Association of British 20% of our total sales for the year ended 31 December 2009.
APE is a recognised sales measure in In the year ended 31 December 2009, we reported general the UK and is the total of new annual premiums plus 10% of and health insurance net written premiums of 9.2 billion.
Long-term insurance and savings products in the UK represented 22% of our worldwide sales for the year Market position ended 31 December 2009.
We are the leading general insurer in the UK and Ireland based Long-term insurance products from our European on gross written premiums for the year ended 31 December businesses excluding the UK represented 42% of total group 2008 and we are one of the top five general insurers in Canada worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December 2009. and the Netherlands, as based on gross written premiums for In North America the purchase of AmerUs in the United the year ended 31 December 2008.
The group has other States was completed on 15 November 2006 for consideration European general insurance operations in France, Italy, Poland of 1.7 billion.
This operation has been rebranded to trade as and Turkey, and in Asia Pacific we sell general insurance and Aviva USA and is ranked first in both fixed indexed life and health products in Malaysia, Singapore and Sri Lanka.
fixed indexed annuity products in 2008, according to LIMRA In the year ended 31 December 2009, 47% of our total and AnnuitySpecs.
general insurance and health business was written in the UK.
In the Asia Pacific region we operate in eight countries Brands and Products with businesses at different stages of development.
Our general insurance business currently operates under Brands and products different brand names, with Aviva and the RAC in the UK, Delta In the UK we operated under the Norwich Union brand until Lloyd in the Netherlands and Commercial Union Aviva in Poland.
June 2009, when Norwich Union became Aviva.
Following the Our other general insurance operations in Europe, Canada and rebrand of Hibernian Aviva in Ireland to Aviva on 11 January Asia Pacific operate under the Aviva brand.
During 2010, the 2010, we operate under the brand name Aviva throughout business in Poland will complete its transition across to the Aviva Europe and the rest of the world, except in Poland and the brand as part of a global branding exercise.
RAC in the UK and Netherlands, where we operate under the names Aviva Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands will remain unchanged.
Commercial Union and Delta Lloyd, respectively.
The business Our general insurance business concentrates on personal in Poland will fully adopt the Aviva name in June 2010.
The lines and commercial lines insurance through the provision of brand in the Netherlands, Delta Lloyd, will remain unchanged.
motor, household, travel, creditor, commercial liability and Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a commercial property coverage.
Our health insurance business broad range of life insurance and asset accumulation products.
concentrates on private health insurance, income protection Our products are split into the following categories: and personal accident insurance, as well as a range of corporate Pensions a means of providing income in retirement for an healthcare products.
individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our pension Distribution products include personal and group pensions, stakeholder We have various distribution agreements with bancassurance pensions and income drawdown.
partners and joint ventures across many markets in which we Annuities a type of policy that pays out regular amounts operate.
The agreements contain similar terms and depending of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a on our line of business in that market offer long-term insurance persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future products, general insurance and health products, asset date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an management services or a combination thereof.
The agreements individual and his or her dependents or on a bulk purchase have a defined contract term, frequently with the option to basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset extend.
In return for offering our products to their customers, accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide the bank or joint venture partners receive a commission as a benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked percentage of sales and in some cases achieve extra commission or index-linked.
if agreed target levels of sales are met.
Certain agreements have Protection an insurance contract that protects the a profit sharing element based on a predetermined percentage.
policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss The success of the agreement is regularly monitored against on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term certain performance indicators which are those typically used assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and by the management of the business.
In some cases, if the critical illness cover.
agreed targets are not met, the terms of the contract can be renegotiated, typically with respect to the level of commission Performance review 21 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information or profit sharing percentage.
Under joint venture agreements, Our core strategy is to leverage our extensive distribution the costs of running the venture are often split between the network and customer base to increase profits in a mature but partners.
We seek to outperform the UK market while delivering enhanced margins.
To achieve this, our strategy Fund management includes the rigorous use of capital, further improving customer The fund management businesses manage the funds of Avivas retention, reducing new business acquisition costs while general insurance and long-term insurance and savings boosting productivity, all of which will drive greater value for operations and provide investment management for institutional shareholders.
pension funds, as well as developing and selling retail We aim to maintain market leadership through balanced investment products.
Our main brand for fund management is distribution and broad product mix and the simplification of Aviva Investors.
The main fund management operations are in processes, services and costs.
the UK, France, the Netherlands, Ireland, the US and Australia.
Market and competition All sales of retail fund management products are included in our The UK long-term insurance market is highly competitive.
long-term insurance and savings business sales.
However, there is a potential annual savings gap of some Market position 30 billion, the difference between what an individual saves Aviva Investors is ranked twenty fourth globally and third based today, and what they need to save in order to pay for a in the UK by assets under management, according to Cerulli comfortable standard of living in retirement, as well as a Associates December 2008 ranking of asset managers by assets potential protection gap of 2.3 trillion, which is the difference under management.
Aviva Investors operates under a single between the life insurance and financial protection cover an brand in 15 countries across our regions of the UK, Europe, individual has and the amount they need to meet their needs, North America and Asia Pacific.
The other fund management according to the ABI and Swiss Re respectively.
We believe these businesses of Aviva comprise our collective investment business shortfalls offer significant opportunities for long-term insurance with the Royal Bank of Scotland Group in the UK, Delta Lloyd in companies within this market.
the Netherlands and our Navigator wrap administration business In 2009 the long-term insurance and savings markets have in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Total worldwide funds managed continued to be affected by the turbulent economic conditions, by Aviva managers at 31 December 2009 was 250 billion, the the slowdown in the housing market and regulatory impacts, substantial majority of which currently relates to Avivas such as the ban on the sale of single premium payment insurance and savings operations.
We consider our main competitors to be Prudential, Legal & Brands and products General, AEGON, Standard Life and Lloyds Banking Group.
The Our business in the UK manages investments including equities, principal competitive factors for our life insurance business in fixed income, property, hedge fund and socially responsible the UK are: investments SRIs on behalf of institutional, pension fund Financial strength and ratings and retail clients.
We also sell retail ISAs, unit trusts, OEICs and Brand strength and customer advocacy structured products under the Aviva Investors and the Royal Focus on customer and quality of service Bank of Scotland Group RBSG brands.
Range of product lines and quality of products on offer Operating segments Strength of distribution channels Each operating segment has a member of our executive Pricing management team who is responsible for it and who is Investment management performance accountable to the group chief executive for the operating Products performance of their segment.
The full membership of our We provide an extensive product range in the UK that covers executive management team is set out on page 82.
This pensions, annuities, protection, bonds and savings and equity structure for our operating segments is intended to ensure release products, as well as investment products.
We hold the Groups ability to take advantage of market opportunities, strong positions in each of our key markets of savings, improve speed of response, eliminate duplication of effort, protection, and annuity products based on APE in 2009 and encourage the sharing of best practice in the interests according to ABI returns.
of our customers and shareholders, while providing We write both non-profit and with-profit business.
Non-profit business means that shareholders retain 100% of the distributed profits.
With-profit business means that United Kingdom Aviva Life policyholders are entitled to at least 90% of the distributed Business overview and strategy profits, with shareholders receiving the balance.
Our UK life insurance business is a leading long-term insurance The with-profit products share profits and losses of the and savings provider in the UK with a market share of 10% with-profit fund with its investors.
This is achieved through a based on 2009 ABI returns.
Our main operations are based system of bonuses.
In deciding the regular bonuses Aviva aims in York though we have a significant presence in Norwich, to smooth the return of the policyholders plan.
As bonuses Eastleigh, Bristol and Sheffield.
We also have outsourcing are added to the plan, valuable guarantees build up.
These relationships with a number of partners including Swiss Re, guarantees are unique to with-profits investments.
At the close Scottish Friendly and International Financial Data Services of the plan the investor receives a terminal bonus based on the IFDS in the UK, and WNS in India.
We employ over 9,000 performance of the fund.
people and have more than seven million customers as at We provide a number of traditional life insurance products 31 December 2009. including level-term, decreasing-term and guaranteed whole We believe that we provide a broad product offering, with life insurance, guaranteed lifelong protection plans and critical a wide distribution reach throughout the UK.
We identify brand, illness cover products.
financial strength, with-profits performance, investment performance and rates on protection products as our key strengths.
22 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment Range and quality of products bonds, funds, base rate trackers, capital protected plan and Access to distribution with-profits products.
Pricing and underwriting discipline The pensions and retirement products we offer include Brand association stakeholder, personal pensions, equity release, annuities, Customer satisfaction, claims handling income drawdown and with-profits products.
Our annuity Cost management offerings include immediate life, enhanced, and with-profit Products pension annuities.
We provide a range of general insurance products focused on personal and commercial customers.
We held top one or two Distribution We are a leading provider in the UK financial adviser market positions in all our major classes of business for 2008, according and also have a successful joint venture with the Royal Bank of to Datamonitor.
Our general insurance business mix is Scotland Group, strong relationships with a number of banks approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
and building societies, distribution deals with the Co-operative Our general insurance products include personal motor, Insurance Society and the Post Office, and growing corporate home, travel insurance, payment protection, commercial motor, and direct channels.
commercial property, and commercial liability insurance.
The majority of our sales are through independent financial We also offer a range of breakdown cover through the RAC.
This is particularly the case for our savings and Our personal motor insurance product range includes cars, investment products as customers seek advice due to the motorcycles and vans.
For businesses we offer cover for fleets complex nature of the products, the regulation surrounding and commercial vehicles.
them and the need for these products to meet the individual Our home insurance products include building and contents circumstances of the customer.
insurance and home emergency cover.
Our commercial products focus on insurance for small to United Kingdom Aviva General Insurance medium enterprises and, from 2010, we plan to expand our product range in the larger UK corporate risk market.
Business overview and strategy Our UK general insurance business currently operates in the Distribution UK through two major brands, Aviva which was changed from We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products Norwich Union in June 2009 and the RAC.
The combined are sold directly to customers over the phone and through business was the leading general insurer in the UK for 2008, our website www.
co. uk, via brokers, through over 100 with a market share of 13% 2007: 14% according to corporate partnerships and our RAC Insurance offering is also Datamonitor.
We focus on personal and commercial insurance available through price comparison sites.
For commercial and are also a leading provider of roadside assistance through insurance, we focus on broker distribution and believe that the RAC, as voted by the JD Power survey since 2006.
We operate independent brokers remain the best source of the advice from a number of locations in the UK, India and Sri Lanka.
We aim to maintain our market leading position through underwriting excellence and product and distribution leadership.
Europe Our strategy is to focus on insurance fundamentals to maximise Regional overview and strategy returns through the insurance cycle.
We seek to control the Aviva operates in 15 countries across Europe excluding the impact of claims inflation, provide excellent customer service UK offering a range of life, pensions and insurance products and maintain disciplined underwriting and pricing.
To this end, distributed through a wide range of channels.
We are one of we are nearing completion of the process to transform our the leading providers of life and pension products in Europe, customer service centres and simplify our policy range.
based on 2007 gross written premiums according to the Market and competition Comit Europen des Assurances CEA, a European insurance The UK is the third largest insurance market in the world and reinsurance federation.
according to the ABI based on data for 2008.
In 2008, the top In 2009, we announced a clear two-part strategy to exploit four companies had approximately 38% 2007: 35% of the the considerable opportunities in Europe.
general insurance market share, based on Datamonitor figures Aviva Europe for gross written premiums.
In 2009 we announced a new strategy to make a Quantum Insurance profits in the UK general insurance market are Leap in performance by integrating the operations of 12 cyclical in nature and after a lengthy period of soft market previously separate businesses excluding the operations of conditions in commercial lines, characterised by high Delta Lloyd, under a single pan-European executive team.
competition and falling prices, we have seen some tentative The Quantum Leap transformation plan will build a pansigns of hardening since late 2008.
There are also signs of European approach to operations, governance and product market rating increases in personal lines, particularly within development.
Distribution has been centralised into two panpersonal motor.
European channels, bancassurance and retail, allowing us to In 2009, we believe the proportion of customers buying take advantage of the significant growth potential in Europe, insurance online has continued to increase and this is now a build competitive advantage and shorten time to market.
In particular we believe that internet A single holding company has been established in Ireland price comparison sites for personal motor and homeowner which, subject to regulatory approval, will deliver economic, insurance have again grown their market share as customers operational and regulatory benefits to Aviva.
Delta Lloyd We consider our main competitors to be RBS, RSA, AXA, As a result of the IPO, the strategic management of our Zurich, Lloyds Banking Group, Allianz, and Admiral Group.
The investment in Delta Lloyd is now managed independently from principal competitive factors for our general insurance business our other operations.
in the UK are: Performance review 23 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Delta Lloyd is one of the top five financial services providers development of each market.
Our competitors comprise a in the Netherlands, with a significant operation in Belgium.
In mixture of large pan-European insurers, such as Allianz and November 2009, Aviva successfully completed an IPO of Delta AXA, and local insurers, such as Powszechy Zaxlad Ubezpieczan Lloyd which is now listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam.
Aviva PZU in Poland and CNP Assurances CNP in France.
Across the retains 58.3% of the ordinary share capital and 54.0% of the region consolidation is low: based on total insurance premiums voting rights in Delta Lloyd after having raised 1 billion of gross from the CEA the top five insurers hold only 35% of the disposal proceeds.
Its listing enables Delta Lloyd to strengthen market.
The CEA data shows that Aviva has a 4.8% share of its profile and brand, as well as more effectively pursue its the market including UK, excluding business written outside growth strategy in the Netherlands and Belgium, in particular, of Europe, non primary insurance and inaccessible markets ahead of anticipated sector consolidation in those countries.
eg compulsory healthcare which makes us the fourth largest.
The largest insurers are Allianz, Generali and AXA.
If the UK Aviva Europe is excluded, Avivas market share on the same basis is 4.1%.
As the leading bancassurer in Europe we have sustained our We consider our competitive factors in the European region performance by leveraging our unique bancassurance model, with such factors to a greater and lesser extent for mature and serving customers through our 50 bancassurance agreements.
rapidly developing markets to be: We also have a significant retail franchise, operating through Bancassurance partnerships more than 8,000 brokers and agents, and a direct sales force Existing retail franchise of over 10,000 consultants.
Pan-European distribution model Our pan-European distribution model aims to exploit our Position in large emerging markets Russia, Poland, Turkey market leading bancassurance model by leveraging existing Customer-centric range of products and services banking relationships, by expanding our product mix into higher Global scale margin products such as protection and general insurance and Depth of technical expertise across region and ability to by reducing the cost per policy through the roll out of a pantransfer to developing business units European shared platform.
The shared platform will also give us Europe-wide approach to distribution management, the ability to meet the demands of each prospective partners product development and support functions requirements, in a rapid and efficient way, creating value for Pricing both Aviva and our partner.
Brand strength and customer advocacy We are also building a single retail operating model with Focus on customer and quality of service common tools and methods supported by centralised sales Financial strength and ratings support and a pan-European customer retention centre of Investment management performance excellence.
This strategy will enable us to increase our sales force productivity, improve customer retention and create France economies of scale through pan-European retail cost Business overview and strategy Aviva France is one of the top 10 long-term insurance and management.
Our Aviva Europe business has substantial operations in savings businesses in France based on 2008 new business premiums, according to LArgus fide LAssurance.
We offer a France, Ireland, Italy, Poland and Spain, with significant longterm insurance businesses.
Following early success in Poland, range of long-term insurance and savings products, primarily for individuals, which focus on the unit-linked market.
We we have been building our long-term insurance and savings business in developing markets in Central and Eastern Europe, have a partnership with the Association Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER, which is the largest retirement savings and now have businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Lithuania which for financial reporting purposes we include in association in France.
Aviva France operates through two main companies: Aviva Vie and Aviva Direct.
Poland, Romania, Russia, Turkey and a distribution capability in Slovakia which for financial reporting purposes we include Our general insurance business in France has a 2.3% share of the market as based on 2008 premium income according to in Hungary.
In addition, we have large general insurance businesses LArgus fide LAssurance.
We predominantly sell personal and small commercial lines insurance products through an agent in Ireland and France, as well as developing general insurance businesses in Italy, Poland and Turkey.
Fund management network and our direct insurer, Eurofil.
We believe Eurofil is the second-largest direct sales insurer in France, based on operations exist in France, Ireland, Poland and Romania.
The fund management operations in France, Ireland and Romania total written premiums, and it sells motor, home and health insurance.
Direct sales to private customers are conducted are managed by Aviva Investors, and since 1 January 2010 the fund management operation in Poland has transferred to Aviva through the internet and by telephone.
Our strategy for Aviva France is to continue the Investors.
Since January 2010, Aviva Europe has also had diversification and growth of our business and to maintain our profitability at a high level.
We seek to accomplish these goals responsibility for developing Avivas business interests in the Middle East, based in the United Arab Emirates.
through our distribution expertise, innovation of products and services, greater communication and brand visibility.
Market and competition The region is split between mature Western European markets Market We believe that the long-term insurance and savings market with high wealth and insurance penetration and the developing in France has long-term growth potential due to the ageing markets of Central and Eastern Europe.
We expect to see population and need for private pensions.
We believe that growth of the European long-term insurance and savings market above GDP growth over the next decade as a result the recent volatility in the market has affected sales as some consumers are lacking confidence in long-term investments, of a growing ageing population and the developing markets preferring safer forms of investment while they await a recovery in the Central and Eastern Europe region.
Competitive intensity and market consolidation varies across the region depending on the size and stage of 24 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Recent changes in the inheritance tax system have eroded the Our strategy in our life business in Ireland is to maximise market long-term insurance tax advantages compared to other asset opportunities through re-energising the broker distribution accumulation businesses, which has impacted our individual channel and pushing forward new initiatives with our single premium savings product and undertakings for collective bancassurance partner Allied Irish Banks plc AIB.
This includes investment in transferable securities UCITS.
developing products with attractive safety features to meet We believe that the general insurance market in France is customer needs when investment markets are more volatile.
mature, showing signs of saturation and increased competition.
In our general insurance business we aim to take advantage In this market we aim to offer competitive pricing and a wide of opportunities to grow our business through building range of products and services.
innovative products, increasing scale and exploiting distribution advantages.
Products In May 2008 we acquired 70% of VIVAS Health now Aviva France long-term insurance and savings business sells renamed Aviva.
We believe that this initiative presents mainly protection and bonds and savings products.
These significant growth opportunities in a new market sector and include protection and unit-linked and with profits savings extends our existing partnership with AIB who own the products.
We are the sole distributor of AFER products, remaining 30% of this company.
which includes unit linked and with-profits products.
With profits savings products are traditional savings Market products with an agreed duration, a minimum guaranteed The life insurance market in Ireland is largely consolidated with credit rate and a profit sharing mechanism to pass part of the approximately 71% of the market share being held by the top excess return to policyholders.
Unit-linked savings products three providers, including Aviva, according to a report by IFF return all investment returns earned on policyholder assets based on 2008 gross written premiums.
Price competition in directly back to the policyholder.
the market continues to increase, with focus increasingly on Aviva Frances general insurance business sells personal market share.
We believe that customers have moved away and small commercial insurance including motor, home, from traditional life products in Ireland because of volatility in commercial, agricultural and construction products, as well the stock markets and a slowdown in the housing market in as health insurance.
We believe that the general insurance market in Ireland Distribution continues to be very competitive for both personal and Aviva France sells products through a complete range of commercial lines business and there is continued downward distribution channels, including approximately 1,800 branch pressure on premium rates.
staff, 400 insurance advisers, more than 1,000 active partner brokers, as well as Aviva Assurances 875-member network.
Products It has partnerships with AFER, the Union Financire fide Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a France UFF network of financial advisers, Mdric, and a comprehensive range of protection, bonds and savings and bancassurance partnership with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary pension products.
The protection products include single, of Socit Gnrale, which gives Aviva access to 1.4 million dual and joint life insurance, mortgage protection, specified customers through approximately 780 branches as at illness and guaranteed whole life cover products.
We also have direct sales to private range covers retirement and investment products including customers through the internet and by telephone.
government promoted personal retirement savings account AFER is a market reference savings association, which we PRSA schemes.
believe has strong customer loyalty.
AFER products are sold Our general insurance and health businesses provide a through Epargne Actuelle, an Aviva Vie network and other wide range of products including property, motor, travel, farm brokers and makes up approximately 53% of our total French and business insurance.
Our motor business is more focused life sales in 2009. on personal lines, while our property business is primarily We also have a joint venture with Crdit du Nord called commercial lines.
We have exclusive rights to distribute Antarius Distribution branded life products, which include protection, and unit-linked Aviva has a wide range of distribution channels in the Irish bonds and savings products, through Crdit du Nord bank market.
Customers can purchase our products through branches.
intermediary channels such as brokers, corporate partners and through retail channels including call centres, a nationwide Ireland branch network and the internet.
Business overview and strategy Our long-term insurance and savings products are Our recently rebranded business in Ireland is one of the distributed through a broker network and our bancassurance countrys leading multi-line insurers with more than one million partnership with AIB.
This partnership gives us access to more customers.
As the initial part of the move to a global Aviva than 280 branches.
We also provide branded products for a brand, the business was renamed Hibernian Aviva in early number of financial institutions.
2009 and from 11 January 2010 has traded as Aviva Ireland.
The majority of our general insurance business is sold It provides long-term insurance and savings products, asset through brokers, with an increasing proportion offered by management which is managed by Aviva Investors, general direct and corporate partners.
insurance and health insurance products.
We had a 16.7% share of the Irish long-term insurance and savings market in 2008 based on gross written premiums according to the Irish Insurance Federation IIF, and were the third largest life and pension provider in Ireland.
Our general insurance business is the largest in Ireland, with a market share of 20% in 2008 according to the IIF.
Performance review 25 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Italy Distribution Business overview and strategy Our products are distributed principally through bancassurance Aviva Italy is the countrys seventh-largest life insurer, with a partnerships with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Italiana market share of 5% in terms of 2008 gross written premiums Group BPI, Banca Popolari Unite BPU and Unione di Banche according to Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici Italiana UBI.
Our partnership with Banca Delle Marche ended in ANIA and has over 1.3 million customers.
These partnerships give us access to more than in Banca Network Investimenti, a 900-member financial adviser 6,200 branches and additionally we also have 650 insurance network.
Aviva is the 13th largest general insurance company in agents and access to approximately 5,800 sales advisers.
Italy with a market share of 1% according to the Associazione In December 2007, Aviva Italy entered into an exclusive Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA.
long-term partnership with Banco Popolare and acquired a 50% Our strategy is to continue to work with our partners on interest in Avipop Assicurazioni, a general insurance company, new products, suited to the current markets, to develop our for a total consideration of 188 million.
This replaced our bancassurance relationships and to expand our customer previous agreement with BPI to distribute long-term insurance reach, through customer penetration and expanding our and savings products.
In 2007, we also purchased, together with other investors, a stake in Banca Network Investimenti, a 900-member financial Market adviser network, from BPI.
We believe that this network will In the Italian life market, large groups dominate the market, further extend and diversify our distribution reach in the market with the top four providers writing more than 50% of the for long-term insurance and savings business.
life premium income in 2007 according to AXCO Insurance In 2008, we acquired 50% plus one share in UBI Information Services.
While the market has been reasonably Assicurazioni Vita S. p. A. UBI Vita.
UBI Vita distributes life stable over the last five years, it shrank in both 2007 and 2008 insurance products through Banca Popolare di Ancona and by 11.2% and 11.7% respectively, with total market premiums other channels and further expands our distribution capability at about 55 billion for the year, according to ANIA.
In the Italian market, we believe that many consumers We distribute general insurance products primarily prefer investment products from well established long-term through agents and brokers, with a growing proportion insurance companies as long-term savings vehicles.
We also of bancassurance sales.
think that consumers prefer developing a personal relationship with the bank distributing products through one-to-one Poland including Lithuania contact.
Internet and telephone channels are not widely used Business overview and strategy in Italy.
Our operations in Poland and Lithuania provide long-term In the last few years the Italian government has introduced insurance and savings products.
Our businesses have a 4,200 legislation to break the exclusive relationship between general member direct sales force, with 66 sales offices across the insurance companies and their tied agents and therefore widening country as at 31 December 2009.
Completing the move to the availability of general insurance products from different insurers.
a global brand, our Polish business, currently known as This has opened up the general insurance marketplace and Aviva Commercial Union, will commence trading as Aviva increased competition from different channels.
Products Our Polish life operation is the second-largest overall life Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide insurer, with a market share of 10% based on total premium range of products covering protection, bonds and savings and income in 2008 according to the Polish Financial Supervision pensions.
The largest segment is single and regular premium Authority KNF.
It has more than 900,000 individual and group savings and investment products.
These include unit-linked customers and manages over 2.5 billion of customers' assets.
policies linked to a range of investment funds and profit-sharing The pension business has been leading the second-pillar pension policies where there is a minimum annual return credited to fund market since its launch in 1999, with a market share the policy, with the potential for an additional bonus.
Also we of around 26% and almost 3 million customers and over provide index-linked products where there is typically some 9.8 billion of assets under management, according to KNF.
protection of capital at the end of the policy term and a pay-out Second pillar pension funds are those privately managed, linked to the performance of an index or basket of shares.
first pillar are the pay-as-you-go state pensions and third A growing area of the market is credit protection insurance, pillar are voluntary contributions.
where protection on death and disability is provided for mortgages Our long-term insurance strategy is to expand our and credit loans.
Individual and group pension plans are also distribution network, particularly in the direct channel, and to available and this part of the market is expected to grow in the also develop other alternative points of contact for potential long-term given the ageing population and government reforms clients, for example, bancassurance.
We seek to capitalise to reduce the cost of state retirement provision.
on our new product launches and maximise cross-selling Our general insurance business in Italy mainly provides opportunities.
Our product strategy for pensions is to retain our motor and home insurance products to individuals, as well as status as the market leader in terms of customers and assets.
small commercial risk insurance, including marine, to businesses.
Our general insurance business in Poland commenced in For reporting purposes the Italian general insurance business is 1997 and continues to develop.
In 2007 we launched a direct shown within Other Europe in the general insurance segment.
motor insurance product in order to pursue further potential for growth in this dynamic market.
For reporting purposes the general insurance business is shown within Other Europe in the general insurance segment.
26 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Market to Investogacin Cooperativa entre Entidades Aseguradoras y The Polish market for protection products has seen significant Fondos fide Pensiones ICEA.
growth since 1999, although penetration rates remain relatively In February 2008, we exercised an option to acquire an low according to our analysis of KNF statistics.
Insurance additional 45% shareholding in our joint venture with the companies in Poland are either state-owned or private, with the Spanish savings bank Caja fide Ahorros fide Murcia, Cajamurcia public sector companies continuing to have a strong share of Vida, which brings our total shareholding to 50% and enables the market.
The private companies are often under the control the migration of the majority of the Cajamurcia protection of international insurers.
products to this joint venture company.
The new company In 1999, Poland launched a comprehensive reform of its distributes long-term insurance and savings products via state pension system and created privately managed funds.
This Cajamurcias network of over 400 branches.
enabled private companies to offer pension products and made Our strategy in Spain is to further develop our it obligatory for all employees under 30 years of age to join one bancassurance relationships and attract new partners if the of the competing pension funds.
We hope to develop our general insurance In 2009 the Polish government agreed further pension offerings through our existing partnerships.
Overall, we want to legislation changes which restrict the fees that pension fund continue to be customer-focused, react quickly to market trends management companies can charge.
This is effective from and maximise the sales of our core products, such as pensions 1 January 2010. and savings.
The general insurance market is continuing to grow, Market although at a slower rate than the long-term insurance and Spains financial market has a strong banking tradition, and as savings market.
The general insurance market is mainly driven such customers are accustomed to receiving advice through by the motor insurance market.
Distribution has been traditional banking channels.
We believe that customers have a dominated by direct sales force and agents, however direct high level of financial understanding and require comprehensive sales are now growing.
advice on products and services.
The top positions in the longProducts term insurance market are dominated by bank-owned or bankOur life business in Poland provides a broad range of protection, insurer joint ventures, with the overall bancassurance channel annuities and bonds and savings products.
For individuals it accounting for more than 70% of new business premiums in offers unit-linked life policies, annuities, single premium savings 2007 in the Spanish life insurance market according to ICEA.
and, for institutions, group life insurance and employee pension Products programmes, which are both unit-linked products.
We offer a wide range of bonds and savings, and protection Our pension business offers a standard product for all products.
Investment products include both unit linked and customers as part of the privately managed pensions market.
traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to We offer general insurance products to both institutions increase the policy return.
Our traditional plans include savings and individuals in Poland.
For institutions we offer selected schemes and income products.
Pension savings products have commercial lines risks such as fire and loss-of-profit insurance, valuable tax advantages each year for such contributions within technical insurance, insurance against loss of property during permitted limits and we offer a flexible range of individual and transportation, civil liability insurance and commercial health group plans with alternative investment choices.
For individuals we offer home, accident and travel protection products, covering both mortgages and credit loans insurance, which are primarily sold by tied agents, whilst motor typically providing cover for the family in the event of death or insurance is sold through our direct operation.
Distribution The PIAS pension product was launched in 2007: this is a The direct sales force is the main distribution channel for most savings contract with attractive tax benefits if the policy remains of the Poland group and is made up of 4,200 tied insurance in force for at least 10 years and if an annuity is purchased at agents whose work is co-ordinated by a network of our sales the maturity of the product.
offices run by sales managers.
Distribution In 2008 we increased the productivity and size of our direct Through bancassurance partnerships we have established sales force and entered a joint venture with Bank Zachodni WBK subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks a subsidiary of AIB to sell both life and general insurance as set out below: products through the banks network of over 500 branches.
Aseval in conjunction with Bancaja since 2000 We also co-operate with independent insurance agencies Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001 and brokers.
We believe that these insurance brokers play a key Bia Galicia in conjunction with Caixa Galicia since 2001 role in selling commercial lines general insurance.
Our mutual Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa funds are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual since 2001 products are supported by call centre and website sales.
General Vida in conjunction with Caja fide Granada since 2002 Spain Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia since 2007 Business overview and strategy Aviva Spain sells long-term insurance and savings, health and Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through accident insurance in Spain through a bancassurance network professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and based on joint ventures with six banks Bancaja, Caja Espaa, brokers and a direct sales force, supported by a branch office Caixa Galicia, Unicaja, Caja fide Granada and Cajamurcia and network and call centres.
through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, the wholly owned Aviva branded long-term insurance company.
Aviva Spain is the countrys fifth-largest long-term insurer by gross written premiums with a market share of 6% in 2009 according Performance review 27 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Other Europe Products Business overview and strategy Aviva Turkeys products include unit-linked pensions, Avivas other European businesses are in Turkey, the Czech supplemented by protection insurance and other savings Republic, Hungary, Romania, Russia and Slovakia.
products, which are aimed at high-net-worth customers and In 2007, our Turkish long-term insurance and savings leading national and multinational corporations.
The general business merged with Ak Emeklilik, the long-term insurance and insurance segment offers motor, household, fire, marine, savings company of Sabanc Holdings, to form a joint venture personal accident, travel and liability insurance.
The new company merged on 31 October Our Czech Republic business offers individual unit-linked 2007 to become the largest pensions provider in the market, savings, protection insurance, term insurance, other savings with a market share of 22% in 2008 according to the Turkish products, group life schemes for corporate clients and credit Pensions Monitoring Centre, and the fourth largest life insurer insurance for our own bancassurance partners.
with a market share of 6% in 2009 according to the Association In Hungary, we offer flexible unit-linked and traditional life of Insurance and Reinsurance Companies of Turkey.
Aviva also acts as a distributor for various banking merger, AvivaSA has a bancassurance agreement with Akbank products, such as mortgage loans and current accounts, as well T. A. S. Akbank, Turkeys second largest privately-owned as selling a combined product.
bank based on total assets according to the Banks Association In Romania, we provide traditional life insurance products of Turkey.
and started to offer pension products to customers following In the Czech Republic we are the 13th largest life insurer, government reforms introducing compulsory pensions in 2008. with a 1.6% market share in 2008 according to the Czech In Russia, we focus on individual accident insurance, Insurance Association.
We have more than 46,000 customers group non-state pensions, accident and sickness insurance.
Distribution In Hungary, we are the sixth largest life insurance business, In Turkey, we have a multi-channel distribution strategy through measured by 2008 gross written premiums, with an 8% market brokers, agencies, a direct sales force, corporate sales and share, according to the Association of Hungarian Insurers.
We bancassurance through an agreement with Akbank, which have a tied agent sales force consisting of more than 600 gives us access to their approximate six million retail customers agents and 22 agencies nationwide.
Our general insurance business is Aviva Romania is the eighth largest life insurer as measured predominantly sold through agents, with the remainder coming by premium income in 2008 according to the local insurance through direct sales, a call centre and bank agents.
We were also the fourth largest voluntary In the Czech Republic, our sales force is made up of over pensions' provider in 2008 as measured by fund value according 450 agents operating across 14 branches, with 24 independent to the Private Pension Regulator CSSPP.
Aviva Romania has distributors and two bancassurance partners.
over 550 direct sales force agents and 157 staff.
We have In Hungary, in addition to the direct sales force we also established a new company to sell newly created mandatory sell through brokerage partners.
sales into Slovakia in August 2008, selling a single product In Russia, we started trading in early 2006, with a strategy through Brokernet Slovakia, which has increased our to position the business to take advantage of the growth geographical coverage.
expected to occur as the life insurance industry develops.
We In Romania, we distribute through a direct sales force were the fourth largest life insurer in 2009 compared to 21st in branch network and have bancassurance partners, which the prior year, with a 5% market share based on Aviva Russias include local units of Piraeus Bank and ABN AMRO.
estimates based on statistics from the insurance market At the end of 2009 Aviva Russia had 43 financial regulator and Interfax news agency.
Our strategy in the Other Europe region is to grow our Agreements with 13 leading retail banks have been signed direct sales force numbers and productivity, whilst continuing and bancassurance sales are growing rapidly.
development of other distribution channels, including bancassurance, to enhance our product range and to continue to Delta Lloyd investigate profitable opportunities in new markets.
In all of these Business overview and strategy markets, pension reform continues to offer long-term potential.
Delta Lloyd operates in the long-term insurance and savings, general insurance and the fund management markets in the Market Netherlands, Belgium and Germany.
The group employs about Across these new European markets there are countries at 6,300 staff as of 31 December 2009. different stages of development.
Hungary and Czech Republic In November 2009 Aviva successfully completed an IPO of are the most developed markets although they still have a gap Delta Lloyd which is now listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam.
as compared to Western European markets.
Aviva retains 58% of the ordinary share capital and 54% of We believe that Russia and Turkey, with their large the voting rights in Delta Lloyd after having raised 1 billion populations and rapid economic growth, are highly attractive of gross disposal proceeds.
Its listing enables Delta Lloyd to markets for the medium term.
Countries such as Romania strengthen its profile and brand, as well as more effectively represent longer-term potential.
With pension reform starting pursue its growth strategy in the Netherlands and Belgium, later in these countries, markets are at an early stage of in particular ahead of anticipated sector consolidation in development.
Delta Lloyd is considering its strategic options Competitiveness varies by country depending on its size in Germany.
In more developed markets On 24 March 2010 Delta Lloyd Germany has announced competition is with regional players eg AXA Allianz, ex-state the intention to discontinue writing new business.
This is in line owned insurers and new entities.
The less developed markets do with the decision, as indicated in the prospectus for the initial not have the same competitive intensity, although competition public offering, to discontinue Germany as a core market.
Delta Lloyd was one of the top five providers of life and general 28 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 insurance in the Netherlands in 2008 based on gross written North America premiums according to an analysis of competitor press releases.
Regional overview and strategy The sale of our health operations to O. W. M CZ Groep Aviva North America consists of two businesses: the life Zorgverkeraar U.
A CZ which was effective on 1 January 2009 insurance and annuity business in the US and the general realising a gain on sale of 31 million, has also given us an insurance business in Canada.
Our strategic priorities for the opportunity to sell long-term insurance and savings, and general region are to improve margins and optimise capital usage, to insurance products to CZs existing customer base.
selectively expand into market adjacencies and to optimise the Delta Lloyd Asset Management manages investments both regional operating model.
for Delta Lloyds own insurance operations and for third parties, To enhance the growth in our existing businesses, we also including individual and institutional customers.
In addition to seek to increase Avivas profile in North America by building managing equity and fixed interest funds, our operations on the strength of the global brand through concerted include management of a property portfolio.
communication efforts with financial analysts, key financial Delta Lloyd aims to be one of the leading financial service and business media, consumers and distributors.
We continue providers in the Netherlands and Belgium.
To achieve this goal, to expand our distribution network with a focus on larger our business is focused on achieving operating efficiencies and brokerage general agents.
product and distribution innovation, while building the trust Market and competition of our customers through improving customer service and The North America region is home to two of the worlds largest strengthening financial disciplines.
Aviva has two businesses that currently Market serve their respective home markets and are led by our regional We believe that the Dutch insurance market is mature and headquarters in Chicago.
that cost reduction and economies of scale are becoming We view both the US long-term insurance and annuity increasingly important.
Customers are increasingly demanding market and the Canadian property and casualty insurance that suppliers provide value-for-money high-performing market as highly fragmented markets with a large number products with transparent charges.
The Dutch savings market is of insurers, none of whom is in a truly dominant position.
extremely competitive with banks now able to offer retirement Competitors for the products in which we specialise, include products on the same terms as insurers.
global insurers such as AIG, Allianz, Royal & Sun Alliance, In the general insurance market there has been stiff Manulife Financial, Old Mutual and AXA.
Local market competition on premium rates, particularly in the key motor competitors also feature in various product segments.
account, and increasing claims frequencies linked with the We consider our competitive factors in the North America economic downturn.
region to be: The credit crisis has resulted in a number of Delta Lloyds Tailored products competitors seeking state or shareholder support.
We expect Product innovation this situation to result in further industry reorganisation and Technical expertise consolidation in the coming years.
Quality of distribution partnerships Financial strength and performance Products Strong financial ratings The long-term insurance and savings business of Delta Lloyd Investment management performance offers a range of protection, bonds and savings and pensions Global brand services, including group pension schemes, annuities, unit-linked bonds, savings products and protection insurance.
USA Our general insurance business sells a range of products Business overview and strategy including personal, motor, travel and home insurance and Aviva USA is the largest provider to both the fixed indexed life small to medium sized commercial policies.
insurance and fixed indexed annuities according to reports on Delta Lloyd also sells retail investment fund and mortgage 2008 sales which were released by LIMRA and AnnuitySpecs in products in the Netherlands and retail banking products early 2009.
Our acquisition of the former AmerUs Group was in Belgium.
Following this we have achieved Distribution significant growth and market penetration in the US market, Delta Lloyd distributes long-term insurance and savings and with more than one million customers.
general insurance products under three brands: Delta Lloyd, Prior to the acquisition of AmerUs Group, the US business OHRA and through a joint venture with ABN AMRO.
In the was headquartered in Boston and had a niche strategy, focused Netherlands the Delta Lloyd brand works exclusively with on retirement and estate planning with distribution through independent insurance intermediaries, while OHRA focuses independent agents, banks and structured settlement brokers.
on direct channels such as telephone, internet and mail.
Delta Our new strategy is to improve margins, optimise capital Lloyds third brand comprises a joint venture with ABN AMRO, usage and to leverage our core life insurance and annuity reaching customers through the extensive distribution networks distribution and product capabilities into adjacent markets.
In January 2009, Delta Lloyd and ABN A key theme for Aviva is one of recognition: treating both AMRO bank confirmed that the joint venture remains the employees and customers as unique people with unique exclusive insurance partner for the current and future Dutch circumstances.
banking operations of ABN AMRO, including Fortis branches when they rebrand in 2010.
Mutual funds are primarily sold through third-party banks such as ABN AMRO, ING and Rabobank.
Performance review 29 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Market Canada Business overview and strategy The US is the worlds largest national economy, according to the World Bank, based on 2008 GDP, as well as the largest Aviva Canada has an 8% share of the Canadian general insurance market, with a top five position in all major provinces insurance market according to the Swiss Re Sigma Report, No.
This is especially true for retirement savings products according to a report by MSA Research Inc. We believe that we are well placed in Canada for steady as 78 million members of the baby boom generation move into retirement in the US.
organic growth and that our success is underpinned by stable broker relationships, underwriting excellence and a balanced At the same time, the US economy, and its financial sector in particular, suffered a severe contraction as a result of the portfolio of commercial and personal lines.
Looking ahead, we aim to create value by repositioning our personal lines book in financial crisis.
There are now increasing signs of economic recovery and, despite the recession, North Americas economies Ontario through greater pricing sophistication and customer segmentation.
We will also continue to address increasing remain among the worlds largest and its population among the worlds wealthiest.
Retirement savings represent 34% of customer demand for choice and simplicity through our brokerdistribution model and brand investment in key territories.
In household assets in the US, according to a report by Investment Company Institute, and, despite the uncertainty affecting the commercial lines, we aim to retain our current market position through our expertise in distribution and product innovation.
financial markets, we believe that people are still saving and buying insurance from brands they trust.
In Aviva USA, we Market believe we are well positioned to respond to this customer As the seventh largest in the world, according to the Axco need for safety, having savings and investment products with Insurance Market Report, Canadas general insurance market is downside guarantees as a major component of our product established and stable.
The four largest provinces generate around portfolio.
The indexed annuity and indexed life markets in which 90% of total premiums with Ontario, the largest, representing Aviva USA operates are dominated by a small number of large 47% on its own, according to a report by MSA Research Inc in insurers.
According to the fourth quarter 2008 Advantage 2008.
The biggest growth market is western Canada, where Indexed Sales and Market Report by AnnuitySpecs, the top five economic development has resulted in significant population providers hold 62% of the indexed annuities market, while for increases and a changing demographic profile.
indexed life, the top five account for 64% of the market.
The Canadian general insurance industry is highly Products fragmented with many small players and no dominant Aviva USA has a strategic focus on protection, annuity and consumer brand.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top savings products.
Our life products include our universal life, five companies sharing 36% of the market with the top two companies, Intact Insurance formerly ING Canada and Aviva, indexed life, no lapse guaranteed and term assurance products.
Our savings products are primarily funding agreements.
The rest of the industry consists of smaller, annuity products include indexed annuities, fixed index provincially based or niche companies.
Further consolidation annuities, deferred fixed annuities, immediate annuities, is anticipated.
Distribution is primarily through the traditional broker guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefits, and structured settlements.
During 2008 we announced our withdrawal channel, estimated by market commentators, including Axco, from the structured settlement business.
to account for over 70% of distribution, with the direct and In addition, we now offer wellness products and services affinity channels gradually increasing their share of the market.
Competition for growth has moved to investment in brokers, through our relationship with Mayo Clinic Health Solutions.
We have also launched enhancements to our guaranteed income direct to consumer marketing, and technology.
withdrawal benefits and a new bonus index deferred annuity.
Products We provide a number of general insurance products through Distribution We use Independent Marketing Organisations IMOs to our Canadian companies including: Property, home and automobile insurance, including promote and sell our fixed indexed annuities and protection products.
Our network covers all 50 states and includes 11,500 recreational vehicles and mobile homes insurance Niche personal insurance products including holiday and annuity producers and 27,000 life insurance producers.
The large majority of annuity sales are made through fewer than park model trailers, horses, hobby farms, sailboats, power boats and antique classic and custom cars 3,000 producers, of who approximately one third are SEC registered.
We believe that SEC registration provides a number Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, of significant opportunities for the business, including the ability to cross-sell life products through the registered distribution and surety force and product penetration of distribution organisations that Distribution already operate within the registered market.
We also distribute We operate in Canada through a distribution network primarily through career marketing organisations, personal producing focused on approximately 1,700 independent retail brokers, general agents and brokerage general agents.
who distribute our core personal and commercial lines.
In addition, we work closely with both independent and wholly owned speciality brokers to distribute group insurance and speciality personal lines, such as insurance for antique cars.
30 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Asia Asia Pacific Business overview and strategy Regional overview and strategy Aviva has operations in eight markets in Asia, with businesses Aviva Asia Pacific operates in eight countries across the region at different stages of development.
through both joint ventures and wholly owned operations.
India In China, through our joint venture with COFCO Limited and China, our must-win markets, have large populations, COFCO, we are ranked fourth in terms of total premium relatively high economic growth and are expected to generate a among 28 foreign insurers in China according to China significant portion of the insurance growth in Asia in the future.
We currently have a presence Most of our developing businesses in our other countries in 10 provinces, with a total of 40 city branches.
Our new five Singapore, Hong Kong, South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Sri year strategy aims to achieve a top 10 position by 2014 in Lanka are bancassurance led with strong joint venture partners.
We had an established business in Australia, which we sold on In India, we operate in partnership with the Dabur Group 1 October 2009.
We believe that there is potential for growth through an associate, Aviva Life Insurance Company India in the Asia Pacific market due to low insurance penetration in Limited.
We currently rank 11th among the private life most countries, an expanding middle class and relatively high insurance companies in India based on first year premium as gross domestic product GDP growth.
at 31 December 2009, according to the Insurance Regulatory Aviva Asia Pacific aims to build a high growth and valueand Development Authority IRDA and we aim to be a top 10 creating region driven primarily by must w in markets of life insurer by leveraging our bancassurance expertise and China and India by increasing new business sales for long-term transforming our agency sales force.
insurance and savings products through development of existing In Singapore, we rank fifth in the life long-term insurance businesses, investment in new business development, leveraging market by annualised premium equivalent APE as at shared services and harnessing the benefits of multiple 30 September 2009 according to the Life Insurance Association.
distribution channels in all of our markets.
We are one of the leading bancassurance players in the market.
Market and competition We have recently extended our partnership with DBS Bank The Asia Pacific insurance market includes both mature markets DBS, one of the largest banks in Southeast Asia, until 2015, to such as Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South provide long-term insurance, savings and health and protection Korea and emerging markets such as India and China.
Importantly, the agreement now covers mature markets accounted for around 82% of our long-term additional markets such as India, China, and Taiwan.
However we expect that large In Hong Kong we are ranked 21st in the long-term emerging markets, particularly our must win markets of India insurance market by APE as at 30 September 2009 according and China, will become increasingly more important in the to the Office of the Commissioner of Insurance.
In long-term insurance and savings, we believe that the is to leverage our core bancassurance partnership with DBS long-term outlook is positive and will be driven by a generally and independent financial adviser IFA channels to deliver high savings rate, under-penetration of insurance and diversified profitable growth.
savings, relatively higher GDP growth and the growing need for In Sri Lanka, we own a 51% stake in Eagle Insurance old age provision.
Eagle is ranked the third largest life insurer and fifth At a regional level, Aviva Asia Pacific competes mainly with largest general insurer in the country, as based on gross other large international insurance and financial services groups.
written premiums in 2008 according to the Insurance Board of The most significant competitors include AIG, ING, Prudential Sri Lanka.
In the third quarter 2009, we signed a distribution plc, HSBC and AXA.
These groups are all early entrants into the agreement with Lanka ORIX Leasing Company PLC, a large region and most have significant operations and experience in leasing company.
In Sri Lanka, we aim to attain no.
1 position by all of the Asian markets.
Nevertheless, in our chosen markets, 2012 in terms of new business, in life business and to become we believe our strong distribution partnerships, wide footprint the fourth largest general insurance player in Sri Lanka.
and regional operational model position us well to compete In July 2007, we entered the Malaysian market through the effectively in the region and create a solid platform for acquisition of a 49% stake in two of CIMB Groups subsidiaries, continued growth.
Commerce Life Assurance Berhad and Commerce Takaful We consider our competitive factors in Asia Pacific to be: Berhad who have entered into bancassurance agreements with Balanced portfolio of markets another CIMB Group subsidiary, CIMB Bank.
This has provided Established presence in must-win markets Aviva access to over four million potential new customers as Multi-channel distribution, with particular strength well as introducing takaful insurance to the Aviva group.
We in bancassurance believe there is significant growth opportunity in takaful in the Strength in wrap administration platforms next few years.
We aim to become a top five life and takaful Brand recognition company in Malaysia by 2014 by APE.
Technical expertise Performance review 31 Performance review Aviva plc Information on the company continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Australia In 2007, Aviva formed a long-term insurance joint venture, First-Aviva, with First Financial Holdings Company FFHC For details on the sale of our Australian business, which completed on 1 October 2009, see Financial statements in Taiwan.
First-Aviva, in which we have a 49% shareholding, started operations in early 2008 and distributes long-term IFRS Note 3 Subsidiaries.
Aviva Australia prior to the sale on 1 October 2009 insurance and savings products through a bancassurance agreement with FFHCs flagship subsidiary, First Commercial provided investment and compulsory pensions superannuation products through our Navigator platform and protection Bank, which is Taiwans second largest bank network in terms of number of branches according to the Financial Supervisory insurance business.
In Australia, Aviva provided protection products including Commission.
By leveraging over five million bank customers, we aim to become the most profitable insurance company in life insurance, total and permanent disability insurance, and critical illness insurance products.
In April 2008, we entered the South Korean long-term We distributed protection insurance in Australia through all major channels with a focus on the IFA channel.
insurance market by acquiring a stake in LIG Insurance Company Ltd through a partnership formed with Woori Finance Aviva Investors Holdings Company Ltd Woori Bank is the second largest commercial bank in South Korea by market value.
We aim to Business overview and strategy be a top 10 life insurer by end 2012 by new business premiums.
Aviva Investors was set up in 2008 to combine major fund management components of the Aviva group into a single Market global fund management business.
We have 250 billion in We believe that the fundamentals of the Asian markets remain assets under management as at 31 December 2009 and offer attractive.
The low insurance penetration in most countries and a broad range of expert investment skills and experience relatively higher GDP growth indicate that prospects for around the world.
We manage internal funds for our long-term continued growth in the long-term insurance and savings insurance and savings, and general insurance operations as well industry are good.
The economic forecasts from Asia as a range of external retail and institutional funds.
We provide Development Bank predict GDP growth for the region of 4.3% these services across most of our geographic operating in 2009 and 6.6% in 2010 Asian Development Outlook 2009 segments, with services in 15 countries around the world, Update, 22 September 2009. including the UK, the US, Canada, France, Poland, China In our view, the strong outlook for the region is attracting and Australia.
a growing number of new insurers and some existing local Aviva Investors provides investment management services insurers are developing wider regional ambitions, resulting to a broad range of client types.
Our largest client group are in greater competitive pressure throughout the region.
the long-term insurance and savings, and general insurance Products businesses of Aviva plc.
For these clients we provide bespoke Our Asian businesses generally offer a range of protection, asset management services, across a broad spectrum of asset bonds and savings and pension products including universal classes.
We work extremely closely with these clients to develop life, participating life, unit-linked single and regular premium tailored solutions to their policyholder needs.
life insurance, other savings and pensions products and a range Our distribution model to external clients is a business-to of accident and health insurance products.
business model, and this is consistent across all regions.
We In Singapore and Hong Kong, we offer access to a wide provide both bespoke segregated solutions for larger clients range of mutual funds through Navigator, a wrap or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our target clients administration platform which allows investors to plan, choose, for the larger segregated solutions tend to be large pension manage and track their investments easily and more effectively.
schemes and large financial institutions such as insurance We are looking at opportunities to roll out our Navigator companies and banks.
platform to other attractive markets.
Our strategy is to rapidly grow our external business Distribution through offering client centric solutions to our customers across an expanding global footprint.
This will be achieved in We operate a multi-distribution strategy in Asia, with particular strength in bancassurance, and aim to continue to harness the conjunction with the establishment of a globally integrated benefits of multi-distribution in all of our markets as we expect organisation, supported by a high performance culture and the regionally dominant agency sales force model to decline in global core processes.
the region over coming years as markets mature.
Aviva Singapore has a multi-channel distribution strategy building on the core bancassurance relationship with DBS Bank and an expanding network of IFAs.
We believe that our UK and Australia expertise have helped grow this network.
In Hong Kong, we distribute the majority of our products through bancassurance and IFAs.
In China, India, Malaysia, Taiwan and South Korea bancassurance is the main distribution method.
However, direct sales force is growing in importance for our business in India.
32 Aviva plc Information on the company continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Market and competition In Australia, we have a range of unit trusts that are primarily Following the creation of Aviva Investors, we consider our marketed to retail clients through the Navigator platform.
This competitor peer group to include large-scale global asset platform enables investors to select from a range of funds, managers such as those owned by Blackrock, AXA and Allianz.
not just those manufactured by Aviva Investors.
The funds In addition, we continue to look at UK-based providers who we manufacture are primarily equity related funds with an have significant overseas operations, including both insuranceAustralian and Asian focus.
owned players such as Standard Life Investments and the We also have four Dublin domiciled money market funds combined asset management businesses of Prudential plc addressing the sterling and Euro money market segments.
primarily M&G, as well as independent, listed managers like These funds are sold by a specialist sales team based in London Schroders and Aberdeen Asset Management.
and target corporate treasury functions.
Where appropriate, we also look at other managers with a Asset classes strong presence in the UK institutional and retail markets such Aviva Investors offers a wide range of investment solutions as F&C Asset Management, Henderson Global Investors, Jupiter across all asset classes and in all significant financial centres Asset Management and Threadneedle.
Where we do not directly manage assets, we believe have non-UK operations, particularly in Europe.
we have the skills and experience to select the right third-party Key identified competitive factors for Aviva Investors include: asset managers to complement our own products.
Investment performance Our investment capabilities, products and services comprise: Brand Alternatives We offer a range of alternative investment Our Aviva group parentage products from private equity fund of funds to hedge funds.
Client service Equities Scale Fixed Income Our Fixed Income teams cover the complete Global product breadth and distribution reach product set: UK government securities, liquidity products, Capabilities to provide solutions corporate bonds, European and global sovereigns, indexRisk management expertise linked bonds, emerging markets hard and local currency Products debt and high-yield instruments.
Our product range is broad and covers most asset classes.
Global Investment Solutions Our new Global Investment In Europe we have a range of SICAVs domiciled in France, Solutions team constructs client solutions across markets.
These funds cover all Real Estate We offer funds specific to property assets in the key asset classes and normally have different share classes UK, Europe and Asia, in addition to a Global fund, clientdepending on the size and type of investor.
Our normal specific segregated funds and a multi-manager service.
distribution model for these funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and smaller institutional investors.
In the UK, we supply products to the UK retail and wholesale markets.
These funds are mostly owned by Aviva UK Life with Aviva Investors as asset manager, although we have a small number of funds registered in the Aviva Investors name.
These funds are promoted to investors via IFAs, fund platforms, supermarkets, and discretionary asset managers.
In addition, we have a range of pooled pension funds which are aimed at the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are normally defined benefit schemes and tend to be advised by investment consultants.
We manufacture hedge funds in the UK, US and Poland.
These funds are generally registered offshore and are primarily sold to the hedge funds industry, although we do also promote single strategy funds to institutional clients, family offices and wealth managers.
The asset classes include fixed interest, multi asset, convertibles and equities.
We also have an expanding range of specialist property funds.
These funds are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and provide real estate solutions to a wide range of risk appetites, ranging from secure income generating funds to highly leveraged growth funds.
These funds address the UK, European and Asian markets.
