Shareholder information 119 Performance review Aviva plc Additional information for Shareholders continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Income from associates predominantly relates to our previously distributed or capitalised, less accumulated, investments in the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS life and unrealised losses not previously written off based on IFRS.
collective investment companies listed in the Financial Even if distributable profits are available, we pay dividends only Statements IFRS Note 19 Interest in, and loans to, if the amount of our net assets is not less than the aggregate of associates.
Under management service agreements with our called-up share capital and undistributable reserves and the these associates, our UK life insurance companies provide payment of the dividend does not reduce the amount of our administration services, the cost of which is recharged to the net assets to less than that aggregate.
In addition, our fund management companies As a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends provide fund management services to these associates, for and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
Many which they charge fees based on the level of funds under of our subsidiaries are subject to insurance regulations that management.
restrict the amount of dividends that they can pay to us.
Transactions with joint ventures relate to the property Historically, we have declared an interim and a final dividend management undertakings.
At 31 December 2009, there were for each year with the final dividend being paid in the year 18 such joint ventures, the most material of which are listed in following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the restrictions the Financial Statement IFRS Note 13 Interest in, and loans set out above, the payment of interim dividends on ordinary to, joint ventures.
Our interest in these joint ventures comprises shares is made at the discretion of our Board of Directors, while a mix of equity and loans, together with the provision of payment of any final dividend requires the approval of our administration services and financial management to many shareholders at a general meeting.
Ordinary preference shares of them.
Our UK life insurance companies earn interest on are irredeemable and dividends on ordinary preference shares loans advanced to these entities and our fund management are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors.
companies charge fees for administration services and for We pay our cash dividends in pounds sterling, although our arranging external finance.
Articles of Association permit payment of dividends on ordinary Our UK fund management companies manage most of the shares in other currencies and in forms other than cash, such assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares held by the which they charge fees based on the level of funds under American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are paid in pounds management.
The main UK scheme and the Dutch scheme hold sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the pounds that it investments in Group-managed funds and insurance policies receives on behalf of the ADS holders into US dollars according with other Group companies, as explained in Financial to the prevailing market rate on the date that the ADS Statement IFRS Note 41 e iv Pension obligations.
depositary actually receives the dividends.
The other related parties receivables are not secured and For the 2007 final dividend and previous final and interim no guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables dividends, shareholders on record were provided with the will be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of issued ordinary shares through our scrip dividend scheme.
related parties are given in Financial Statements IFRS Note For the 2008 interim dividend the scrip dividend scheme was 45 h Contingent liabilities and other risk factors Other.
replaced by a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
For those shareholders participating in the DRIP, we paid a cash dividend, Loans to joint ventures which was then used to buy existing shares on the open market.
We make loans to our property management joint ventures to For the 2008 final dividend we withdrew the DRIP and fund property developments which we undertake with our joint reintroduced the scrip dividend scheme.
Movements in these loans may be found in An interim dividend is generally paid in November of each Financial Statements IFRS Note 18 Interests in, and loans to, year.
A final dividend is proposed by our Board of Directors joint ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2009 and at the after the end of the relevant year and generally paid in May.
end of each of the last three financial years are shown in the The following table shows certain information regarding the table below: dividends that we paid on ordinary shares for the periods indicated in pounds sterling and converted into US dollars at 2009 2008 2007 m m m the noon buying rate in effect on each payment date.
Loans to joint ventures 327 297 167 Interim Interim Final Final dividend dividend dividend dividend These constitute loans to joint ventures to fund shopping, per share per share per share per share Year pence cents pence cents business or distribution centres or properties in Europe, as well 2004 9.36 17.39 16.00 29.44 as a film studio development in the UK.
2009 9.00 14.75 15.00 23.55 Dividend Data Controls and procedures Our dividend policy is to sustain a target dividend cover of Disclosure controls and procedures between one and a half and two times our IFRS adjusted Management has evaluated, with the participation of Avivas operating profit after tax before amortisation of goodwill and Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer, the adjusting items.
Under UK company law, we may only pay effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures as at dividends if the company has distributable profits available.
There are inherent limitations to the Distributable profits are accumulated, realised profits not effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and
