82 Aviva plc Executive management Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Andrew Moss Igal Mayer Group chief executive Age 52 Chief executive, Aviva North America Age 48 See page 80 Joined the Group in 1989.
Formerly chief executive of Aviva UK General Insurance formerly Norwich Union Insurance, chief Patrick Regan executive officer of Aviva Canada, chief financial officer and Chief financial officer Age 44 executive vice-president.
Previously finance director for Norwich See page 81 Union Insurance and managing director for CGU Insurance in London.
Holds a BA Honours in Commerce and Economics from Mark Hodges the University of Toronto, is a chartered accountant and has Chief executive, Aviva UK Age 44 received an honorary Chartered Insurance Professional See page 81 designation from the Insurance Institute of Canada.
Andrea Moneta Robin Spencer Chief executive, Aviva Europe, Middle East and Africa Chief risk officer Age 40 Age 44 Joined the Group in 1995.
Formerly chief executive officer of See page 81 Aviva Canada, chief financial officer of Aviva Canada and held various senior management positions in the finance function, John Ainley including finance director for London & Edinburgh Insurance Group human resources director Age 53 Company Limited.
Previously spent five years with Procter & Joined the Group in 1999.
Formerly held senior HR positions Gamble Limited.
Holds an MA in Economics from Aberdeen with WH Smith plc, ICL plc, Priory Hospitals Group and General University and is a chartered management accountant.
Previously Group HR Director for Norwich Union plc chairman of Canada's Property and Casualty Insurance and HR Director for Norwich Union Insurance and Norwich Compensation Corporation.
Holds a Law degree and is a companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.
Alain Dromer Chief executive, Aviva Investors Age 55 Joined the Group in September 2007.
Formerly global head of group investment businesses at HSBC, senior executive vice president and head of asset management and insurance at Credit Commercial fide France and director of capital markets at La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild.
Formerly at the French Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and the French Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies.
Educated at lcole Polytechnique, Paris and lcole Nationale fide la Statistique lAdministration conomique, Paris.
Simon Machell Chief executive, Aviva Asia Pacific Age 46 Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly chief executive of Norwich Union Insurance and managing director of RAC plc.
Previously held positions with Ernst & Young LLP and Legal & General.
Holds a BA Honours in Economics from the University of Durham and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Amanda Mackenzie Chief marketing officer Age 46 Joined the Group in 2008.
Previously commercial and marketing director for British Gas plc and has more than 20 years of experience in the marketing and advertising profession.
Holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Psychology from the University of London and is a graduate of the INSEAD advanced management programme.
She is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, a member of the Government Strategic Marketing Advisory Board, a fellow of the Marketing Society and a governor of the National Youth Orchestra.
