50 Aviva plc Analysis of investments Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Analysis of investments General insurance and health business We invest our policyholders funds and our own funds in order The general insurance and health business is comprised of to generate a return for both policyholders and shareholders.
shorter-term liabilities than the long-term insurance business.
The financial strength of our group and both our current Furthermore, all the risk attaching to the investments is borne and future operating results and financial performance are, by our shareholders.
As a result, the investment portfolio held therefore, in part dependent on the quality and performance to cover general insurance liabilities contains a higher of our investment portfolios in our UK, continental European, proportion of fixed-income securities than the portfolio held North America and Asia Pacific operations.
to cover life insurance liabilities.
For additional information on our financial investments, Property partnerships please see Financial statements IFRS Note 24 Financial As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain investments.
For a quantitative analysis of funds under European policyholder funds have invested in a number of management by Aviva and third-party fund managers, property limited partnerships PLPs, either directly or via see Financial statements IFRS Note 58 Assets under property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of capital and loans.
The nature of our involvement in property partnerships is set out in the second and third paragraphs of the Investment vehicles Investment strategy section of Financial Statements IFRS Accounting policies C Our investment portfolio supports a range of businesses Consolidation principles.
Property partnerships are accounted operating in a number of geographical locations.
Our aim is for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or financial investments to match the investments held to support a line of business depending on our participation and the terms of each to the nature of the underlying liabilities, while at the same partnership agreement.
For each property partnership time considering local regulatory requirements, the level of accounted for as a subsidiary, joint venture or financial risk inherent within different investments, and the desire to investment, we are exposed to falls in the value of the generate superior investment returns, where compatible with underlying properties which are reflected as unrealised this stated strategy and risk appetite.
gains losses on investment properties, our share of joint venture Long-term insurance and savings business results and unrealised gains losses on financial investments, As stated above, we aim to optimise investment returns while respectively.
However, these are all in policyholder funds rather ensuring that sufficient assets are held to meet future liabilities than shareholder funds so such losses are offset by changes in and regulatory requirements.
As different types of life insurance the amounts due to policyholders or unitholders, or in the business vary in their cash flows and in the expectations placed Unallocated Divisible Surplus UDS.
upon them by policyholders, we need to hold different types of investment to meet these different cash flows and expectations.
The UK with-profits business is comprised largely of longterm contracts with some guaranteed payments.
We are therefore able to invest a significant proportion of the funds supporting this business in equities and real estate.
This is because the long-term nature of these contracts allows us to take advantage of the long-term growth potential within these classes of assets, while the level of guaranteed payments is managed to mitigate the level of risk that we bear in relation to the volatility of these classes of assets.
Annuities and non-participating contracts, on the other hand, have a high level of guaranteed future payments.
We endeavour to match the investments held against these types of business to future cash flows.
We therefore have a policy of generally holding fixed income securities and mortgage loans with appropriate maturity dates.
With unit-linked business, the primary objective is to maximise investment returns, subject to following an investment policy consistent with the representations that we have made to our unit-linked product policyholders.
Performance review 51 Performance review Aviva plc Analysis of investments continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Analysis of financial investments We distinguish between policyholder, participating fund and shareholder investments, which are terms used to reflect the differing exposure to investment gains and losses.
Policyholder assets are connected to our unit-linked business, where the policyholder bears the investment risk on the assets in the unit-linked funds.
Our exposure to loss on policyholder assets is limited to the extent that income arising from asset management charges is based on the value of assets in the funds.
Participating fund assets related to some of our insurance and investment contracts which contain a discretionary participating feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
Our exposure to investment losses on participating funds is generally limited to our participation in the fund.
Shareholder assets are other assets held within our long-term businesses that are not backing unit-linked liabilities or participating funds.
The apportionment of our shareholder assets is predominantly weighted towards debt securities and loans.
In comparison, policyholder and participating funds contain a greater proportion of investment property, equities, and other investments eg, unit trusts, reflecting the underlying investment mandates.
Financial investment balances included in the remainder of this disclosure include financial investments of operations classified as held for sale.
Measurement basis We carry investments on our statement of financial position at either fair value or amortised cost.
As shown in the table below, at 31 December 2009, 93% of the groups total investments were carried at fair value on the statement of financial position.
2009 2008 2007 Amortised Amortised Amortised Fair value cost Total Fair value cost Total Fair value cost Total m m m m m m m m m Investment property 12,430 12,430 14,426 14,426 15,391 15,391 Loans 20,890 20,189 41,079 21,468 20,769 42,237 18,540 17,653 36,193 Financial investments Debt securities 160,510 160,510 150,734 150,734 121,591 121,591 Equity securities 43,343 43,343 43,411 43,411 59,065 59,065 Other investments 34,849 34,849 36,511 36,511 36,500 36,500 Total 272,022 20,189 292,211 266,550 20,769 287,319 251,087 17,653 268,740 Total % 93.1% 6.9% 92.8% 7.2% 93.4% 6.6% For more information about financial investments analysed according to their accounting classification and valuation approach, as well as the cost, unrealised gains and losses, impairments, fair value and other information concerning financial investments, see the Financial Statements IFRS Note 24 Financial investments.
Debt securities We grade debt securities according to current external credit ratings issued.
The credit rating used for each individual security is the second highest of the available ratings from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
If a credit rating is available from only one of these three rating agencies then this rating is used.
If an individual security has not been given a credit rating by any of these three rating agencies, the security is classified as non-rated.
For the tables below we have used the standard Standard & Poors rating classifications.
Investment grade debt securities are classified within the range of AAA extremely strong to BBB good ratings, with AAA being the highest possible rating.
Debt securities which fall outside this range are classified as speculative grade.
Where we use a rating provided by Moodys or Fitch, we have expressed it as the Standard & Poors equivalent rating.
For example, we consider Standard & Poors rating of AA very strong to be equivalent to Moodys rating of AA excellent and Fitchs rating of AA very strong.
52 Aviva plc Analysis of investments continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Despite the increase in market downgrade activity during 2008 and 2009, debt securities with a credit rating of A or above at 31 December 2009 still represented 81.6% of total holdings 2008: 86.3%.
Approximately 43% of total debt security holdings were in government bonds and 34% of total debt security holdings were in corporate bonds with a credit rating of A or above, as of 31 December 2009.
Wrapped credit is credit exposure that has been insured with monoline insurers to achieve a better credit rating.
The monoline insurers suffered downgrades during 2008 and 2009 and this is reflected in the analysis that follows.
The exposure is diversified across several monolines and the underlying bonds are diversified across many different counterparties.
In general, we are a long-term holder of this debt, although we continue to review our holdings with reference to the underlying quality and prospects.
The majority of the residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS are US investments and over 65% of the total exposure is backed by the US Government-sponsored entities GSEs Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
Under the conservatorship arrangements with the US Government implemented in September 2008, these securities have an implicit guarantee, although they are not expressly backed by the full faith and credit of the US Government.
The majority of the remaining US RMBS are backed by fixed-rate loans that originated in 2005 or before.
At 31 December 2009, our exposure to sub-prime debt securities was limited to 2 million 2008: 39 million, and our exposure to collaterised debt obligations CDO and collaterised loan obligations CLO was limited to 176 million.
Investments in structured assets excluding agency RMBS that are backed by GSEs were 7,341 million, representing less than 5% of total debt securities.
The vast majority of the corporate bonds that are not rated represent private placements and corporate bond investments made via unit trusts, where a look-through to the underlying securities has been performed.
The private placements are US investments which are not rated by the major rating agencies but are rated an average equivalent of Aby the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners NAIC, a US association of state insurance regulators.
Excluding the private placements that are rated an average A by the NAIC, the exposure that is not rated by a major rating agency is less than 3% of total debt securities.
Of the debt securities rated less than BBB, 77% are rated BB, while only 5%, amounting to 181 million, are rated below B.
Debt securities analysed by credit rating and sector Total debt securities analysed by credit rating and product type are set out in the table below.
Government and corporate debt securities are further analysed by type of issuer.
CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed Security 2.
ABCP Asset backed commercial paper 4.
ABFRN Asset backed floating rate notes Performance review 53 Performance review Aviva plc Analysis of investments continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Debt securities, for which policyholders carry the exposure to investment losses, analysed by credit rating and product type are set out in the table below.
As rating agencies do not provide credit ratings for individual wrapped credit securities without consideration of the insurance guarantee, the credit ratings disclosed in the table below for wrapped credit without the benefit of the insurance guarantee is based on the long-term issuer credit ratings for unsecured corporate debt of the issuer, where this information is available.
