96 Aviva plc Risk and Regulatory committee report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 This report provides details of the role of the Risk and Committee activities during 2009 Regulatory Committee and the work it has undertaken during The Committees main functions are to assist the Board in the year.
making decisions on the Groups risk appetite: to oversee the The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in monitoring and control of risks so that they remain aligned with providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups appetite: to ensure that management is reviewing emerging management of risk.
The full terms of reference for the risks and testing the Groups resilience through scenario Committee can be found on the Companys website, planning and stress testing: to give broad direction to the way www.
com, and are also available from the Group the Group assesses its capital requirements and how it is Company Secretary.
optimising the balance between risk and reward when The following independent non-executive directors served allocating capital for new business: and to ensure that on the Committee during the year: management and the Board have high quality information on risk when reviewing Group strategy and future plans.
Period During the year the Committee focused on the Member From To following areas: Mary Francis Chairman 14 January 2006 To date Strengthening the risk function: a number of changes Nikesh Arora 1 July 2007 5 August 2009 have been made to the risk function since the Groups move Wim Dik 14 January 2006 29 April 2009 Leslie Van fide Walle 24 September 2009 To date to a regional structure.
Following a review of progress, Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date further changes have been implemented including: the appointment of a new Chief Risk Officer who reports to the Michael Hawker was appointed to the Committee on 1 January Group Chief Executive: emphasis on first line responsibilities 2010.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2009 and the for managing risk, with support and challenge from the risk members attendance record is set out in the Corporate function and initiation of a comprehensive review of the Governance report on page 88.
In addition the Committee held Groups risk appetite.
separate meetings with members of senior management and Capital management: this was a strong focus of the Ernst & Young for the purposes of induction and training.
The Committee throughout the year.
Group capital requirements Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the were monitored against existing risk appetite and capital Committee.
availability in a rapidly changing market.
The Committee The Group Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer, Chief reviewed scenario and stress testing and also considered Financial Officer, Chief Audit Officer, Group Regulatory Director reinsurance and hedging strategies to understand their and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all contribution to capital management.
Other members of senior Solvency II: with increasing emphasis on economic capital, management are also invited to attend as appropriate to the Committee monitored the likely impact of Solvency II on present reports.
It is the Committees practice at each meeting the Groups economic capital requirements and businesses.
to meet separately with the Chief Audit Officer and the external The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the auditor without any members of management being present.
In Groups Solvency II programme.
performing its duties, the Committee has access to the services Risk monitoring: the Committee received regular reports on of the Chief Audit Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Group key risks and the actions and controls introduced to mitigate Regulatory Director, and the Group Company Secretary and any risks that were out of appetite.
Necessary focus was external professional advisers.
During 2009 the Committee placed on financial and insurance risks including those appointed Keith Nicholson, a former partner at KPMG LLP, as an relating to capital, credit, and equity risk.
The Committee external adviser to the Committee.
continued its practice of inviting business unit and regional teams, led by their Chief Executive, to present on how risk is External background managed in their businesses.
During the year, presentations In the challenging economic and market environment the Board were received from North America region, Europe region, and the Committee continued to focus on financial risk and Asia Pacific region and UK General Insurance.
The Committee also spent an increasing Group risk policies: The Committee approved significant amount of time on the emerging requirements of the European changes to certain Group risk policies and received regular Unions Solvency II Directive, and the recommendations of the reports on compliance with Group policies.
Although the recommendations of the Operational risks: during the year the Committee paid Walker Report are not yet binding on the Group, the Group is particular attention to business protection and IT risks, and already compliant with the majority of the recommendations how business units were embedding behaviour that met the relating to risk.
In particular, the Board has had a separate risk FSAs principles of Treating Customers Fairly.
The Committee chairman Regulatory risks and relationships: The Committee regularly reports to the Board on the Committees activities, and received regular reports on compliance issues and regulatory sits on the Audit and Remuneration Committees to ensure that and other public policy initiatives.
In particular, it monitored risk considerations are fully reflected in their decisions.
the actions being taken by management in response to the FSAs Risk Mitigation Programme: monitored worldwide regulatory reform developments arising from the financial crisis and government and regulatory responses to it: monitored management responses to proposed changes in the prudential requirements for financial services companies: and oversaw measures to strengthen oversight of the Groups compliance functions, particularly outside the UK.
Governance 97 Performance review Aviva plc Risk and Regulatory committee report continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Fraud and financial crime: the Committee maintained regular oversight of compliance with controls against financial malpractice including fraud, and of the arrangements for employees to report in confidence any concerns about lack of probity whistleblowing.
Internal controls: the Groups internal audit function provided the Committee with independent and objective assurance over the appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of internal controls.
Key control issues reported by Group internal audit to management and to the Committee members were monitored on a quarterly basis until the risk exposure had been properly mitigated.
During the year the Committee held two joint meetings with the Audit Committee and one with the members of the business unit audit committees in the Asia Pacific region.
The chairman of the Committee reports at the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, including the Risk and Regulatory Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 3 March 2010.
Mary Francis Chairman, Risk and Regulatory Committee
