12 Aviva plc Aviva UK Annual Report and Accounts 2009 As a result of our major simplification and efficiency initiatives, A leader in our home market designed to better meet customer needs, we have outsourced the administration of almost three million policies to industry From 1 January 2010 we have brought together experts: Swiss Re, Scottish Friendly and International Financial the Aviva UK life and general insurance Data Services.
We have decommissioned over 300 IT systems, delivered a more flexible cost base and made 100 million of businesses, creating a new organisation led by annualised cost savings.
In 2009, in addition We have continued to invest in our e-commerce offerings to completing the rebranding to Aviva, both with the launch of further new propositions to help our businesses have continued their extensive customers and distribution partners.
Customer Portal and Aviva for Advisers provide secure online access to over transformation programmes, which will make 4.5 million policies, enabling customers and advisers to manage significant improvements to customer service, their Aviva life products quickly and easily at a time convenient and they have delivered combined cost savings to them.
We were also the first in the industry to offer a virtual of 450 million, a year ahead of plan.
online guide as part of our innovative Pension Tracker, making it possible for almost 1.5 million customers to manage their Strategy Aviva pension plans online.
This approach contributed to Aviva Our core strategies for the UK business are: winning the Personal Finance Pension Provider of the Year to leverage our extensive distribution network and customer award voted for by customers and judged on proposition base to increase profits in a mature but evolving marketplace quality, brand, service and sustainability.
to maintain market leadership through balanced distribution Throughout 2009 our commitment to deliver service and broad product mix, improved customer retention and excellence has driven improved satisfaction and advocacy the simplification of processes, services and costs results.
By listening to and understanding what matters most to our customers and distributors, we can ensure they have Aviva UK a better service experience.
IFRS operating profit for the year decreased 15% to Outlook 1,165 million reflecting the impact of lower premiums and We expect the market to remain challenging in the short term lower investment returns.
These results are discussed in more as the impact of the recession continues to influence demand detail on page 44 of this report.
for investment and savings products.
Longer term, major The rebrand to Aviva in the UK took place on 1 June 2009. regulatory changes including the Retail Distribution Review Our successful advertising campaigns, highlighting Avivas and Solvency II will be implemented.
Our strategies will enable products and services and encouraging customers to get the us to exploit the opportunities emerging in our market as we Aviva deal, have increased recognition and awareness of the continue to build on our e-commerce and service capability and Aviva brand significantly.
UK life business Fair reattribution payments Market environment Following the announcement in May 2009 of a new, more During 2009 the overall long-term savings market declined by flexible offer and the subsequent FSA and High Court 1 17%.
This contraction, for the second consecutive year, was approval in September the reattribution of our inherited primarily driven by falls in the pension and bond markets as estate completed on 1 October.
Our objective was always to lower consumer confidence, limited salary increases and higher create a reattribution that was fair to both shareholders and unemployment reduced customers propensity to save and policyholders, making sure that customers had a choice of invest for the future.
Specific regulatory events, such as the whether they wished to accept the offer, depending on their cessation of sales of single premium creditor business, also personal circumstances.
As a result, over 87% of eligible impacted the market.
Despite this, we have maintained a policyholders voted during the election process, with 96% of disciplined focus on profitability, significantly improving our these voting in favour of the offer.
By the end of 2009, the new business margin.
majority of the 471 million reattribution payment had been distributed to those policyholders who accepted the offer.
Performance In the UK life market, Aviva has built a leading position across Long-term and savings sales m a broad product range.
We have gained competitive advantage through our financial strength, product development and taking 09 9,963 actions to simplify the business making it easier for customers.
08 13,343 We delivered new propositions recognising consumer needs, including offering 12-months, free life cover to new 07 14,548 parents, the launch of a With-Profit Guaranteed bond and 06 13,812 recently re-opening our Wrap and Sipp platforms to new 05 10,345 business.
Our innovative Simplified Life protection product continues to go from strength to strength with a 147% increase in new applications compared to 2008, whilst our marketleading individual annuity pricing capability attained record new business volumes for this product in the fourth quarter of 2009.
1 Source: Association of British Insurers ABI Performance review 13 Performance review Aviva plc Aviva UK continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information This is particularly true in the case of Commercial lines and there Long-term and savings operating profit m is little evidence that the market is hardening significantly.
MCEV IFRS 09 787 RAC insurance 672 RAC continues from strength to strength as a leading UK service 08 883 brand, coming fifth in the Institute of Customer Services 2009 751 survey, comparable with John Lewis, Waitrose and M&S.
In its 07 822 core breakdown category it won the JD Power survey for an 723 unprecedented fourth consecutive year.
The service culture is 06 744 not just delivered by our patrol staff either: RACs membership 629 call centre entered the Times Top 50 UK call centres at 14th.
05 589 In January 2009 we launched our car insurance panel under 327 the iconic RAC brand to complement our existing direct offering from Aviva.
This ensures that almost every customer that calls us On an MCEV basis from 2007.
Prior years presented on an EEV basis.
can be provided cover at competitive prices.
The panel is on all the major online price comparison sites and it is writing growing volumes of business through this channel of distribution.
UK general insurance business Market environment 2009 has been a challenging year, with strong competition and General insurance and health net written premiums m the recession impacting all lines of business.
More customers 09 4,298 are searching for cheaper deals, while fewer are making 08 5,413 discretionary purchases such as breakdown cover.
A significant fall in creditor volumes, resulting from lower lending, was 07 5,897 compounded by a sharp rise in creditor claims.
Fewer start-ups, 06 6,000 more business failures and reduced exposures have resulted in 05 6,127 shrinking commercial markets.
However, there have been some recent encouraging signs that more realistic pricing is emerging in the market, particularly in personal motor.
General insurance and health IFRS operating profit m Performance COR The UK general insurance operation has significantly improved 1,200 108 the profitability of business written in 2009.
By simplifying the business, reducing costs, achieving scale benefits and taking a 960 104 disciplined approach to underwriting and distribution, we have 720 100 created a platform for future growth.
Progress on our transformation programme remains ahead 480 96 of plan, with all business now being undertaken in our new centres of excellence.
We are on track to deliver annualised 240 92 savings of more than our 150 million target from this phase by 0 88 2010, in addition to savings of 200 million already delivered.
05 06 07 08 09 We have refocused our brands to offer our custom ers the best price when they buy direct from Aviva supported by our Get the Aviva Deal marketing campaign, complemented by the RAC panel which is available on all major online price comparison sites and supported by 17 insurers.
The impact has been extremely positive: we sold more direct personal motor policies in the fourth quarter than in the same period in the previous three years and the RAC panel had gained a share of around 3.5% of new business in the UK personal motor market by the end of 2009.
Overall business volumes have fallen reflecting the action we have taken to exit unprofitable business and the challenging market conditions.
We continue to support independent brokers through a range of initiatives including customised networks such as the Broker Independence Group and Club 110 as well as providing easy and fast access to our best prices.
In addition, we were delighted to renew the Barclays homeowner account.
Outlook In the general insurance market, quality of earnings remains our priority and we aim to increase profitability through enhanced risk selection and tightly controlling our costs.
Whilst there are some encouraging signs in personal motor, we continue to see intense competition in many segments of the market and we await the significant shift in attitude that the market requires.
% 14 Aviva plc Europe Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Since January 2010, Aviva Europe has assumed responsibility Building a truly pan-European for developing Avivas business interests in the Middle East, based in the United Arab Emirates.
We expect this highbusiness with a broad and potential market to grow, benefiting from Aviva Europes diverse portfolio experience and resources.
We achieved total sales of 16,258 million during 2009, We have a clear strategy to exploit the up 8% on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the year decreased 4% to 797 million, reflecting exceptional weather losses in considerable opportunities in Europe.
These results are discussed in more detail is significant growth potential in the region, on page 45 of this report.
in both under-penetrated Western markets and We have made significant progress in our migration to a single Aviva brand.
Having operated as Hibernian Aviva in 2009, developing markets in Eastern Europe.
With our we adopted the Aviva name in Ireland at the start of 2010 and proven ability to operate across distribution we will complete our brand migration programme in June 2010 channels, we will be able to respond favourably when we will operate as Aviva in Poland.
Recognition of the to market developments as customer confidence Aviva brand continues to grow in both markets, with Ireland 3 recording prompted awareness rates in excess of 90%.
Our bancassurance franchise is the largest in Europe with 4 Strategy 50 bank agreements and our retail channel accesses nine Our strategy is to capitalise on the significant opportunities million customers through 18,000 financial advisers.
With this within Europe through: proven ability to operate across distribution channels, we are Aviva Europes Quantum Leap transformation plan, able to meet different customer preferences and respond creating one market leading pan-European business favourably to market developments.
from 12 federated businesses, Our business is performing strongly in both distribution the strategic development of our 58% investment in channels.
In retail, our partnership with AFER, a leading savings Delta Lloyd following the IPO in November 2009. association in France, continues to be extremely successful with customer numbers growing by 5% to 712,000 in 2009.
Our principal financial objective is long-term, sustainable, In bancassurance, our Italian partnership with Banco Popolare profitable growth.
that commenced in 2008 performed strongly in highly profitable protection products, one of our key strategic objectives.
Market environment In 2009, we developed our suite of guaranteed products which Europe is already the largest insurance market in the world with have proved attractive particularly in France, Spain and Italy.
an affluent population of over 800 million people, generating Being there for customers in times of need is crucial: 1 31% of global insurance premiums and accounting for over following flooding and storms in France during 2009, we paid 2 30% of global personal financial assets.
Europe offers out 90% of claims in the year.
And to reinforce this, 94% of significant growth opportunities in both under-penetrated our customers in France who were hit by Hurricane Klaus were Western markets and developing markets in Eastern Europe.
happy with the way we handled their claims.
As elsewhere, the slowdown in economic growth has impacted customer behaviour in the majority of the region Long-term and savings sales m with customers favouring deposit bank accounts or guaranteed Europe Delta Lloyd insurance products.
Customer confidence is beginning to return 09 18,704 particularly in France, Italy and Poland where customers are 08 17,716 starting to re-invest in more attractive insurance products such as unit-linked bonds.
07 17,256 06 14,525 Aviva Europe performance 05 12,827 Aviva Europe operates in 12 businesses across Europe excluding the UK with substantial operations in France, Italy, Ireland, Poland and Spain.
We also have a presence in the developing Long-term and savings operating profit m markets in Central and Eastern Europe of Czech Republic, Europe Delta Lloyd Hungary, Lithuania, Romania, Russia, Turkey and Slovakia.
09 MCEV 2,235 As part of our strategy, we are transforming our 12 federated IFRS 1,038 businesses through our Quantum Leap programme into one 08 market leading pan-European business.
Aviva Oliver Wyman research 2007 UK is excluded.
Retail refers to the sale of insurance products outside of the bancassurance chanel through On a MCEV basis from 2007.
our direct sales force, IFAs, brokers or internet sales.
Performance review 15 Performance review Aviva plc Europe continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Delta Lloyd performance General insurance and health net written premiums m Our Delta Lloyd business is one of the top-five financial services Europe Delta Lloyd providers in the Netherlands and also operates in Belgium and 09 3,046 Germany.
In 2009, we completed the successful IPO and partial 08 4,090 sale of Delta Lloyd on Euronext Amsterdam with gross proceeds of 1 billion for a 42% stake.
This was a significant strategic 07 3,232 milestone in our management of Delta Lloyd and gives us 06 3,287 further opportunity to reallocate capital within the group.
05 2,754 The market environment in the Netherlands remained challenging, with weak asset values constraining activity in the corporate pensions market, before improving in the latter part General insurance and health IFRS operating profit m of the year when Delta Lloyd secured two large group contracts.
Europe Delta Lloyd Total sales in 2009 of 5,492 million were down 18% reflecting the sale of the health business.
IFRS operating profit for the year 09 275 increased 29% to 399 million.
These results are discussed in 08 397 more detail on page 46 of this report.
07 442 Delta Lloyd continues to offer innovative, high quality products backed by strong fund management performance.
06 417 In June, in collaboration with Rabobank, Delta Lloyd launched 05 390 a 200 million fund, which offers an alternative source of capital for promising Dutch ventures.
In 2009, we successfully integrated the Swiss Life Belgium operation with our existing Belgian life operations.
Belgium extended the ABN AMRO distribution arrangement to include Fortis branches when they are rebranded in 2010.
Outlook Market conditions will continue to vary considerably between countries: the recession is still challenging in Ireland, Spain and Hungary but we are seeing signs of recovery in France, Italy and Poland.
By continuing to carefully balance profit generation and investment opportunities across our broad and diverse portfolio and by enhancing innovative customer focused offerings, we are confident that we can benefit from the growth potential within Europe.
Aviva Europe: Making a Quantum Leap in performance In 2009, we announced our new strategy to make a Quantum Leap in performance by integrating the operations of our 12 separate Aviva Europe businesses.
We are creating a single pan-European organisation which will create significant value for Avivas customers and shareholders.
By moving to a pan-European operating model, we are simplifying our product range, shortening the time to launch new products for our customers and making significant efficiency gains by centralising our operations, enabling us to improve cost management, grow net profits and enhance dividends remitted to the Group.
As part of our transformation, we are also establishing a single holding company for our European operations in Ireland.
This new structure will deliver economic, operational and regulatory benefits, especially with the anticipated introduction of Solvency II in 2012.
Our two pan-European distribution channels, bancassurance and retail, supported by pan-European product development, operations and governance will enable us to take full advantage of the significant growth potential and opportunities in Europe and contribute fully to the 'One Aviva, Twice the Value' target.
16 Aviva plc North America Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Outlook Poised to benefit from recovery in A number of economic indicators are starting to point to a steady recovery in 2010.
We will continue to grow our life the worlds wealthiest market insurance portfolio in the US and our contribution to total Aviva profits, building on 2009 successes.
We await the outcome of The North American marketplace provides us with the SEC151A debate concerning the future regulation of access to a strategically attractive population with annuity products and will respond appropriately.
In Canada we a growing demand for products that offer will further enhance our underwriting processes to improve risk selection, profitability and capital efficiency.
prosperity and peace of mind in both the general insurance and life and annuities marketplaces.
Innovative pricing Strategy In the Canadian business we have successfully implemented We will continue to grow our existing businesses and raise an innovative approach to the pricing of personal property our profile in North America on the back of the strength of business known as Rate by Peril.
We have used a detailed the global brand, communicating with financial analysts, key and sophisticated mapping approach combined with proprietary financial and business media, consumers and distributors.
and public information to deconstruct the blended approach Our strategic priorities for the region are: to pricing used for multi-peril household policies.
Using this to enhance capital efficiency and optimise margins approach we are able to determine a unique rate for each to selectively expand and grow our core life insurance individual property reflecting its unique exposure to the perils and annuity distribution and product capabilities covered by the policy including fire, water damage, wind-storm, to operate as a great underwriting company sewer back-up, theft and liability.
The increased pricing to make best use of the synergies created within the regional precision that we are able to apply enables us to right-price operating model each property.
to enhance strong and valuable relationships with our customers and distributors.
Total sales m General insurance Long-term savings Market environment The US economy, and its financial sector in particular, suffered 09 6,345 a severe contraction as a result of the financial crisis.
The 08 7,316 recession also had a major impact on Canada, the US largest 07 5,058 trading partner.
There are now increasing signs of economic recovery and, despite the recession, North Americas economies 06 2,284 remain among the worlds largest and its population among 05 1,851 the worlds wealthiest.
Operating profit m Performance MCEV IFRS Total sales were 6,345 million in 2009, down 13% on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the year improved 43% to 213 million 09 394 reflecting the improved long-term and savings result.
Our 213 financial results are discussed in more detail on page 47 of 08 334 this report.
149 In our US business we have deliberately moderated annuity 07 274 sales in comparison to the prior year and centred on capital 229 management.
We have grown our life insurance portfolio, 06 180 outperforming in a market that contracted by 19% in the 161 first nine months of the year.
05 In the Canadian business we have focused on initiatives 172 158 that improve our operational and underwriting effectiveness.
Examples include the implementation of our three-company On an MCEV basis from 2007.
model, enabling us to price the auto business in the heavily regulated Ontario market more accurately, and enhanced underwriting through the use of more standardised and automated processes.
Elsewhere the Canadian business has seen an unusually high frequency of large losses through a combination of commercial fires and Ontario personal auto claims.
As part of the One Aviva, Twice the Value strategy, we are consolidating each of our non-market-facing functions into single North American business areas giving us improved capability at lower cost.
Performance review 17 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Asia Pacific Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information India.
We opened our tenth provincial branch in China, ahead Committed to building a highof our 2010 target: achieved encouraging sales through Woori Bank in South Korea and opened 13 new branches around the growth and value-creating region Seoul area.
We operate in eight countries across the Asia Outlook Pacific region through both joint ventures and Looking forward, we expect recovery in Asia Pacific to be ahead wholly-owned operations.
India and China, of other regions.
Prospects for 2010 are more optimistic with the Asia Development Bank predicting GDP growth of 6.6% both with large populations and relatively high for emerging Asia versus 4.3% in 2009.
We are committed economic growth, are must-win markets to building a high-growth and value-creating region and capable of generating a significant proportion establishing Aviva as a leading international player in Asia.
of our future expansion within Asia.
Throughout Joint venture in Malaysia the rest of the region, our focus is on developing We signed a joint venture partner deal with CIMB, the second the strength of our bancassurance business with largest bank in Malaysia in 2007 to capitalise on its distribution joint venture partners.
network by providing market leading insurance products and excellent servicing capability.
To achieve this we drew on our Strategy regional shared services capability and technical infrastructure Our ambition is to build a high growth and value-creating in Singapore to deliver and administer the product set.
We region driven by the must-win markets of China and India.
successfully launched a portfolio EasyLife Solutions of 10 We will achieve this by: investment-linked products within a six-month timeframe.
securing strong organic growth across all our markets Sales of EasyLife Solutions have gone from strength to strength, leveraging our multi-distribution platforms and core contributing to our position as fourth in the industry for single capabilities in bancassurance premium business in 2009.
This has also strengthened our exploring new growth opportunities in particular health partnership with CIMB at all levels.
and general insurance expanding our regional footprint in fast-growing, high potential insurance markets Total sales m investing in the Aviva brand.
09 2,712 Market environment 08 3,499 Trading conditions were difficult in 2009.
Long-term savings 07 4,283 sales were affected by the economic climate as investors turned 06 3,059 to low volatility investments such as bank deposits.
The industry also experienced an increase in lapses and clients exercising 05 1,990 their premium holiday options.
Operating profit m Performance MCEV IFRS Total sales were 2,712 million in 2009, down 22% on 2008.
IFRS operating profit for the year improved 114% to 77 million 09 86 77 reflecting the improved long-term and savings result.
Our financial results are discussed in more detail on page 48 of 08 69 this report.
36 During 2009, customers increased caution has led to 07 101 a growing demand for protection and health products and 37 those savings products with guarantee features.
We have 06 92 strengthened our proposition in these areas which, together 50 with our investment product capabilities, will enable us to 05 89 harness the expected economic rebound.
15 We made substantial efforts to conserve capital and control costs, reducing the sale of capital intensive products in Hong On an MCEV basis from 2007.
Kong, Malaysia and Taiwan and implementing a region-wide cost-reduction programme.
The sale of our Australian business in October also realised a 0.4 billion contribution to capital.
As part of our commitment to achieving One Aviva, Twice the Value, we launched a number of new initiatives in the region.
These included our wrap platform in Hong Kong and new protection, savings and investment products, both conventional and Takaful Islamic insurance, in Malaysia through our shared services platform.
We expanded our customer reach in local markets during the year with a particular focus on bancassurance: we renewed our partnership with DBS Bank in Singapore and Hong Kong until 2015, extended to additional markets in India, China and Taiwan, and also agreed extended terms with key partners in 18 Aviva plc Aviva Investors Annual Report and Accounts 2009 external clients and underpin our client-centric approach.
This Focused on clients, focused was enhanced by group-led PR and advertising for the global rebrand, which helped to cement trust in, and recognition of, on performance the Aviva name in both established and new markets and by our own marketing efforts which helped to raise Aviva Investors Aviva Investors combines the groups asset profile in a competitive market.
management components into a single, globally Aviva Investors also received a number of external accolades integrated business.
We manage internal funds in Austria, Singapore, Australia and the UK.
In November we for Aviva, as well as for a growing range of were proud to work alongside the United Nations for the launch of their report on sustainable stock exchanges, a programme institutional and retail third party clients.
Our that is continuing in 2010. focus on client service has brought external Outlook recognition and contributed to a strong Since Aviva Investors launched in September 2008 we have performance in 2009. made strong progress.
The loss of confidence in financial markets has meant that clients are increasingly looking for Strategy risk-aware investment options and, as an insurance-owned Our core strategic objective is to build our presence as a globally asset manager, we are well placed to capitalise on that trend.
integrated asset manager and establish Aviva Investors as a We look forward to 2010 with confidence and anticipation.
leading player in the market for retirement solutions.
We aim to increase revenues and profitability by delivering significant growth in higher-margin assets under management Listening to our clients from external clients.
First Securities Investment Trust FSITC is a leading asset The key strategic imperatives central to our success are: manager, marketing investment products to customers in our commitment to client focus, delivering investment Taiwan.
In 2009, we won a mandate to handle a new global solutions that fully meet their requirements high yield product through our high yield investment team in delivering strong investment performance to underpin North America.
We supported the local Aviva Investors team product sales activity in Taiwan and managed FSITCs successful initial offering.
finalising the roll-out of a global business development As a follow-up, we initiated a customer survey to ensure function with a footprint in mature and emerging markets that issues and insights from FSITC were captured and acted a high performance culture that rewards those who make upon.
Despite the significant commercial success of the new the strongest contribution to the achievement of our goals launch the survey uncovered some concerns and a need for further increases in business effectiveness and efficiency improvement on operations and communications.
through the adoption of global core processes We were able to act quickly and decisively to resolve these concerns.
FSITCs response was very positive: our actions had Market environment shown that we had listened to their feedback at a senior level, Following a turbulent start to 2009, market conditions improved creating a much stronger relationship.
with some markets registering their best annual performance in over 20 years.
The pace of any further rally across markets is Investors operating profit m likely to be more modest with the uncertainty around central MCEV IFRS banks removing stimulus measures.
Although some economies remain in recession, we remain optimistic that recovery will 09 40 115 gather pace.
08 41 Performance 114 IFRS operating profit was in line with the prior year at 07 64 115 million while funds under management increased 6% 147 to 250 billion as markets recovered.
Our financial results 06 57 are discussed in more detail on page 48 of this report.
112 A number of positive trends emerged to support our 05 36 strategic objectives in 2009.
Our focus on client service gained 77 us improved rankings in UK-focused independent client service investment performance surveys for investment quality.
Investment performance was also an area of strength.
Where clients have specified performance benchmarks, Aviva Investors Funds under management bn has met or exceeded 83% of these over one year and 68% over three years, with particularly strong performance in France, 09 250 Australia and Poland.
We also generated record levels of 08 236 performance fees.
Our liquidity funds attracted strong inflows in France and 07 235 the UK and from our continental European distribution channel through our SICAV range.
In the UK, our Sterling Government Liquidity and Sterling Liquidity Funds gained Standard & Poors highest possible AAAm stability rating.
We have made significant progress in developing a global marketing, sales and distribution capability, re-engineering our global business development function to facilitate sales to
