Governance 83 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Directors report Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The directors submit their annual report and accounts for With the exception of restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares Aviva plc, together with the consolidated financial statements under the Companys employee share incentive plans while the of the Aviva Group of companies, for the year ended shares are subject to the rules of the plan, there are no 31 December 2009. restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to present a ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
business review in this Directors Report.
The information that Where, under an employee share plan operated by the fulfils this requirement can be found in the Performance Review Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares, on pages 9 to 66, which includes a review of the Groups but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally operations, current position and future prospects, a description exercised at the discretion of the participants.
No person holds of the principal activities of the Group, and principal risks and securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to uncertainties.
This Performance Review, the Corporate control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report are agreements between holders of securities that may result in incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Details of restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Unless material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association the year are contained in note 3 to the consolidated financial of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may statements.
only be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
At the 2010 Annual General Results Meeting shareholders will be asked to adopt new Articles of Association and further details can be found in the Notice of The Group results for the year are shown in the consolidated Meeting accompanying this annual report and accounts.
There income statement on page 143. are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial Dividends contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered to The directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.00 pence be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business per ordinary share 2008: 19.91 pence, which, together of the Group as a whole.
All of the Companys employee share with the interim dividend of 9.00 pence per ordinary share paid and incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of on control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest 17 November 2009 2008: 13.09 pence, produces a total and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the dividend for the year of 24.00 pence per ordinary share 2008: satisfaction of any performance conditions and pro rata 33.00 pence.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in reduction as may be applicable under the rules of the employee 2009, was 775 million 2008: 902 million.
Subject to share incentive plans.
shareholder approval at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders final dividend for 2009 will be paid on 17 May 2010 to all will be asked to renew the directors authority to allot shares.
holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the Details are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
close of business on 26 March 2010 and approximately five business days later for holders of American Depositary Receipts.
Authority to purchase own shares At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 29 April Share capital and control 2009, shareholders renewed the Companys authorities to make The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased market purchases of up to 265 million ordinary shares, up to by 108,909,750 ordinary shares during the year.
951,455 shares 3 100 million 8 4% preference shares and up to 100 million were allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive 3 8 % preference shares.
These authorities were not used during 8 plans and 107,958,295 shares were allotted under the Aviva the year.
With effect from 1 October 2009, section 725 of the Scrip Dividend Scheme for the May 2009 and November 2009 Companies Act 2006 was repealed with the effect that the dividends.
At 31 December 2009 the issued ordinary share Company is no longer subject to a limit of 10% of its total capital totalled 2,766,611,374 shares of 25 pence each and the issued share capital in respect of the number of its own shares issued preference share capital totalled 200 million shares of 1 that the Company may buy back and hold in treasury.
Accordingly, the issued ordinary share capital constituted regulation repealing section 725 also extended the validity 78% of the Companys total issued share capital and the issued period of the authority given to a company to purchase its own preference share capital constituted 22% of the Companys shares, from a maximum of 18 months to a maximum of five total issued share capital at 31 December 2009.
The Company will continue to follow guidelines which Companys shares are fully paid up and quoted on the Main recommend the annual renewal of this authority as a matter Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is listed of best practice for listed companies, unless such guidelines on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of change.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, American Depositary Shares, referenced to ordinary shares, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority for another under a depositary agreement with Citibank.
Details of the year and the resolution will also retain the 10% maximum Companys share capital and shares under option at aggregate number of ordinary shares which the Company 31 December 2009 and shares issued during the year are given can purchase.
Details are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
in notes 28 to 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company held no treasury shares during the year.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and preference shares as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House and the Companys website, www.
com, or by writing to the Company Secretary.
84 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit As at 3 March 2010, in accordance with the provisions of the of each director of the Company, and each person who was a Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services director of the Company during the year, in respect of liabilities Authority, the Company had received the following notifications that may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the relating to the holding percentage of the total voting rights Company or of associated companies.
These indemnities were attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: granted at different times according to the law in place at the Legal & General Group plc held 4.24%: Axa S. A held 3.86% time and where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity and BlackRock, Inc. held 5.09%.
The Company also received a provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act notification from Barclays plc that following the sale of its 2006.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and Barclays Global Investors subsidiary it ceased to hold any are currently in force.
Details of directors remuneration, service ordinary shares in the Company.
contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors The following persons served as directors of the Company Financial instruments during the year: Aviva Group companies use financial instruments to manage certain types of risks including those relating to credit, foreign Nikesh Arora resigned 5 August 2009 currency exchange, cash flow, liquidity, interest rates, and Wim Dik retired 29 April 2009 equity and property prices.
Details of the objectives and Mary Francis management of these instruments are contained in the Richard Karl Goeltz Performance Review on pages 9 to 66 and an indication of the Euleen Goh appointed 1 January 2009 exposure of the Group companies to such risks is contained in Mark Hodges note 56 to the consolidated financial statements.
Andrea Moneta appointed 29 September 2009 Andrew Moss Health and safety Carole Piwnica The health and safety of the Groups employees is a priority and Philip Scott retired 26 January 2010 is reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business within the Group Lord Sharman of Redlynch has an appointed health and safety representative, whose role is Leslie Van fide Walle appointed 6 May 2009 to bring to the attention of senior management any areas of Russell Walls concern that should be addressed within the health and safety Scott Wheway programme.
Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff through the normal communication The biographical details of the persons currently serving as channels.
Under the Groups Health and Safety Policy the Group directors appear on pages 80 to 81.
Chief Executive is accountable for health and safety.
The Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the directors to retire by rotation each year and also require Charitable donations each director to retire at intervals of not more than three years.
The Company has continued to support community initiatives At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Lord Sharman, the Chairman, and Scott Wheway, a non-executive director, will and charitable causes worldwide in line with our strategy which focuses on education, financial literacy and life trauma.
The retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Andrew Moss, the Group Chief Executive will also retire and total Group commitment, including cash support and employee time during the year was 8.0 million 2008: 9.6 million.
Leslie Van fide Walle, Andrea Moneta, Michael Hawker and Patrick Regan will offer In 2009, the Groups community investment in the UK totalled 4.4 million 2008: 5.6 million of which over 1.3 themselves for election by shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting being the first such meeting after their million 2008: 2.2 million was given in the form of donations and time to charitable organisations.
In late 2009 the Company appointment to the Board.
Leslie Van fide Walle and Michael Hawker are non-executive directors and were appointed to the launched a new global five-year community initiative Street to School.
Avivas Street to School programmes will focus on Board on 6 May 2009 and 1 January 2010 respectively.
Andrea Moneta and Patrick Regan are executive directors and have partnerships that enable and encourage street children back into education and training programmes.
The vision for this new service contracts with a Group company, details of which can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Wim Dik retired global commitment is summarised in the Companys mission statement for this project initiative: We recognise that every from the Board at last years Annual General Meeting in line with the Boards plans to renew and refresh its composition, child living or working on the street has a right to fulfil their potential.
Together, we will champion the needs of street while Philip Scott retired from the board on 26 January 2010 following a 36 year career with the Group, which began with children in the communities in which we live and work.
The Company also continues its global partnership with the Oxfam Norwich Union.
365 Alliance which ensures that Oxfam can maintain a state of Directors interests and indemnity arrangements constant preparedness, enabling them to respond immediately to emergencies wherever they occur in the world.
The Company At no time during the year did any director hold a material promotes a strong volunteering policy and employees are interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any entitled to up to three days annually to support volunteering of its subsidiary undertakings other than an indemnity provision activities.
The Company allocates a part of its budget to between each director and the Company and service contracts matching contributions to charitable causes raised by staff and between each executive director and a Group company.
The for providing financial support to charities and communities Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year where members of staff give a personal commitment in terms directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and of their time.
The directors also have the benefit of the indemnity Governance 85 Performance review Aviva plc Directors report continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information See page 68 for details of how our businesses are supporting Employee practice their local communities in line with the Companys strategy.
The Group respects all fundamental human rights and is guided in the conduct of its business by the provisions of the United Political donations Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the At the Annual General Meeting held in 2009, shareholders International Labour Organisation core labour standards.
Aviva passed a resolution, on a precautionary basis, to authorise the also supports the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
Company to make political donations and or incur political Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 379 of opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their gender, the Companies Act 2006 in amounts not exceeding 100,000 sexual orientation, marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, in aggregate.
disability, age, religion or union membership status.
Aviva is an The definitions used in the Companies Act 2006 are broad inclusive employer and values diversity in its employees.
These in nature and this authority was sought to ensure that any commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, activities undertaken throughout the Groups businesses which career development, flexible working arrangements, promotion could otherwise be construed to fall within these provisions and performance appraisal.
In the event of employees becoming could be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment During the year, the Companys American subsidiary, Aviva with the Group continues and to provide specialised training USA, through its employee-funded Political Action Committee, where this is appropriate.
made contributions to two different industry bodies, which could be construed to fall within the political donations Corporate responsibility provisions.
The first contribution was the sum of $2,000 in The Group has a well established corporate responsibility July 2009, to the Federation of Iowa Insurers Political Action programme and continues to use its position to influence other Committee and the second contribution was the sum of $4,000 companies to engage in sustainable business practices and to to the American Council of Life Insurers Political Action be open and transparent in the information they publicly report.
The donations are used to support In November 2009 the Company announced its intention to candidates for nomination and or election to public office.
It is put its Corporate Responsibility Report to an advisory vote of not the policy of the Company to make donations to EU political shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting as a means organisations or to incur other political expenditure.
of obtaining feedback on the report and the Companys As the authority granted at the 2009 Annual General performance in this area.
The report is set out on page 68 and Meeting will expire on 28 April 2010, renewal of this authority further details of the resolution are set out in the Notice of is being sought at this years Annual General Meeting.
details are available in the Notice of Meeting.
Creditor payment policy and practice Group employees It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when Performance Review.
negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those In summary, the Groups commitment to communication terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant and dialogue with employees continues.
The introduction of terms and conditions.
The Company has no trade creditors.
a truly group-wide intranet has enabled, for the first time, In respect of Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to engagement and communication with employees throughout trade creditors at 31 December 2009 represented approximately the Group on a single platform.
It also helps management to 23 days of average daily purchases through the year 2008: share information, ideas and opportunities much faster across 37 days.
A strong emphasis is placed on the provision of news and information through a range of media.
Employees Corporate Governance Statement have opportunities to voice their opinions and ask questions In compliance with Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTRs through intranet sites, Question and Answer sessions with the 7.2.
1, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 can be Group Chief Executive, via telephone conferencing, opinion found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 87 to 92 surveys and the Groups Employee Promise Survey which is open which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Face-to-face briefings and team meetings are actively encouraged and are held in all business units across the Group.
The Groups businesses in the UK have established employee consultative forums and a European Consultative Forum convenes annually to discuss matters impacting the business across Europe.
The Group ensures that involvement of employees in its performance is encouraged by allowing eligible employees to participate in the Groups all employee share ownership plans.
On 2 June 2009, the Companys celebrations on becoming One Aviva saw employees taking part in social and community events in every country in which the Group operates.
Team activities took place in all businesses to welcome the new global brand, raise funds for good causes and heighten awareness of Avivas global commitment to corporate responsibility.
86 Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Reappointment of the auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out below in the Audit Committee report.
The directors in office at the date of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Ernst & Young LLP are unaware and each director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Ernst & Young LLP are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The 2010 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 28 April 2010 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
A separate document accompanying this annual report and accounts contains the Notice convening the Meeting and a description of the business to be conducted thereat.
By order of the Board Andrew Moss Group chief executive 3 March 2010 Registered Office: St. Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England No.
