Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 2.
Andrew Moss 13 Chairman Age 67 Group chief executive Age 52 Appointed to the Board in January 2005 Appointed to the Board in May 2004. and became Chairman in January 2006.
Joined as Group Finance Director and Currently an independent non-executive became Group Chief Executive in July director of BG Group plc utility and 2007.
Previously director finance, risk Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
Former management and operations at Lloyds chairman of Aegis Group plc media of London insurance and formerly held services and KPMG International a number of senior management auditors, former deputy chairman of positions at HSBC plc banking.
Group 4 Securicor plc security services, Member of the corporate responsibility former member of the supervisory board and nomination committees.
of ABN AMRO N. V. banking and a former independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery plc hospitality and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Chairman of the Board and nomination committee and member of the corporate responsibility committee.
Governance 81 Performance review Aviva plc Board of directors continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 3.
Patrick Regan Chairman of the risk and regulatory and a member of the biotech advisory Chief financial officer Age 44 committee and a member of the audit, board of Monsanto biotechnology.
Appointed to the Board in February 2010 nomination and remuneration Former chairman of Amylum Group as Chief Financial Officer.
Former nongroup chief financial officer and group executive director and vicechairman of chief operating officer at Willis Group 7.
Richard Karl Goeltz governmental affairs for Tate & Lyle plc Holdings Limited insurance broking.
Senior independent non-executive agricultural industrial and a nonFormerly group financial controller for director Age 67 executive director of S A Spadel N. V. RSA plc insurance and finance and Appointed to the Board in May 2004. food and beverages.
Chairman of the claims director, UK general insurance for Currently a non-executive director of the corporate responsibility committee and Axa Insurance insurance.
He also held a Warnaco Group Inc clothing, the New member of the remuneration committee.
number of senior management positions Germany Fund investment trust, the at GE Capital financial services and Central Europe and Russia Fund investment 11.
Leslie Van fide Walle specialised in corporate finance and trust, the European Equity Fund investment Independent non-executive director investigations at Grant Thornton trust and a governor of The London School Age 53 professional services.
of Economics and Political Science.
Former Appointed to the Board in May 2009. vice chairman and chief financial officer of Formerly chief executive officer of Rexam 4.
Mark Hodges American Express Company financial plc packaging, executive vice president Executive director Age 44 services and director and chief financial of retail for oil products and head of oil Appointed to the Board in June 2008. officer of NatWest Group plc banking.
products, a division of Shell Europe Royal Joined Norwich Union in January 1991 Former non-executive director of Delta Air Dutch Shell plc and non-executive director and held a number of senior roles within Lines, Inc transport and Federal Home of Aegis Group plc media services.
the finance function before becoming Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac Formerly held a number of senior finance director of Norwich Union financial services and a former member management positions with Cadbury Insurance in 1998, managing director of of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Schweppes plc consumer goods and Norwich Union General Insurance in 2005 Member of the audit and nomination United Biscuits Limited consumer goods.
and chief executive of Norwich Union committees.
Member of the remuneration and risk and Life, the Groups long-term savings regulatory committees.
Euleen Goh chief executive of Aviva UK, comprising Independent non-executive director 12.
Russell Walls Age 54 Aviva UK Life formerly Norwich Union Independent non-executive director Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Age 66 Life, and Aviva UK General Insurance formerly Norwich Union Insurance, the Currently a non-executive director of Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Singapore Airlines Limited transport, Currently non-executive director of Signet Groups insurance and motoring services DBS Bank Limited and DBS Group Jewelers Limited retail and treasurer and business in the UK, in January 2010.
Holdings Ltd banking and the Singapore trustee of The British Red Cross.
Former chief executive group finance director of BAA plc Executive director Age 44 officer of Standard Chartered Bank in transport, Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals Appointed to the Board in September 2009.
Member of the audit and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former nonJoined as chief executive of Aviva Europe in and corporate responsibility committees.
executive director of Delphic Diagnostics July 2008, and currently chief executive Limited medical, senior independent nonofficer, Aviva Europe, Middle East and 9.
Michael Hawker executive director of Stagecoach Group plc Africa.
Previously managing director of Independent non-executive director transport and Hilton Group plc leisure Age 50 Dubai Financial Group financial services and a former non-executive director of the Appointed to the Board in January 2010. and formerly held a number of senior Mersey Docks and Harbour Company Currently an advisory board director at executive positions with UniCredit transport.
Chairman of the audit General Enterprise Management Services banking, the European Central Bank committee and a member of the International Limited GEMS, the Hong banking, and Accenture consulting.
nomination and the risk and regulatory Kong-based private equity firm and a committees.
Mary Francis CBE Rugby Union.
Formerly chief executive Independent non-executive director 13.
Scott Wheway Age 61 and managing director of Insurance Independent non-executive director Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Australia Group Limited insurance, the Age 43 Currently senior independent director of largest general insurance company in Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Centrica plc utilities, a non-executive Australia.
Member of the risk and Currently chief executive of Best Buy Europe director of Cable & Wireless plc telecoms regulatory committee.
Former director of The Boots and a director of Almeida Theatre Company plc pharmacy and managing Company Limited.
Carole Piwnica director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Chatham House and Governor of the Independent non-executive director Boots plc.
Formerly held a number of senior Age 52 Pensions Policy Institute.
Formerly Director management positions at Tesco plc retail Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
A General of the Association of British services.
Chairman of the remuneration member of the New York and Paris Bars.
Insurers, non-executive director of the committee and member of the corporate Currently a director of Naxos UK private Bank of England, Alliance & Leicester plc responsibility committee.
equity and a non-executive director of banking, Fund Distribution Limited, Toepfer International GmbH trading, St Modwen Properties plc property Dairy Crest Group plc dairy products development and a senior civil servant.
