The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 5 Managers Review it now comprises over 11% of assets, nearly doubling over the year.
The UK also received further investment, principally into smaller and mid-sized companies which lagged the recovery Alex Crooke and offered good value.
Managers Review We have witnessed a sharp reduction in dividends from our Stockmarkets have always been prone to swinging up or portfolio: a fall of over 20% in UK income and smaller down much further than justified by underlying fundamentals reductions in European and American income.
We have offset just as investor sentiment can swing widely between despair the dividend cuts by increasing underwriting income, and euphoria.
This time last year I reported one of the biggest benefiting from a full year of interest from the bonds we falls in share prices in 100 years and now, this year, we have bought last year and from gains on overseas income when witnessed one of the largest rebounds in market history.
Overall, we have limited the Fundamentals seem scarcely to matter, as monetary liquidity is fall in income to a 7.3% reduction in earnings per share over the dominant factor at play, as governments engage in the year.
We expect that this should be the nadir with a quantitative easing.
With near zero returns on cash or resumption in growth of earnings per share in the months technically negative taking into account CPI inflation, ahead underpinning future dividend growth.
investors are seeking out returns on riskier assets from corporate bonds to property or commodities.
The bond portfolio is not a permanent feature of the portfolio but represented an attractive investment opportunity at the Our performance this year is close to our benchmark, slightly time of purchase both in terms of capital and income.
We behind on an ungeared basis and ahead when taking into took the decision to buy a wide selection of financial bonds, account gearing and a VAT reclaim see page 17.
It has been as these represented the most distressed of bond assets.
While very challenging at both the stock selection and geographic not every purchase has worked out, the whole bond portfolio allocation levels.
Our safety first investment process, focusing delivered a total return of 41.0%, including over 1.6m of on quality over distressed recovery, was less in favour in income.
With prices recovering to more normal levels we developed markets and led to relative underperformance in expect to be selling down the bonds in due course and the UK, Europe and the USA.
Governments have spent more reinvesting into equities.
than we anticipated bailing out industries and financial institutions and therefore companies that might have needed Currency movements have generally been in our favour as further restructuring have survived and witnessed a sharp sterling has again been weak although it showed a little more rebound in share prices.
We still feel that a price will be paid strength in the latter period of the year.
The current weakness for the government stimulus in terms of higher taxes and of sterling is attracting inward property investment and bids lower growth.
When this becomes apparent we expect the for UK companies from overseas companies, but the outlook focus to return to businesses with strong balance sheets and for interest rates and the policies to reduce the fiscal deficit which are able to invest through the downturn.
will be the key determining factors behind any future rally.
At the geographic level returns in sterling around the world We have been steadily reinvesting our cash balances as our have diverged widely from the anaemic 4.6% return we confidence has increased that the economic recovery will last.
generated from our North American portfolio to the 79.6% However, we still retained 19m of cash at the end of October growth in the Emerging Markets portfolio.
While not having which will allow flexibility when investment opportunities arise the perfect mix of overseas assets, the overweight Asia and in the coming year, as the recovery from the downturn is likely underweight North America positions were most beneficial to to be far from smooth.
our performance relative to the benchmark.
Over the year we reduced Japan after a period of strong performance both by stock selection and currency.
We increased Asia materially and Alex Crooke
