The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 29 Report of the Directors continued Relations with Shareholders Company, please forward this document with its Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the accompanying form of proxy at once to the purchaser or Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent Company communicates with shareholders is through the through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for Half-Year and Annual Report and Financial Statements onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
which aim to provide shareholders with a clear The AGM will be held on Tuesday 23 February 2010 at 2.30 pm.
understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 63 and 64.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication at the Stock Exchange of the net Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption asset value NAV of the Companys ordinary shares and a Rights monthly fact sheet.
On 26 February 2009 the directors were granted authority to Information about the Company can be found at allot a limited number of authorised but unissued ordinary www.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in February 2010.
Authority was also given to the directors to At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager allot securities of a limited value for cash without first offering following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have them to existing shareholders in accordance with statutory the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and pre-emption procedures.
This too will expire at the AGM in the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
Appropriate resolutions to renew both authorities will be It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and proposed at the 2010 AGM and are set out in full in the Notice Financial Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to of Annual General Meeting on pages 63 and 64.
An ordinary shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days resolution will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so by 2,799,776 being 10% of the issued share capital as at the writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on date of the Notice of the AGM.
A special resolution will also be the inside back cover of this report.
At other times the proposed to give the directors authority to allot securities for Company responds to letters from shareholders on a range cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum aggregate of issues.
nominal amount of 2,799,776 being 10% of the Companys General presentations to both shareholders and analysts issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
follow the announcement of the annual results.
All The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these meetings between the Manager and shareholders are authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in reported to the Board.
the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be Exercise of Voting Powers advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so The Company has approved a corporate governance voting and when it would not result in any dilution of NAV per share, policy which accords with current best practice whilst the NAV being calculated with debt at fair value.
maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
If renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2011.
Annual General Meeting AGM The following information is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about Authority to Make Market Purchases of the Companys the action you should take, you should seek advice from Own Shares your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or At the AGM held on 26 February 2009, the Company was other independent financial adviser, authorised under authorised and sanctioned to make market purchases of up to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have 16,955,162 of the Companys own issued ordinary shares.
sold or transferred all of your voting rights in the Since the AGM the Company has made market purchases for
