20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors While the Company will mainly invest in international equities The directors present their report and the there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as audited financial statements for the Group convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is for the year ended 31 October 2009. deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Company in the Business Review pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments The following review is designed to provide information such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will primarily about the Companys business and results for the only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The business review should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment 3 and 4 and the Portfolio Managers Report on page 5, which portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it gives a detailed review of the investment activities for the year invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any other and an outlook for the future.
UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
a Status The Company will at times borrow money, both short and The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw down domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company of borrowings may be in currencies other than Sterling, as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of Net Asset Value at seek HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of its status as the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HMRC risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which at approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has 31 October 2009 contained over 200 individual investments.
been received in respect of the year ended 31 October 2008 At 31 October 2009 the largest single investment was BP although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent which accounted for 4.4% of total investments, while the top enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The directors 25 holdings totalled 33.6% of total investments.
Investment are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct risk may be further reduced through the use of currency its affairs in a manner that will enable it to continue to gain hedging, foreign borrowings and derivatives.
The Company has no employees.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so can be found on page 18, and performance attribution that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17. component of an ISA.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity b Investment objectives and policy throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth and accompanying regional pages.
in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular dividend growth c Financial review in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
To achieve Assets these objectives the Companys investment policy is to invest its Total net assets at 31 October 2009 amounted to assets in a portfolio primarily composed of international equities.
448,863,000 compared with 385,661,000 at 31 October The portfolio is broadly diversified by both geography and sector 2008 and the net asset value per ordinary share increased in order to reduce investment risk.
The Manager has the flexibility by 16.4% from 340.8p to 399.9p.
to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on individual country or sector exposures, although the Board Revenue regularly monitors the Companys investments and the Managers Group net revenue return after taxation for the year was investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom up 13,374,000, a decrease of 7.6% from the previous year.
value based investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
