14 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Pacific ex Japan Total Return Year to 31 Oct 2009 % Bankers 68.2 FTSE World Asia Pacific ex Japan 58.3 Review Activity Following a poor 2008, Asian markets rebounded strongly in During the year we have continued to increase our exposure the year to October 2009 with most indices posting gains of to China which now has the second largest weighting in the over 50% in sterling terms.
The addition of Industrial & Commercial Bank, Chinas largest bank, was the most notable acquisition The thawing of the global financial system and the gradual reflecting our positive view on Chinese financials.
The position improvement in global economic data through the period has in Hong Kong banks was reduced to accommodate this view.
been supportive for Asian equity markets.
Although export Following a strong run in the price of uranium we reduced growth from the region has remained subdued the strength of our position in Energy Resources of Australia and switched the domestic sectors spurred on by supportive monetary and into fertiliser company Incitec Pivot.
Fertiliser prices globally fiscal policy has more than compensated.
have been subdued due to oversupply and lower demand The best performing market over the period was China reflecting following sustained periods of bad weather.
We believe the the success of its policy response.
The $585bn stimulus package outlook for 2010 is much better and are confident of a put in place towards the end of 2008, focused on infrastructure significant re-rating.
and was accompanied by abundant credit, which proved highly We added Singaporean industrial property REIT Ascendas to successful in reviving domestic activity.
Similar policies were the portfolio following an unwarranted sell off and also pursued elsewhere in the region allowing Asian economies to introduced a position in Kasikornbank in Thailand which looks recover faster than most other areas.
particularly cheap considering the positive economic numbers The worst performing markets were the export orientated being posted.
countries of Taiwan and Korea which suffered as the demand Overall the portfolio remains focused on domestic Asia with a for western consumer goods waned.
Australia managed to preference for Hong Kong and China and selective regional perform broadly in line with the rest of the region despite financials and property.
Banks in Asia are liquid and well concerns over the levels of debt within the economy.
The capitalised, unlike their peers in developed countries, and are fiscal surpluses built up over the last few years have put the cornerstones of the Asian structural growth story.
Poor Australia in a strong position to ride out the storm and this sentiment for the sector globally provides an excellent combined with supportive commodity prices ensured that it opportunity to own these valuable franchises at a discount to was the only developed country not to go into recession in their long term average valuations.
The strong economic recovery in China led to materials being the best performing sector while telecoms lagged over Outlook fears of slowing demand and increased competition.
We expect markets to remain volatile through the year end and into the first half of 2010 as investors digest the sustainability of recovery in western markets.
We expect Asian economic growth to remain robust and believe that Asian companies still offer good value in the medium to long term despite the recent strong move in share prices.
