The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck Francis Sumner David Thomas Matthew Thorne Richard Brewster FCA Chairman was appointed as a Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director was director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having appointed as a director in 1997.
He spent most of his working qualified as a chartered accountant he has spent over 30 years life as a City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
From 1983 he was Chief Executive Officer of D. S. for many years a partner in Norton Rose, Bankers having been Smith plc until 1991 when he became Chief Executive Officer one of his plc clients.
He is currently the Deputy Chairman of of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since then he has taken an the Crown Agents and a member of the Council and interest in a number of private equity investments and was Executive Committee of The City and Guilds of London until recently Chief Executive Officer of Interbrandpro Holding Institute.
GmbH, an international promotional print and speciality board business.
He is also Chairman of BlackRock British Smaller David Thomas FIA was appointed as a director in 2000.
He was Director and General Manager of Investments of The Equitable Life Assurance Society until April 2001.
For two Richard Burns was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a years from August 1996 he was Chairman of the Investment former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former Committee of the Association of British Insurers and at that fund manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a time was also a member of the Hampel Committee on director of EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova Corporate Governance.
In addition he sat on the Institutional European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian Investors Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several Investment Trust plc, Mid Wynd International Investment years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors Honorary Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
From Investment Advisory Committee which assisted the Public 1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC.
Currently, he is a trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbeys Richard Killingbeck was appointed as a director in 2003.
Investment Committee, as well as being an investment adviser He has been involved in the financial services industry for 20 to the Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund.
years, primarily as a fund manager.
He has held a number of senior positions in the industry both in London and New York Matthew Thorne FCA was appointed as a director on including being the Chief Executive Officer of Singer & 27 November 2008.
Mr Thorne is an adviser to the Consensus Friedlander Investment Management.
He joined the asset Business Group.
He was Group Finance Director of McCarthy management subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc in 2005 & Stone plc and also Investment Director for Beazer plc.
A and was appointed deputy Chief Executive of Close qualified Chartered Accountant, he has significant experience Investments in 2006, and Chief Executive Officer of its Private as a finance director, predominantly in the property sector.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
