6% 17% 8 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2009 Europe Total Return Year to 31 Oct 2009 % Bankers 23.9 FTSE World Europe ex UK 29.6 Review Hopefully that is the case and, with economies stabilised and The last twelve months have seen a sharp rally in European the banking system returning to life, the situation looks far markets and a decline in sterling which has therefore made better than early in calendar 2009. the returns even higher.
Our weighting in Europe has We expect that the strong signs of economic recovery will remained low and at year end European investments continue and, with most companies having cut costs sharply, represented about 8.6% of the overall fund.
the fall in profits has not been as severe as was first feared.
The performance of our holdings has lagged behind the index Strong profits growth will only happen if there is a follow up with an increase of 23.9% compared with 29.6%.
The of strong demand and it may be too early to judge this.
There previous year had shown the benefit of the quality of our is also a bill to be paid for the huge rescue which was put in holdings as such companies declined by less than the index.
place twelve months ago and, as normality returns, so will the The last six months has seen the opposite, with quality need to work out how the bill is going to be repaid.
It is likely companies lagging a strong rally in financials and cyclicals, that growth will look good for the early part of 2010 but then both areas where we have limited exposure.
We intend, therefore, to maintain a blend of quality growth companies with more economically sensitive Activity companies.
There have been a number of changes to our holdings during the year.
Apart from an overall reduction across the portfolio to raise cash we have sold a few stocks where we felt the outlook remained subdued.
A prime example in this category would be Neopost which, although well managed, is likely to struggle as mail volumes stagnate, some ten years after initial expectations of a decline, due to increased electronic communication.
We have added five new holdings: Bureau Veritas in the European portfolio classified by market inspection and certification area, Siemens medical technology, value of company at 31 October 2009 lighting and power generation and transmission and general engineering and Daimler, based not just on the recovery in car Market Capitalisation sales but in particular the truck side.
We have also added A Over 13,000m B Synthes, a world leader in orthopaedics and UBS.
The intention B 3,000m-13,000m C Under 3,000m of these moves is to secure exposure to quality names that 54% 42% Last years figures in brackets 40% 41% should benefit as the economic recovery gathers pace.
A The overall emphasis in the fund remains one of quality, consistency and reliability of growth combined with an element of income where possible.
C Outlook The despondency of a year ago has been replaced by an almost universal degree of optimism that the worst is behind us.
