com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 187 Corporate governance Accountability and audit Going concern executive and principal financial officers of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely to PLC to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards are discussed in the Business Review.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated Standards Board IASB.
economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to preparing accounts.
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with Internal control authorisations of management and the respective Directors of Barclays PLC The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain and Barclays Bank PLC: and provide reasonable assurance regarding an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of assets that could have a material affect on the financial statements.
to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections year ended 31st December 2009, and to date, the Group has operated a of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk system of internal control which provides reasonable assurance of effective that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial and conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Management has assessed the effectiveness of Barclays PLC facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised and Barclays Bank PLCs internal control over financial reporting as of Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial 31st December 2009.
In making its assessment, Management has utilised Reporting Council.
The Board regularly reviews these processes through its the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of principal Board Committees.
the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Integrated Framework.
The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control Management concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certification process is over financial reporting of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC was effective conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The effectiveness as of 31st December 2009. of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas.
Regular reports Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, Internal Audit and on Barclays PLCs internal control over financial reporting which is set out on the finance, compliance and legal functions covering particularly financial page 192. controls, compliance and operational controls.
The Board Audit Committee This annual report does not include a report of our registered public monitors resolution of any identified control issues of Group level significance accounting firm on Barclays Bank PLCs internal control over financial through to a satisfactory conclusion.
Barclays Bank PLCs internal control over financial reporting The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF describes is not subject to assessment by our registered public accounting firm the Groups approach to internal control and details Group policies and pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Group Chief that permit Barclays Bank PLC to provide only the managements report Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject significance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk and legal risk.
to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further Reports covering credit, market and operational risk, key risks, risk information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided measurement methodologies and risk appetite are made to the Board Risk under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Management section on Committee.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the pages 145 to 146.
Risk management section on pages 87 to 93.
Changes in internal control over financial reporting Managements report on internal control over financial reporting There have been no changes in Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLCs The management of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC collectively in ternal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate covered by this report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial to materially affect Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLCs internal control over reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal financial reporting.
188 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Corporate governance Accountability and audit continued Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts Disclosure controls and procedures The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the The Group Chief Executive, John Varley, and the Group Finance Director, Auditors report set out on page 191, is made with a view to distinguishing Chris Lucas, conducted with Group Management an evaluation of the for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls auditors in relation to the accounts.
and procedures as at 31st December 2009, which are defined as those The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the US Securities Exchange Act accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and Union.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the forms.
As of the date of the evaluation, the Group Chief Executive and Group financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for Finance Director concluded that the design and operation of these that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: presentation.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 193 to a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set 308, and the additional information contained on pages 327 to 335, the of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the undertakings judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and consider to be applicable have been followed.
b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company on pages 147 to 150, includes a fair review of the development and and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Signed on behalf of the Board to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 9th March 2010 Financial statements 190 Presentation of information 191 Independent Auditors Report 192 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report 193 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC 193 Accounting policies 203 Accounting developments 204 Consolidated income statement 205 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 206 Consolidated balance sheet 207 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 208 Consolidated cash flow statement 209 Parent Company accounts 212 Notes to the accounts 309 Barclays Bank PLC data
