190 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Presentation of information Barclays PLC is a public limited company registered in England under Draft BBA Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure company number 48839.
The Company, originally named Barclay & In accordance with the agreement set out in the FSA discussion paper, Company Limited, was incorporated in England and Wales on 20th July Enhancing financial reporting disclosure by UK credit institutions, Barclays 1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company limited by confirms that it has complied with the draft BBA Code for Financial shares.
The company name was changed to Barclays Bank Limited on Reporting Disclosure.
17th February 1917 and it was reregistered in 1982 as a public limited In October 2009, the British Bankers Association published a draft company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980.
On 1st January 1985, Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
The draft Code sets out five the company changed its name to Barclays PLC.
disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are Barclays Bank PLC is a public limited company registered in England that UK banks will: provide high quality, meaningful and decision-useful under company number 1026167.
The Bank was incorporated on disclosures: review and enhance their financial instrument disclosures for 7th August 1925 under the Colonial Bank Act 1925 and on 4th October key areas of interest: assess the applicability and relevance of good practice 1971 was registered as a company limited by shares under the Companies recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of Acts 1948 to 1967.
Pursuant to The Barclays Bank Act 1984, on 1st January such guidance: seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement 1985 the Bank was reregistered as a public limited company and its name disclosures across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their was changed from Barclays Bank International Limited to Barclays Bank PLC.
annual reports between information that is audited and information that All of the issued ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank PLC is owned is unaudited.
The Annual Report for Barclays PLC also contains the The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the consolidated accounts of, and other information relating to, Barclays Bank draft Code in their 2009 financial statements.
The Annual Report includes information required to be included in the statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the draft Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2009.
Codes principles and the Group aims to continue to enhance its disclosures Form 20-F will contain as exhibits certificates pursuant to Sections 302 and in line with developing market practice and areas of focus.
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, signed by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, with respect to both Barclays PLC and Barclays Statutory Accounts Bank PLC.
Except where otherwise indicated, the information given is The consolidated accounts of Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries are set out identical with respect to both Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
on pages 193 to 308 along with the accounts of Barclays PLC itself on The accounts of Barclays Bank PLC included in this document do not pages 209 to 211.
The consolidated accounts of Barclays Bank PLC and its comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 434 of the subsidiaries are set out on pages 309 to 326.
The accounting policies on Companies Act 2006.
The statutory accounts of Barclays Bank PLC, which pages 193 to 203 and the Notes commencing on page 212 apply equally to contain an unqualified audit report and do not contain any statement both sets of accounts unless otherwise stated.
under Section 498 2 or 3 of that Act, will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with Section 441 of that Act and are published as a separate document.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 191 Independent Auditors report Independent Auditors report to the members of Barclays PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the financial statements of Barclays PLC for the year ended In our opinion: 31st December 2009 which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent income the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly statements and the related Consolidated statements of comprehensive prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: income, Consolidated and Parent balance sheet, Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Consolidated cash flow statements.
The financial the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by statements: and the European Union.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement with Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities for capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
A ccounts, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards opinion: Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 not visited by us: or of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures not made: or in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the we have not received all the information and explanations we require financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused for our audit: or by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Parent Company.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
the Directors statement, set out in the Corporate Governance section, Opinion on financial statements in relation to going concern: and In our opinion the financial statements: the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2008 companys affairs as at 31st December 2009 and of the Groups and Combined Code specified for our review.
the Parent Companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and Philip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the  LLP Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
London, United Kingdom 9th March 2010 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Barclays PLC website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdiction.
192 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms report Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Barclays PLC statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated income statements and the included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial related Consolidated balance sheets, Consolidated cash flow statements reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and and, Consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Consolidated evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based statements of changes in equity present fairly, in all material respects, the on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other financial position of Barclays PLC The Company and its subsidiaries at procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe 31st December 2009 and 31st December 2008 and the results of their that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
operations and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process 31st December 2009, in conformity with International Financial Reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external Also, in our opinion the Company maintained, in all material respects, purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2009, A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and Commission COSO.
dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance The Companys management are responsible for these financial that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being reporting, included in Managements report on internal control over made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors financial reporting as it pertains to Barclays PLC in the section headed of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention Accountability and Audit.
or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our statements.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test  LLP basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial London, United Kingdom statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant 9th March 2010 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 193 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies Significant accounting policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting 1.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently These financial statements are prepared for the Barclays PLC Group under exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing whether the Group Section 399 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group is a major global controls another entity.
Details of the principal subsidiaries are given in Note 41. financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment the Group and that entity indicates control.
Potential indicators of control management services.
In addition, individual financial statements have include, amongst others, an assessment of the Groups exposure to the risks been prepared for the holding company, Barclays PLC the Company, and benefits of the SPE.
under Section 397 of the Companies Act 2006.
This assessment of risks and benefits is based on arrangements in place Barclays PLC is a public limited company, incorporated in England and and the assessed risk exposures at inception.
The initial assessment is Wales having a registered office in England and is the holding company of reconsidered at a later date if: the Group.
a the Group acquires additional interests in the entity: 2.
Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards b the contractual arrangements of the entity are amended such that the The consolidated financial statements of the Barclays PLC Group, and relative exposure to risks and benefits change: or the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS c if the Group acquires control over the main operating and financial and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting decisions of the entity.
Interpretations Committee IFRIC, as published by the International Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is Accounting Standards Board IASB.
They are also in accordance with transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the consolidated and individual financial statements are set out below.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair policies have been consistently applied.
Changes in accounting policy are value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred set out on page 203. or assumed, plus any costs directly related to the acquisition.
Basis of preparation The excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups share of the The consolidated and individual financial statements have been prepared fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
under the historical cost convention modified to include the fair valuation See accounting policy 14 for the accounting policy for goodwill.
A gain on of investment property, certain financial instruments and contracts to buy acquisition is recognised in profit or loss if there is an excess of the Groups or sell non-financial items and trading inventories to the extent required share of the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired over the cost or permitted under accounting standards and as set out in the relevant of the acquisition.
Intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated accounting polices.
They are stated in millions of pounds Sterling m, on consolidation and consistent accounting policies are used throughout the currency of the country in which Barclays PLC is incorporated.
the Group for the purposes of the consolidation.
As the consolidated financial statements include partnerships where Critical accounting estimates a Group member is a partner, advantage has been taken of the exemption The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires under Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 with the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management regard to the preparation and filing of individual partnership financial to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The notes to the financial statements set out areas involving a higher degree In the individual financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions are significant to stated at cost less impairment, if any.
the consolidated and individual financial statements such as fair value of financial instruments Note 50, allowance for impairment Note 47, Associates and joint ventures An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence, but goodwill Note 21, intangible assets Note 22, retirement benefit obligations Note 30, derecognition of financial assets Note 29, taxation not control, over the operating and financial management policy decisions.
Note 10 and credit risk Note 47.
This is generally demonstrated by the Group holding in excess of 20%, but no more than 50%, of the voting rights.
Consolidation A joint venture exists where the Group has a contractual arrangement Subsidiaries with one or more parties to undertake activities typically, though not The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of necessarily, through entities which are subject to joint control.
Barclays PLC and all its subsidiaries, including certain special purpose entities Unless designated as at fair value through profit and loss as set out in SPEs where appropriate, made up to 31st December.
Entities qualify as policy 7, the Groups investments in associates and joint ventures are initially subsidiaries where the Group has the power to govern the financial and recorded at cost and increased or decreased each year by the Groups operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities, 194 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies continued share of the post-acquisition profit or loss, or other movements reflected 6.
Interest, fees and commissions directly in the other comprehensive income of the associated or jointly Interest controlled entity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate or joint Interest is recognised in interest income and interest expense in the income venture is included in the carrying amount of the investment net of any statement for all interest bearing financial instruments classified as held to accumulated impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses or other maturity, available for sale or other loans and receivables using the effective reductions in equity in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds the interest method.
recorded interest, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made cost of a financial asset or liability or group of assets and liabilities and of payments on behalf of the entity.
allocating the interest income or interest expense over the relevant period.
The Groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures is based The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the expected on financial statements made up to a date not earlier than three months future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial before the balance sheet date, adjusted to conform with the accounting instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying polices of the Group.
Unrealised gains on transactions are eliminated to the amount of the instrument.
The application of the method has the effect of extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are also recognising income and expense receivable or payable on the eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment in the instrument evenly in proportion to the amount outstanding over the period asset transferred.
In the individual financial statements, investments in associates and In calculating effective interest, the Group estimates cash flows using joint ventures are stated at cost less impairment, if any.
projections based on its experience of customers behaviour considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument but excluding future credit 5.
Fees, including those for early redemption, are included in the Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are calculation to the extent that they can be measured and are considered to measured using their functional currency, being the currency of the primary be an integral part of the effective interest rate.
Cash flows arising from the economic environment in which the entity operates.
direct and incremental costs of issuing financial instruments are also taken Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate into account in the calculation.
Where it is not possible to otherwise estimate functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument, effective transactions.
Monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are interest is calculated by reference to the payments or receipts specified in retranslated at the rate prevailing at the period end.
Foreign exchange gains the contract, and the full contractual term.
and losses resulting from the retranslation and settlement of these items are Fees and commissions recognised in the income statement except for qualifying cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments.
See policy 12 for the policies on hedge accounting.
Unless included in the effective interest calculation, fees and commissions Non-monetary assets that are measured at fair value are translated ar e recognised on an accruals basis as the service is provided.
Fees and using the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
commissions not integral to effective interest arising from negotiating, or Exchange differences on equities and similar non-monetary items held at participating in the negotiation of a transaction from a third party, such as fair value through profit or loss, are reported as part of the fair value gain or the acquisition of loans, shares or other securities or the purchase or sale loss.
Translation differences on equities classified as available for sale of businesses, are recognised on completion of the underlying transaction.
financial assets and similar non-monetary items are included directly in equity.
Portfolio and other management advisory and service fees are recognised For the purposes of translation into the presentational currency, assets, based on the applicable service contracts.
Asset management fees related liabilities and equity of foreign operations are translated at the closing rate, to investment funds are recognised over the period the service is provided.
and items of income and expense are translated into Sterling at the rates The same principle is applied to the recognition of income from wealth prevailing on the dates of the transactions, or average rates of exchange management, financial planning and custody services that are continuously provided over an extended period of time.
where these approximate to actual rates.
The exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign Commitment fees, together with related direct costs, for loan facilities where draw down is probable are deferred and recognised as an adjustment operation are included in cumulative translation reserves within shareholders equity and included in the profit or loss on disposal or partial to the effective interest on the loan once drawn.
Commitment fees in relation to facilities where draw down is not probable are recognised over disposal of the operation.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign the term of the commitment.
subsidiaries are maintained in the functional currency of the foreign operation, translated at the closing rate and are included in hedges of net investments where appropriate.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 195 Insurance premiums Financial instruments included in this category are recognised initially at fair Insurance premiums are recognised in the period earned.
value and transaction costs are taken directly to the income statement.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included directly in Net trading income the income statement.
Income arises from the margins which are achieved through market-making Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments held for and customer business and from changes in fair value caused by movements trading or designated under the fair value option are recognised on trade in interest and exchange rates, equity prices and other market variables.
date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the Trading positions are held at fair value and the resulting gains and losses are asset.
The fair value option is used in the following circumstances: included in the income statement, together with interest and dividends arising from long and short positions and funding costs relating to trading activities.
a financial assets backing insurance contracts and financial assets backing investment contracts are designated at fair value through profit or loss Dividends because the related liabilities have cash flows that are contractually based Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
on the performance of the assets or the related liabilities are insurance In the individual financial statements of Barclays PLC, this is when the contracts whose measurement incorporates current information.
Fair dividends are received or when the dividends are appropriately authorised valuing the assets through profit and loss significantly reduces the by the subsidiary.
recognition inconsistencies that would arise if the financial assets were classified as available for sale: 7.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets b financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: financial guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through instruments at fair value through profit or loss: loans and receivables: held to profit or loss if they contain substantive embedded derivatives: maturity investments and available for sale financial assets.
Management determines the classification of financial assets and liabilities at initial c financial assets, loans to customers, financial liabilities, financial guarantees and structured notes may be designated at fair value through recognition.
profit or loss where doing so significantly reduces measurement Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss inconsistencies that would arise if the related derivatives were treated as Financial instruments are classified in this category if they are held for held for trading and the underlying financial instruments were carried at trading, or if they are designated by management under the fair value amortised cost: and option.
Instruments are classified as held for trading if they are: d certain private equity and other investments that are managed, and a acquired principally for the purposes of selling or repurchasing in the evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk near term: management or investment strategy and reported to key management b part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed personnel on that basis.
together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of Loans and receivables short-term profit taking: or Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or fide c a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract terminable payments that are not quoted in an active market and which or a designated and effective hedging instrument.
are not classified as available for sale.
Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value, including direct and incremental transaction costs.
It is not possible to transfer a financial instrument out of this category whilst They are subsequently valued at amortised cost, using the effective interest it is held or issued with the exception of non-derivative financial assets held method see accounting policy 6. for trading which may be transferred out of this category from 1st July 2008 Regular way purchases and sales of loans and receivables are after initial classification where: recognised on contractual settlement.
a in rare circumstances, it is no longer held for the purpose of selling or Held to maturity repurchasing in the near term, or Held to maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or b it is no longer held for the purpose of trading, it would have met the determinable payments that the Groups management has the intention and definition of a loan and receivable on initial classification and the Group ability to hold to maturity.
They are initially recognised at fair value including has the intention and ability to hold it for the foreseeable future or until direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently valued at maturity.
amortised cost, using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6.
196 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies continued Regular way purchases of held to maturity financial assets are Loan commitments recognised on trade date, being the date on which the Group commits Loan commitments, where the Group has a past practice of selling the to purchase the asset.
resulting assets shortly after origination, are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Other loan commitments are accounted for in accordance with Available for sale accounting policy 23.
Available for sale assets are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available for sale and are not categorised into any of the other Financial liabilities categories described above.
They are initially recognised at fair value Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, except for trading including direct and incremental transaction costs.
They are subsequently liabilities and liabilities designated at fair value, which are held at fair value held at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when included as a separate component of equity until sale when the cumulative extinguished.
gain or loss is transferred to the income statement.
Interest determined An exchange of an existing debt instrument for a new instrument with using the effective interest method see accounting policy 6, impairment the lender on substantially different terms is accounted for as an losses and translation differences on monetary items are recognised in the extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new income statement.
An assessment is made as to whether the terms are Regular way purchases and sales of available for sale financial substantially different considering qualitative and quantitive characteristics.
instruments are recognised on trade date, being the date on which the For example, if the discounted present value calculated using the original Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
effective interest rate of the cash flows under the new terms, including fees, A financial asset classified as available for sale that would have met the is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of the definition of loans and receivables may only be transferred from the available remaining cash flows of the original financial liability, or if the qualitative for sale classification where the Group has the intention and the ability to assessment concludes that the nature and risk profile of the original financial hold the asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
liability is materially different from that of the new financial liability based on the terms of the instruments including repayment terms, coupon terms and Embedded derivatives call options, the original financial liability is extinguished.
Some hybrid contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative When an exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or component.
In such cases, the derivative component is termed an fees incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the embedded derivative.
Where the economic characteristics and risks of the extinguishment.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract, liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration and the host contract itself is not carried at fair value through profit or loss, paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is the embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains recognised in profit or loss.
and losses being recognised in the income statement.
Profits or losses cannot be recognised on the initial recognition of Determining fair value embedded derivatives unless the host contract is also carried at fair value.
Where the classification of a financial instrument requires it to be stated at fair value, fair value is determined by reference to a quoted market price for Derecognition of financial assets that instrument or by using a valuation model.
Where the fair value is The Group derecognises a financial asset, or a portion of a financial asset, calculated using valuation models, the methodology is to calculate the where the contractual rights to that asset have expired.
Derecognition is also expected cash flows under the terms of each specific contract and then appropriate where the rights to further cash flows from the asset have been discount these values back to a present value.
These models use as their transferred to a third party and, with them, either: basis independently sourced market parameters including, for example, i substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset: or interest rate yield curves, equities and commodities prices, option volatilities and currency rates.
For financial liabilities measured at fair value, the carrying ii significant risks and rewards, along with the unconditional ability to sell amount reflects the effect on fair value of changes in own credit spreads or pledge the asset.
derived from observable market data, such as spreads on Barclays issued Where significant risks and rewards have been transferred, but the bonds or credit default swaps.
Most market parameters are either directly transferee does not have the unconditional ability to sell or pledge the asset, observable or are implied from instrument prices.
The model may perform the Group continues to account for the asset to the extent of its continuing numerical procedures in the pricing such as interpolation when input values involvement continuing involvement accounting.
do not directly correspond to the most actively traded market trade To assess the extent to which risks and rewards have been transferred, parameters.
However, where valuations include significant unobservable it is often necessary to perform a quantitative analysis.
Such an analysis will inputs, the transaction price is deemed to provide the best evidence of initial compare the Groups exposure to variability in asset cash flows before the fair value for accounting purposes.
As such, profits or losses are recognised transfer with its retained exposure after the transfer.
upon trade inception only when such profits can be measured solely by Where neither derecognition nor continuing involvement accounting reference to observable market data.
For valuations that include significant is appropriate, the Group continues to recognise the asset in its entirety unobservable inputs, the difference between the model valuation and the and recognises any consideration received as a financial liability.
initial transaction price is recognised in profit or loss: www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 197 a on a straight-line basis over the term of the transaction, or over the period receivables that are not individually significant.
If the Group determines that until all model inputs will become observable where appropriate, or: no objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed loan and receivable, whether significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of b released in full where previously unobservable inputs become loans and receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively observable.
Loans and receivables that are individually Various factors influence the availability of observable inputs and these may assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is or continues to vary from product to product and change over time.
Factors include, for be recognised are not included in a collective assessment of impairment.
example, the depth of activity in the relevant market, the type of product, The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between whether the product is new and not widely traded in the marketplace, the the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash maturity of market modelling and the nature of the transaction bespoke or flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
To the extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are the loss is recognised using an allowance account and recognised in the not observable in the market, the determination of fair value can be more income statement.
subjective, dependant on the significance of the unobservable input to the Where appropriate, the calculation of the present value of the estimated overall valuation.
Unobservable inputs are determined based on the best future cash flows of a collateralised loan and receivable asset reflect the cash information available, for example by reference to similar assets, similar flows that may result from foreclosure costs for obtaining and selling the maturities or other analytical techniques.
collateral, whether or not foreclosure is probable.
For the purposes of a collective evaluation of impairment, loans and 8.
Impairment of financial assets receivables are grouped on the basis of similar risk characteristics, taking The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective into account asset type, industry, geographical location, collateral type, pastevidence that loans and receivables or available for sale financial due status and other relevant factors.
These characteristics are relevant to investments are impaired.
These are impaired and impairment losses are the estimation of future cash flows for groups of such assets by being incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result indicative of the counterpartys ability to pay all amounts due according to of one or more loss events that occurred after the initial recognition of the the contractual terms of the assets being evaluated.
asset and prior to the balance sheet date a loss event and that loss event or Future cash flows in a group of loans and receivables that are collectively events has had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial evaluated for impairment are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash asset or the portfolio that can be reliably estimated.
The criteria that the flows of the assets in the group and historical loss experience for assets with Group uses to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment credit risk characteristics similar to those in the group.
Historical loss loss include: experience is adjusted based on current observable data to reflect the effects a significant financial difficulty of the issuer or obligor: of current conditions that did not affect the period on which the historical loss experience is based and to remove the effects of conditions in the b a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or historical period that do not currently exist.
principal payments: The methodology and assumptions used for estimating future cash c the lender, for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrowers flows are reviewed regularly to reduce any differences between loss financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the lender estimates and actual loss experience.
would not otherwise consider: Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the effective rate of interest which was used to discount the future cash flows for the d it becomes probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
financial reorganisation: When a loan is uncollectable, it is written off against the related e the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because allowance for loan impairment.
Such loans are written off after all the of financial difficulties: or necessary procedures have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off f observable data indicating that there is a measurable decrease in the are credited to the income statement.
estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since the If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot yet be and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment loss is i adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the reversed by adjusting the allowance account.
The amount of the reversal is portfolio: recognised in the income statement.
Equity securities or properties acquired in exchange for loans in order ii national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults to achieve an orderly realisation are accounted for as a disposal of the loan on the assets in the portfolio.
and an acquisition of equity securities or investment properties.
Where For loans and receivables the Group first assesses whether objective control is obtained over an entity as a result of the transaction, the entity is consolidated.
Any further impairment of the assets or business acquired evidence of impairment exists individually for loans and receivables that are individually significant, and individually or collectively for loans and is treated as an impairment of the relevant asset or business and not as an impairment of the original instrument.
198 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies continued In the case of available for sale equity securities, a significant or 11.
Collateral and netting prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is also The Group enters into master agreements with counterparties whenever considered in determining whether impairment exists.
Where such evidence possible and, when appropriate, obtains collateral.
Master agreements exists, the cumulative net loss that has been previously recognised directly provide that, if an event of default occurs, all outstanding transactions with in equity is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
the counterparty will fall due and all amounts outstanding will be settled on In the case of debt instruments classified as available for sale, impairment a net basis.
is assessed based on the same criteria as all other financial assets.
Reversals Collateral of impairment of debt instruments are recognised in the income statement.
The Group obtains collateral in respect of customer liabilities where this is Reversals of impairment of equity shares are not recognised in the income considered appropriate.
The collateral normally takes the form of a lien over statement, increases in the fair value of equity shares after impairment are the customers assets and gives the Group a claim on these assets for both recognised directly in equity.
existing and future customer liabilities.
Sale and repurchase agreements including stock borrowing and The Group also receives collateral in the form of cash or securities in lending respect of other credit instruments, such as stock borrowing contracts, and Securities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them derivative contracts in order to reduce credit risk.
Collateral received in the a repo.
Such securities are retained on the balance sheet when form of securities is not recorded on the balance sheet.
Collateral received substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the Group, in the form of cash is recorded on the balance sheet with a corresponding and the counterparty liability is included separately on the balance sheet liability.
These items are assigned to deposits received from bank or other when cash consideration is received.
Any interest payable or receivable arising is recorded as Similarly, where the Group borrows or purchases securities subject to interest expense or interest income respectively except for funding costs relating to trading activities which are recorded in net trading income.
a commitment to resell them a reverse repo but does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership, the transactions are treated as collateralised Netting loans when cash consideration is paid, and the securities are not included Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported on the in the balance sheet.
balance sheet if, and only if, there is a legally enforceable right to set off the The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to life of the agreements using the effective interest method.
Securities lent realise an asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In many cases, even to counterparties are also retained in the financial statements.
Securities though master netting agreements are in place, the lack of an intention to borrowed are not recognised in the financial statements, unless these settle on a net basis results in the related assets and liabilities being are sold to third parties, at which point the obligation to repurchase the presented gross on the balance sheet.
securities is recorded as a trading liability at fair value and any subsequent gain or loss included in net trading income.
Hedge accounting Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate, commodity, and 10.
Securitisation transactions equity exposures and exposures to certain indices such as house price The Group enters into securitisation transactions in respect of its own indices and retail price indices related to non-trading positions.
financial assets and to facilitate client transactions as described in Note 29 Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes, and when to the accounts.
transactions meet the required criteria, the Group applies fair value hedge All financial assets continue to be held on the Group balance sheet, and accounting, cash flow hedge accounting, or hedging of a net investment in a liability recognised for the proceeds of the funding transaction, unless: a foreign operation as appropriate to the risks being hedged.
a substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the financial When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge, the Group instruments have been transferred, in which case, the assets are formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and derecognised in full: or hedged item as well as its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking the various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents b if a significant portion, but not all, of the risks and rewards have been its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of transferred, the asset is derecognised entirely if the transferee has the whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly ability to sell the financial asset, otherwise the asset continues to be effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
recognised only to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement.
The Group discontinues hedge accounting when: Where a or b above applies to a fully proportionate share of all or a it is determined that a derivative is not, or has ceased to be, highly specifically identified cash flows, the relevant accounting treatment is effective as a hedge: applied to that proportion of the asset.
b the derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised: c the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid: or d a forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 199 In certain circumstances, the Group may decide to cease hedge accounting 13.
Property, plant and equipment even though the hedge relationship continues to be highly effective by no Property and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation longer designating the financial instrument as a hedging instrument.
To the and provisions for impairment, if required.
Additions and subsequent extent that the changes in the fair value of the hedging derivative differ from expenditures are capitalised only to the extent that they enhance the future changes in the fair value of the hedged risk in the hedged item: or the economic benefits expected to be derived from the assets.
cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging derivative differs from the Depreciation is provided on the depreciable amount of items of property cumulative change in the fair value of expected future cash flows of the and equipment on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic hedged item, the hedge is deemed to include ineffectiveness.
The depreciable amount is the gross carrying amount, less the of ineffectiveness, provided it is not so great as to disqualify the entire hedge estimated residual value at the end of its useful economic life.
for hedge accounting, is recorded in the income statement.
The Group uses the following annual rates in calculating depreciation: Fair value hedge accounting Freehold buildings and long-leasehold property Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as fair more than 50 years to run 2-3.3% value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with changes Leasehold property Over the remaining in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the less than 50 years to run life of the lease hedged risk.
Costs of adaptation of freehold and If the hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge a leasehold property 7-10% accounting, it is discontinued.
For fair value hedges of interest rate risk, the Equipment installed in freehold and fair value adjustment to the hedged item is amortised to the income a leasehold property 7-10% statement over the period to maturity of the previously designated hedge Computers and similar equipment 20-33% relationship using the effective interest method.
Fixtures and fittings and other equipment 10-20% If the hedged item is sold or repaid, the unamortised fair value adjustment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Depreciation rates, methods and the residual values underlying the calculation of depreciation of items of property, plant and equipment are Cash flow hedges For qualifying cash flow hedges, the fair value gain or loss associated with kept under review to take account of any change in circumstances.
When deciding on depreciation rates and methods, the principal factors the effective portion of the cash flow hedge is recognised initially in shareholders equity, and recycled to the income statement in the periods the Group takes into account are the expected rate of technological developments and expected market requirements for, and the expected when the hedged item will affect profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in the income pattern of usage of, the assets.
When reviewing residual values, the Group estimates the amount that it would currently obtain for the disposal of the statement immediately.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no asset after deducting the estimated cost of disposal if the asset were already of the age and condition expected at the end of its useful economic life.
longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the No depreciation is provided on freehold land, although, in common with all long-lived assets, it is subject to impairment testing, if deemed hedged item is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or appropriate.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised in the income statement.
Hedges of net investments Investment property is property held to earn rentals or for capital Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, including monetary items appreciation or for both rather than for sale or use in the business.
The tha t are accounted for as part of the net investment, are accounted for Group initially recognises investment properties at cost, and subsequently similarly to cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on the at their fair value at each balance sheet date reflecting market conditions hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective at the reporting date.
The fair value of investment property is determined portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The cumulative by reference to current market prices for similar properties, adjusted as gain or loss previously recognised in equity is recognised in the income necessary for condition and location, or by reference to recent transactions statement on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operation.
updated to reflect current economic conditions.
Discounted cash flow Hedges of net investments may include non-derivative liabilities as well techniques may be employed to calculate fair value where there have been as derivative financial instruments although for a non-derivative liability only no recent transactions, using current external market inputs such as market the foreign exchange risk is designated as a hedge.
Valuations are carried out by management with the support of appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Derivative contracts entered into as economic hedges that do not qualify Movements in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are included in the income statement.
No depreciation is provided in respect of for hedge accounting are held at fair value through profit or loss.
Note a Where leasehold property has a remaining useful life of less than 15 years, costs of adaptation and installed equipment are depreciated over the remaining life of the lease.
200 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies continued 14.
Intangible assets calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows obtainable as a Goodwill result of the assets continued use, including those resulting from its Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and joint ultimate disposal, at a market-based discount rate on a pre-tax basis.
ventures, and represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase The carrying values of fixed assets and goodwill are written down by consideration and direct costs of making the acquisition, over the fair value the amount of any impairment and this loss is recognised in the income of the Groups share of the assets acquired, and the liabilities and contingent statement in the period in which it occurs.
A previously recognised liabilities assumed on the date of the acquisition.
impairment loss relating to a fixed asset may be reversed in part or in full For the purpose of calculating goodwill, fair values of acquired assets, when a change in circumstances leads to a change in the estimates used liabilities and contingent liabilities are determined by reference to market to determine the fixed assets recoverable amount.
The carrying amount values or other valuation methodologies including discounted cash flow of the fixed asset will only be increased up to the amount that it would have techniques, using market rates or by using risk-free rates and risk-adjusted been had the original impairment not been recognised.
Impairment losses expected future cash flows.
Goodwill is capitalised and reviewed annually for on goodwill are not reversed.
For the purpose of conducting impairment impairment, or more frequently when there are indications that impairment reviews, cash-generating units are the lowest level at which management may have occurred.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the monitors the return on investment on assets.
Goodwill on acquisitions of associates and 16.
Financial guarantees joint ventures is included in the amount of the investment.
Gains and losses Financial guarantee contracts are contracts that require the issuer to make on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of the goodwill specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a relating to the entity sold.
specified debtor fails to make payments when due in accordance with the Computer software terms of a debt instrument.
Computer software is stated at cost, less amortisation and provisions for Financial guarantees are initially recognised in the financial statements impairment, if required.
at fair value on the date that the guarantee was given.
Other than where The identifiable and directly associated external and internal costs of the fair value option is applied, subsequent to initial recognition, the Groups acquiring and developing software are capitalised where the software is liabilities under such guarantees are measured at the higher of the initial controlled by the Group, and where it is probable that future economic measurement, less amortisation calculated to recognise in the income benefits that exceed its cost will flow from its use over more than one year.
statement any fee income earned over the period, and any financial obligation arising as a result of the guarantees at the balance sheet date, in accordance Costs associated with maintaining software are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Any increase in the liability relating to guarantees is taken to the income Capitalised computer software is amortised over three to five years.
statement in Provisions for undrawn contractually committed facilities and Other intangible assets guarantees provided.
Any liability remaining is recognised in the income Other intangible assets consist of brands, customer lists, licences and statement when the guarantee is discharged, cancelled or expires.
other contracts, core deposit intangibles, mortgage servicing rights and customer relationships.
Other intangible assets are initially recognised 17.
Issued debt and equity securities when they are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights, Issued financial instruments or their components are classified as liabilities the cost can be measured reliably and, in the case of intangible assets where the contractual arrangement results in the Group having a present not acquired in a business combination, where it is probable that future obligation to either deliver cash or another financial asset to the holder, to economic benefits attributable to the assets will flow from their use.
The exchange financial instruments on terms that are potentially unfavourable value of intangible assets which are acquired in a business combination is or to satisfy the obligation otherwise than by the exchange of a fixed amount generally determined using income approach methodologies such as the of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of equity shares.
Issued discounted cash flow method and the relief from royalty method that financial instruments, or their components, are classified as equity where estimate net cash flows attributable to an asset over its economic life and they meet the definition of equity and confer on the holder a residual interest discount to present value using an appropriate rate of return based on the in the assets of the Group.
The components of issued financial instruments cost of equity adjusted for risk.
that contain both liability and equity elements are accounted for separately Other intangible assets are stated at cost less amortisation and with the equity component being assigned the residual amount after provisions for impairment, if any, and are amortised over their useful lives in deducting from the instrument as a whole the amount separately a manner that reflects the pattern to which they contribute to future cash determined as the fair value of the liability component.
Financial liabilities, other than trading liabilities and financial liabilities designated at fair value, are carried at amortised cost using the effective 15.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets interest method as set out in policy 6.
Derivatives embedded in financial At each balance sheet date, or more frequently where events or changes in liabilities that are not designated at fair value are accounted for as set out cir cumstances dictate, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, in policy 7.
Equity instruments, including share capital, are initially recognised are assessed for indications of impairment.
If indications are present, these at net proceeds, after deducting transaction costs and any related income assets are subject to an impairment review.
Goodwill is subject to an tax.
Dividend and other payments to equity holders are deducted from impairment review as at the balance sheet date each year.
The impairment equity, net of any related tax.
review comprises a comparison of the carrying amount of the asset with its recoverable amount: the higher of the assets or the cash-generating units 18.
Share capital fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Fair value less costs to sell is Share issue costs calculated by reference to the amount at which the asset could be disposed Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options of in a binding sale agreement in an arms length transaction evidenced by including those issued on the acquisition of a business are shown in equity an active market or recent transactions for similar assets.
Value in use is as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 201 Dividends on ordinary shares Deferred income liability Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which Fees that are designed to recover commissions and other costs related to they are paid or, if earlier, approved by the Barclays PLC the Company either securing new insurance and investment contracts or renewing shareholders.
existing investment contracts are included as a liability and amortised over the estimated life of the contract.
Treasury shares Where the Company or any member of the Group purchases the Companys Value of business acquired share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from shareholders equity On acquisition of a portfolio of contracts, such as through the acquisition as treasury shares until they are cancelled.
Where such shares are of a subsidiary, the Group recognises an intangible asset representing subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in the value of business acquired VOBA, representing the future profits shareholders equity.
embedded in acquired insurance contracts and investment contracts with a discretionary participation feature.
The asset is amortised over the 19.
Insurance contracts and investment contracts remaining terms of the acquired contracts.
The Group offers wealth management, term assurance, annuity, property and payment protection insurance products to customers that take the form Liability adequacy test of longand short-term insurance contracts.
Liability adequacy tests are performed at each balance sheet date to ensure The Group classifies its wealth management and other products as the adequacy of contract liabilities net of DAC and VOBA assets.
Current best insurance contracts where these transfer significant insurance risk, generally estimates of future contractual cash flows, claims handling and where the benefits payable on the occurrence of an insured event are at administration costs, and investment returns from the assets backing least 5% more than the benefits that would be payable if the insured event the liabilities are taken into account in the tests.
Where a deficiency is does not occur.
highlighted by the test, DAC and VOBA assets are written off first, Contracts that do not contain significant insurance risk or discretionary and insurance liabilities increased when these are written off in full.
participation features are classified as investment contracts.
Financial assets Any deficiency is immediately recognised in the income statement.
and liabilities relating to investment contracts, and assets backing insurance Reinsurance contracts are classified and measured as appropriate under IAS 39, Financial Shortand long-term insurance business is ceded to reinsurers under Instruments: Recognition and Measurement as set out in policy 7. contracts to transfer part or all of one or more of the following risks: Long-term insurance contracts mortality, investment and expenses.
All such contracts are dealt with as These contracts insure events associated with human life for example, insurance contracts.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its dea th or survival over a long duration.
Premiums are recognised as revenue reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets.
The Group when they become payable by the contract holder.
Claims and surrenders assesses reinsurance assets at each balance sheet date.
If there is objective are accounted for when notified.
Maturities on the policy maturity date and evidence of impairment, the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset is regular withdrawals are accounted for when due.
reduced accordingly, resulting in a charge to the income statement.
A liability for contractual benefits that are expected to be incurred in 20.
Leases the future is recorded when the premiums are recognised, based on the Lessor expected discounted value of the benefit payments and directly related Assets leased to customers under agreements, which transfer substantially administration costs, less the expected discounted value of the future all the risks and rewards of ownership, with or without ultimate legal title, are premiums that would be required to meet the benefits and other expenses.
When assets are held subject to a finance lease, The calculation of the liability contains assumptions regarding mortality, the present value of the lease payments, discounted at the rate of interest maintenance expenses and investment income.
implicit in the lease, is recognised as a receivable.
The difference between Liabilities under unit-linked life insurance contracts such as the total payments receivable under the lease and the present value of the endowment policies in addition reflect the value of assets held within receivable is recognised as unearned finance income, which is allocated to unitised investment pools.
accounting periods under the pre-tax net investment method to reflect a Short-term insurance contracts constant periodic rate of return.
Under its payment protection insurance products the Group is committed to Assets leased to customers under agreements which do not transfer paying benefits to the policyholder rather than forgiving interest or principal substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as on the occurrence of an insured event, such as unemployment, sickness, or operating leases.
The leased assets are included within property, plant injury.
Property insurance contracts mainly compensate the policyholders and equipment on the Groups balance sheet and depreciation is provided for damage to their property or for the value of property lost.
on the depreciable amount of these assets on a systematic basis over their Premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally over the period estimated useful lives.
Lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis of the coverage.
Claims and claims handling costs are charged to income over the period of the lease unless another systematic basis is more as incurred, based on the estimated liability for compensation owed to appropriate.
policyholders arising from events that have occurred up to the balance Lessee sheet date even if they have not yet been reported to the Group, based The leases entered into by the Group are primarily operating leases.
on assessments of individual cases reported to the Group and statistical Oper ating lease rentals payable are recognised as an expense in the income analyses for the claims incurred but not reported.
statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless another Deferred acquisition costs DAC systematic basis is more appropriate.
Commissions and other costs that are related to securing new insurance and in vestment contracts are capitalised and amortised over the estimated lives of the relevant contracts.
202 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting policies continued 21.
Employee benefits conditions are satisfied irrespective of whether the non-vesting conditions The Group provides employees worldwide with post-retirement benefits are satisfied.
If meeting a non-vesting condition is a matter of choice, failure mainly in the form of pensions.
The Group operates a number of pension to meet the non-vesting condition is treated as a cancellation, resulting in schemes which may be funded or unfunded and of a defined contribution an acceleration of recognition of the cost of the employee services.
In addition, the Group contributes, according to 23.
Provisions local law in the various countries in which it operates, to Governmental and Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of other plans which have the characteristics of defined contribution plans.
past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit For defined benefit schemes, actuarial valuation of each of the schemes will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated.
obligations using the projected unit credit method and the fair valuation of When a leasehold property ceases to be used in the business or a each of the schemes assets are performed annually, using the assumptions demonstrable commitment has been made to cease to use a property, set out in Note 30.
The difference between the fair value of the plan assets provision is made where the unavoidable costs of the future obligations and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet relating to the lease are expected to exceed anticipated rental income and date, adjusted for any historic unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and other benefits.
The net costs are discounted using market rates of interest past service cost, is recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
An asset to reflect the long-term nature of the cash flows.
arising, for example, as a result of past over funding or the performance Provision is made for the anticipated cost of restructuring, including of the plan investments, is recognised to the extent that it does not exceed redundancy costs when an obligation exists.
An obligation exists when the the present value of future contribution holidays or refunds of contributions.
Group has a detailed formal plan for restructuring a business and has raised Gains and losses on curtailments are recognised when the curtailment valid expectations in those affected by the restructuring by starting to occurs which is when there is a demonstrable commitment to make a implement the plan or announcing its main features.
The provision raised significant reduction in the number of employees covered by the plan or is normally utilised within nine months.
amendments have been made to the terms of the plan so that a significant Provision is made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities element of future service will no longer qualify for benefits or will qualify only if it is probable that the facility will be drawn and result in the recognition for reduced benefits.
The gain or loss comprises any resulting change in the of an asset at an amount less than the amount advanced.
present value of the defined benefit obligation, any resulting change in the Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will be fair value of the plan assets and any related actuarial gain or loss that had not confirmed only by uncertain future events or present obligations where the previously been recognised since they fell within the corridor.
transfer of economic benefit is uncertain or cannot be reliably measured.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses in excess of the greater of 10% of Contingent liabilities are not recognised but are disclosed unless they are the assets or 10% of the obligations of the plan the corridor are recognised remote.
in the income statement over the remaining average service lives of the employees of the related plan, on a straight-line basis.
Taxes, including deferred taxes For defined contribution schemes, the Group recognises contributions Income tax payable on taxable profits Current Tax, is recognised as an due in respect of the accounting period in the income statement.
Any expense in the period in which the profits arise.
Income tax recoverable on contributions unpaid at the balance sheet date are included as a liability.
tax allowable losses is recognised as an asset only to the extent that it is The Group also provides health care benefits to certain retired regarded as recoverable by offset against current or future taxable profits.
employees, which are accrued as a liability in the financial statements over Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on the period of employment, using a methodology similar to that for defined temporary differences arising from the differences between the tax bases benefit pensions plans.
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated Short-term employee benefits, such as salaries, paid absences, and financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and other benefits including any related payroll taxes are accounted for on an legislation enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date which accruals basis over the period in which the employees provide the related are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred services.
Bonuses are recognised to the extent that the Group has a present tax liability is settled.
Current Tax assets and liabilities are only offset when obligation to its employees that can be measured reliably.
they arise in the same tax reporting group and where there is both the legal All expenses related to employee benefits are recognised in the income right and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and statement in staff costs, which is included within operating expenses.
Segment reporting The Group engages in equity settled share-based payment transactions in Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal respect of services received from certain of its employees.
The fair value of reporting provided to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee, the services received is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of or share options granted on the date of the grant.
The cost of the employee the operating segments, has been identified as the chief operating decision services received in respect of the shares or share options granted is maker.
recognised in the income statement over the period that the services are All transactions between business segments are conducted on an arms received, which is the vesting period.
The fair value of the options granted length basis, with intra-segment revenue and costs being eliminated in is determined using option pricing models, which take into account the Head Office.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment exercise price of the option, the current share price, the risk-free interest rate, are included in determining business segment performance.
the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the option and other 26.
Cash and cash equivalents relevant factors.
Except for those which include terms related to market For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash comprises cash on hand conditions, vesting conditions, which are service conditions or performance and demand deposits, and cash equivalents comprise highly liquid conditions, included in the terms of the grant are not taken into account in investments that are convertible into cash with an insignificant risk of estimating fair value.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account changes in value with original maturities of less than three months.
by adjusting the number of shares or share options included in the Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements are not considered to be measurement of the cost of employee services so that ultimately, the part of cash equivalents.
amount recognised in the income statement reflects the number of vested shares or options.
Where vesting conditions are related to market conditions, 27.
Trust activities the charges for the services received are recognised regardless of whether The Group commonly acts as trustees and in other fiduciary capacities that or not the market-related vesting condition is met, provided that the nonresult in the holding or placing of assets on behalf of individuals, trusts, market vesting conditions are met.
Similarly, non-vesting conditions, which retirement benefit plans and other institutions.
These assets and income are other conditions not being service conditions or performance conditions, arising thereon are excluded from these financial statements, as they are not are taken into account in estimating the grant date fair value and shareassets of the Group.
based payment charges and are recognised when all non-market vesting www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 203 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Accounting developments Changes to Accounting Policy Group cash-settled share-based payment transactions: The Group has continued to apply the accounting policies used for the 2008 Amendments to IFRS 2 Annual Report and has adopted the following: Eligible Hedged Items an amendment to IAS 39 The 2008 amendments to IFRS 2 Shared-Based Payment-Vesting IFRS classification of rights issues: Amendment to IAS 32 Conditions and Cancellations which has led to a change in accounting for IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures share-based payments to employees.
As a result, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in estimating the grant date fair value and the Prepayments and minimum funding requirements timing of recognition of charges.
No prior year adjustments have been Amendments to IFRIC 14 made as the impact on previous years is immaterial IFRIC 17 Distribution of non-cash assets to owners IFRS 7 Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, an amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which has IFRIC 18 Transfers of assets from customers resulted in additional disclosures being made regarding liquidity risk and IFRIC 19 Extinguishing financial liabilities with equity instruments fair value of financial instruments Improvements to IFRS 2008 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements revised, which has resulted in the reformatting of the statement of recognised income and expense Improvements to IFRS 2009 into a statement of comprehensive income and the addition of a IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement was statement of changes in equity.
This does not change the recognition, published on 12th November 2009.
It is the first phase of a project to replace measurement or disclosure of specific transactions and events required by IAS 39 and will ultimately result in fundamental changes in the way that the other standards Group accounts for financial instruments.
Adoption of the standard is not mandatory until accounting periods beginning on or after 1st January 2013 Future accounting developments but early adoption is permitted.
However, it is not available for adoption in Consideration will be given during 2010 to the implications, if any, of the the EU until it has been endorsed.
f ollowing revised standards as follows: The main differences from IAS 39 are as follows: IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate All financial assets, except for certain equity investments, would be Financial Statements are revised standards issued in January 2008.
The classified into two categories: revised IFRS 3 applies prospectively to business combinations first accounted for in accounting periods beginning on or after 1st July 2009 amortised cost, where they generate solely payments of interest and and the amendments to IAS 27 apply retrospectively to periods beginning principal and the business model is to collect contractual cash flows that on or after 1st July 2009.
The main changes in existing practice resulting represent principal and interest: or from the revision to IFRS 3 affect acquisitions that are achieved in stages fair value through profit or loss.
and acquisitions where less than 100% of the equity is acquired.
In addition, acquisition-related costs such as fees paid to advisers must Certain non-trading equity investments would be classified at fair value be accounted for separately from the business combination, which means through profit or loss or fair value though Other comprehensive income that they will be recognised as expenses unless they are directly connected with dividends recognised in net income.
with the issue of debt or equity securities.
The revisions to IAS 27 specify Embedded derivatives are no longer considered for bifurcation but are that changes in a Parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not included in the assessment of the cash flows for the classification of the result in the loss of control must be accounted for as equity transactions.
Until future acquisitions take place that are accounted for in accordance with the revised IFRS 3, the main impact on Barclays will be that, from Financial assets which meet the requirements for classification at 2010, gains and losses on transactions with non-controlling interests that amortised cost are optionally permitted to be measured at fair value if that do not result in loss of control will no longer be recognised in the income eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
statement but directly in equity.
In 2009, gains of 3m were recognised in Reclassifications are required if, and only if, there is a change in the income relating to such transactions.
The following standards and amendments to existing standards have been Aspects of financial instrument accounting which will be addressed in published and are mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning future phases of the project include the accounting for financial liabilities, on or after 1st January 2010 or later periods, but have not been adopted.
impairment of amortised cost financial assets and hedge accounting.
They are not expected to result in significant changes to the Groups The Group is assessing the impacts of the first phase in the project, as accounting policies.
well as following developments in the future phases.
Embedded derivatives: Amendments to IFRIC 9 and IAS 39 204 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income 2 21,236 28,010 25,296 Interest expense 2 9,318 16,541 15,698 Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598 Fee and commission income 3 9,946 7,573 6,741 Fee and commission expense 3 1,528 1,082 970 Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,771 Net trading income 4 7,001 1,339 3,754 Net investment income 4 56 680 1,216 Principal transactions 7,057 2,019 4,970 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,172 1,090 1,011 Other income 6 1,389 367 186 Total income 29,954 21,436 21,536 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 831 237 492 Total income net of insurance claims 29,123 21,199 21,044 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 8,071 5,419 2,795 Net income 21,052 15,780 18,249 Staff costs 8 9,948 7,204 7,611 Administration and general expenses 9 5,561 5,305 3,854 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 759 606 453 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 447 276 178 Operating expenses 16,715 13,391 12,096 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 34 14 42 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 38 188 327 28 Gains on acquisitions 40 26 2,406 Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223 Tax 10 1,074 453 1,699 Profit after tax from continuing operations 3,511 4,683 4,524 Discontinued operations Profit after tax for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 39 6,777 604 571 Net profit for the year 10,288 5,287 5,095 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from: Continuing operations 2,628 3,795 3,886 Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531 Total 9,393 4,382 4,417 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 33 895 905 678 10,288 5,287 5,095 p pp Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 11 86.2 59.3 68.9 Basic earnings per share continuing operations 24.1 51.4 60.6 Basic earnings per share discontinued operations 62.1 7.9 8.3 Diluted earnings per share 11 81.6 57.5 66.9 Diluted earnings per share continuing operations 22.7 49.8 58.8 Diluted earnings per share discontinued operations 58.9 7.7 8.1 Interim dividend per ordinary share 1.0 11.5 11.50 Final dividend per ordinary share 1 1.5 22.50 m m m Interim dividend paid 113 906 768 Final dividend 1 176 1,485 The Board of Directors approved the accounts set out on pages 193 to 308 on 9th March 2010.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 205 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Net profit for the year 10,288 5,287 5,095 Other comprehensive income: Continuing operations Currency translation differences 861 2,274 43 Available for sale financial assets 1,236 1,561 1 Cash flow hedges 165 376 359 Other 5 22 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 26 851 40 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, from continuing operations 514 1,935 465 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, from discontinued operations 58 114 26 Total comprehensive income for the year 10,744 7,336 5,586 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 9,556 6,213 4,854 Non-controlling interests 1,188 1,123 732 10,744 7,336 5,586 Income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income is disclosed in Note 10.
206 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2009 2008 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,695 Trading portfolio assets 12 151,344 185,637 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 41,311 54,542 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,257 66,657 Derivative financial instruments 14 416,815 984,802 Loans and advances to banks 15 41,135 47,707 Loans and advances to customers 15 420,224 461,815 Available for sale financial investments 16 56,483 64,976 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 143,431 130,354 Other assets 18 6,358 6,302 Current tax assets 349 389 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 422 341 Goodwill 21 6,232 7,625 Intangible assets 22 2,563 2,777 Property, plant and equipment 23 5,626 4,674 Deferred tax assets 19 2,303 2,668 Total assets 1,378,929 2,052,980 Liabilities Deposits from banks 76,446 114,910 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,466 1,635 Customer accounts 322,429 335,505 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 51,252 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 86,202 76,892 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,679 69,183 Derivative financial instruments 14 403,416 968,072 Debt securities in issue 135,902 149,567 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 198,781 182,285 Other liabilities 25 12,101 12,640 Current tax liabilities 992 1,216 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,140 2,152 Subordinated liabilities 27 25,816 29,842 Deferred tax liabilities 19 470 304 Provisions 28 590 535 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 769 1,357 Total liabilities 1,320,451 2,005,569 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 2,853 2,093 Share premium account 31 7,951 4,045 Other equity 31 3,652 Other reserves 32 2,768 2,793 Retained earnings 32 33,845 24,208 Less: treasury shares 32 140 173 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 47,277 36,618 Non-controlling interests 33 11,201 10,793 Total shareholders equity 58,478 47,411 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,378,929 2,052,980 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the Consolidated accounts.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Chris Lucas Group Finance Director www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 207 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share capital Nonand share Other Retained controlling Total a b c d premium Reserves earnings Total interests equity Notes m m m m m m Balance at 1st January 2009 6,138 6,272 24,208 36,618 10,793 47,411 Net profit for the year 9,393 9,393 895 10,288 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation differences 1,138 1,138 277 861 Available for sale financial assets 1,250 1,250 14 1,236 Cash flow hedges 194 194 29 165 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 256 171 85 59 26 Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations 75 17 58 58 Total comprehensive income 25 9,581 9,556 1,188 10,744 Issue of new ordinary shares 749 749 749 Issue of shares under employee share schemes 35 298 333 333 Net purchase of treasury shares 47 47 47 Transfers 80 80 Dividends 1 113 113 767 880 Net decrease in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, disposals and capital issuances 82 82 Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 3,882 3,652 230 Other 181 181 69 250 Balance at 31st December 2009 10,804 2,628 33,845 47,277 11,201 58,478 Balance at 1st January 2008 1,707 614 20,970 23,291 9,185 32,476 Net profit for the year 4,382 4,382 905 5,287 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation differences 2,174 2,174 100 2,274 Available for sale financial assets 1,559 1,559 2 1,561 Cash flow hedges 271 271 105 376 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 882 46 836 15 851 Other 5 5 5 Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations 124 10 114 114 Total comprehensive income 1,892 4,321 6,213 1,123 7,336 Issue of new ordinary shares 4,422 4,422 4,422 Issue of shares under employee share schemes 19 463 482 482 Issue of shares and warrants 1,410 1,410 1,410 Repurchase of shares 10 10 173 173 173 Net purchase of treasury shares 350 350 350 Transfers 437 437 Dividends 2,344 2,344 703 3,047 Net increase in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, disposals and capital issuances 1,338 1,338 Issue of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 3,652 3,652 3,652 Other 17 2 15 150 135 Balance at 31st December 2008 6,138 6,272 24,208 36,618 10,793 47,411 Notes a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note 31. b Details of other reserves are shown in Note 32.
Other reserves above includes treasury shares.
c Details of retained earnings and treasury shares are shown in Note 32. d Details of non-controlling interests are shown in Note 33.
208 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Consolidated accounts Barclays PLC Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Continuing operations Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 8,071 5,419 2,795 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 1,196 885 651 Other provisions, including pensions 428 804 753 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 34 14 42 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 383 371 862 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 3 26 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 191 327 2 Net gains on acquisitions 26 2,406 a Other non-cash movements 4,573 960 1,181 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net decrease increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 25,482 58,431 77,987 Net decrease increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 49,203 77,743 90,589 Net decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 3,321 17,529 2,144 Net decrease increase in trading assets 34,334 26,919 18,227 Net decrease in trading liabilities 8,222 5,928 6,472 Net increase decrease in financial investments 20,459 5,229 4,379 Net increase decrease in other assets 465 3,016 1,116 Net decrease in other liabilities 907 477 1,071 Tax paid 1,177 1,404 1,254 Net cash from operating activities 41,844 33,192 11,520 Purchase of available for sale investments 78,420 57,756 26,899 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale investments 88,559 51,429 38,423 Net addition of intangible assets 226 666 227 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,150 1,643 1,182 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 372 799 617 Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 28 961 270 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 339 238 383 Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash disposed 2,469 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 157 668 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 19 57 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 81 96 220 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 69 137 145 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 15 5 153 Net cash from investing activities 11,888 8,662 10,312 Dividends paid 633 2,697 2,151 Proceeds of borrowings and issuance of debt securities 3,549 5,763 4,646 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 4,383 1,207 683 Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 773 9,505 2,494 Repurchase of shares and other equity instruments 173 1,802 Net disposal purchase of treasury shares 33 87 48 Net issue of shares to non-controlling interests 1,356 1,331 Net cash from financing activities 661 12,634 3,787 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 2,864 6,018 537 Net cash from discontinued operations 376 286 83 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 49,831 31,432 2,125 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64,509 33,077 30,952 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 114, 340 64,509 33,077 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 5,801 Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 40,120 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 10,674 15,428 19,377 30,461 32,279 20,743 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 56,483 64,976 43,072 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 54,239 62,876 41,688 2,244 2,100 1,384 Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,691 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 151,192 185,526 188,556 152 111 5,135 Other 14 114,340 64,509 33,077 Interest received in 2009 was 32,437m 2008: 41,017m, 2007: 49,441m and interest paid in 2009 was 20,889m 2008: 38,975m, 2007: 37,821m.
The Group is required to maintain balances with central banks and other regulatory authorities and these amounted to 2,470m at 31st December 2009 2008: 1,050m.
Note a Other non-cash movements principally comprise movements in exchange rates and the fair value of available for sale investments less subordinated debt hedging.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 209 Accounts of Barclays PLC Parent company accounts Income statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Dividends received from subsidiary 103 1,173 3,287 Interest income 53 74 Trading gain loss 18 13 Other income 15 Management charge from subsidiary 4 4 4 Profit before tax 152 1,194 3,289 Tax 27 1 Profit after tax 125 1,193 3,289 The Company had no staff during the year 2008: nil, 2007: nil.
Profit after tax and total comprehensive income for the year was 125m 2008: 1,193m, 2007: 3,289m.
There were no other components of total comprehensive income other than the net profit for the year.
Balance sheet As at 31st December 2009 2008 Notes m m Assets Non-current assets Investment in subsidiaries 41 20,215 15,340 Current assets Cash and balances at central banks 1 Other assets 26 3,851 Total assets 20,242 19,191 Liabilities Current liabilities Amounts payable within one year 28 1 Shareholders equity Called up share capital 31 2,853 2,093 Share premium account 31 7,951 4,045 Other equity 31 3,652 Capital redemption reserve 32 394 394 Retained earnings 32 9,016 9,006 Total shareholders equity 20,214 19,190 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 20,242 19,191 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman John Varley Group Chief Executive Chris Lucas Group Finance Director 210 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Accounts of Barclays PLC Parent company accounts continued Statement of changes in equity Share capital and share Other Retained Total a b c premium reserves earnings equity Notes m m m m Balance at 1st January 2009 6,138 4,046 9,006 19,190 Total comprehensive income: Net profit for the year and total comprehensive income 125 125 Issue of new ordinary shares 749 749 Issue of shares under employee share schemes 35 35 Issue of warrants Mandatorily Convertible Notes issued 3,882 3,652 230 Repurchase of shares Dividends 1 113 113 Other 228 228 Balance at 31st December 2009 10,804 394 9,016 20,214 Balance at 1st January 2008 1,707 384 8,990 11,081 Total comprehensive income: Net profit for the year and total comprehensive income 1,193 1,193 Issue of new ordinary shares 4,422 634 5,056 Issue of shares under employee share schemes 19 19 Issue of warrants 776 776 Mandatorily Convertible Notes issued 3,652 3,652 Repurchase of shares 10 10 173 173 Dividends 2,414 2,414 Other Balance at 31st December 2008 6,138 4,046 9,006 19,190 In 2009 and 2008 there were no other components of total comprehensive income other than the net profit for the year.
Notes a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note 31. b Details of other reserves are shown in Note 32. c Details of retained earnings are shown in Note 32. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 211 Cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 152 1,194 3,289 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net decrease increase in other assets 2 16 3 Net increase decrease in other liabilities 1 3 Net cash from operating activities 155 1,178 3,283 Capital contribution to subsidiaries 800 4,362 1,434 Purchase of shares in subsidiaries 25 16 316 Liquidation of subsidiary 205 Net cash used in investing activities 825 4,173 1,750 Issue of shares and other equity instruments 784 4,911 2,494 Dividends paid 113 2,414 2,129 Repurchase of ordinary shares 173 1,802 Net cash from financing activities 671 2,324 1,437 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1 671 96 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 671 575 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 1 671 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 1 671 Net cash from operating activities includes: Dividends received 103 1,173 3,287 Interest received 53 74 The Parent Companys principal activity is to hold the investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC.
Dividends received are treated as operating income.
The Company was not exposed at 31st December 2009 or 2008 to significant risks arising from the financial instruments it holds: which comprised cash, balances with central banks and other assets which had no credit or market risk.
Non-cash transactions During 2008 Barclays Bank PLC issued 4,050m of Mandatorily Convertible Notes MCNs, which had mandatorily converted into ordinary shares of Barclays PLC by 30th June 2009.
Barclays PLCs right to receive the MCNs was included in other assets in 2008, with a corresponding increase, net of issue costs, in other equity.
In 2009, Barclays PLC waived its rights over the MCNs, which have been added to its cost of investment in its subsidiary.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the accounts.
212 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 st December 2009 1 Dividends per share The Directors have recommended the final dividend in respect of 2009 of 1.5p per ordinary share of 25p each, amounting to a total of 176m, which will be paid on 19th March 2010.
The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2009 do not reflect these dividends, which will be accounted for in shareholders equity as an appropriation of retained profits in the year ending 31st December 2010.
The financial statements to 31st December 2009 include the 2009 interim dividend of 113m.
2 Net interest income 2009 2008 2007 Interest arising from: m m m Cash and balances with central banks 131 174 145 Available for sale investments 1,937 2,355 2,580 Loans and advances to banks 513 1,267 1,416 Loans and advances to customers 18,456 23,754 19,559 Other interest income 199 460 1,596 Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296 Deposits from banks 634 2,189 2,720 Customer accounts 2,716 6,697 4,110 Debt securities in issue 3,889 5,910 6,651 Subordinated liabilities 1,718 1,349 878 Other interest expense 361 396 1,339 Interest expense 9,318 16,541 15,698 Net interest income 11,918 11,469 9,598 Interest income includes 185m 2008: 135m, 2007: 113m arising from impaired loans.
Other interest income principally includes interest income relating to reverse repurchase agreements.
Similarly, other interest expense principally includes interest expense relating to repurchase agreements and hedging activity.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14.
3 Net fee and commission income 2009 2008 2007 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 88 56 78 Investment management fees 133 120 122 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 9,578 7,208 6,363 Foreign exchange commissions 147 189 178 Fee and commission income 9,946 7,573 6,741 Fee and commission expense 1,528 1,082 970 Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,771 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 213 4 Principal transactions 2009 2008 2007 m m m Net trading income 7,001 1,339 3,754 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 349 212 560 Dividend income 6 196 26 Net loss gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 208 33 293 Other investment losses income 91 239 337 Net investment income 56 680 1,216 Principal transactions 7,057 2,019 4,970 Net trading income includes the profits and losses arising both on the purchase and sale of trading instruments and from the revaluation to fair value, together with the interest income earned from these instruments and the related funding cost.
Net trading income included a 682m gain 2008: 1,272m, 2007: 640m related to foreign exchange dealings.
The net loss on financial assets designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 2,557m 2008: 6,602m loss, 2007: 78m gain of which losses of 2,349m 2008: 6,635m loss, 2007: 215m loss were included in net trading income and losses of 208m 2008: 33m gain, 2007: 293m gain were included within net investment income.
The net loss on financial liabilities designated at fair value included within principal transactions was 3,158m 2008: 3,328m gain, 2007: 231m loss all of which was included within net trading income.
Net trading income includes the net loss from tightening credit spreads relating to Barclays Capital issued structured notes held at fair value of 1,820m 2008: 1,663m gain, 2007: 658m gain.
5 Insurance premiums and insurance claims and benefits 2009 2008 2007 m m m Gross premiums from insurance contracts 1,224 1,138 1,062 Premiums ceded to reinsurers 52 48 51 Net premiums from insurance contracts 1,172 1,090 1,011 2009 2008 2007 m m m Gross claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 858 263 520 Reinsurers share of claims incurred 27 26 28 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 831 237 492 6 Other income 2009 2008 2007 m m m Increase decrease in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 102 1,219 23 Increase decrease in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 102 1,219 23 Property rentals 64 73 53 Gains on debt buy backs and extinguishments 1,255 24 Other 70 270 133 Other income 1,389 367 186 214 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 7 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 2009 2008 2007 m m m Impairment charges on loans and advances New and increased impairment allowances 8,111 5,116 2,871 Releases 631 358 338 Recoveries 150 174 227 Impairment charges on loans and advances 7,330 4,584 2,306 Charge in respect of provision for undrawn contractually committed facilities and guarantees provided 28 329 476 Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions 7,358 4,913 2,782 Impairment charges on reverse repurchase agreements 43 124 Impairment on available for sale assets 670 382 13 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 8,071 5,419 2,795 An analysis of the impairment charges by class of financial instrument is included in Note 47.
8 Staff costs 2009 2008 2007 m m m Salaries and accrued incentive payments 8,081 5,787 6,322 Social security costs 606 444 480 Pension costs defined contribution plans 224 221 119 Pension costs defined benefit plans Note 30 33 89 150 Other post-retirement benefits Note 30 16 19 Other 1,054 662 531 Staff costs 9,948 7,204 7,611 Included in salaries and incentive payments is 290m 2008: 257m, 2007: 551m arising from equity settled share-based payments, of which 56m 2008: 23m, 2007: 60m is a charge related to option-based schemes and of which 12m 2008: 35m, 2007: 74m relates to discontinued operations.
Also included is 8m 2008: 3m, 2007: 8m arising from cash settled share-based payments.
In December 2009, the UK government announced that the Finance Bill 2010 will introduce a bank payroll tax of 50% applicable to discretionary bonuses over 25,000 awarded to UK bank employees between 9th December 2009 and 5th April 2010.
Draft legislation and further guidance on its application has been published.
Based on this, and in accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits, the Group has accrued for the estimated tax payable in respect of employee services provided during the period.
For 2009, 190m has been included within Other Staff Costs in respect of 2009 cash awards.
A further provision of 35m has also been included in Other Staff Costs in respect of certain prior year awards being distributed during the tax window, which may fall within the proposed legislation.
Staff costs above relate to continuing operations only.
Total staff costs for the Group including both continuing and discontinued operations was 10,683m 2008: 7,779m, 2007: 8,405m comprising salaries and accrued incentive payments of 8,595m 2008: 6,273m, 2007: 6,993m, social security costs of 621m 2008: 464m, 2007: 508m, pension costs of 217m 2008: 326m, 2007: 291m, other post-retirement benefits of 19m 2008: 1m, 2007: 10m and other staff costs of 1,231m 2008: 715m, 2007: 603m.
The total average number of persons employed by the Group including both continuing and discontinued operations during the year was 153,800 2008: 151,500.
9 Administration and general expenses 2009 2008 2007 m m m Administrative expenses 4,889 4,791 3,691 Impairment charges releases property and equipment Note 23 34 33 2 intangible assets Note 22 27 3 14 goodwill Note 21 1 112 Operating lease rentals 639 520 414 Gain on property disposals 29 148 267 Administration and general expenses 5,561 5,305 3,854 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 215 9 Administration and general expenses continued Auditors remuneration Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total Notes m m m m m 2009 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation a 23 23 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b 2 2 Other services relating to taxation c 7 7 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d 33 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 35674 52 2008 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation a 19 19 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b 2 2 Other services relating to taxation c 9 9 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d 2 2 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 31693 49 2007 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation a 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation b 6 2 8 Other services relating to taxation c 3 3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Company or any of its associates d 5 5 Other 1 12 Total auditors remuneration 24 3 3 6 36 The figures shown in the above table relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates for continuing operations of business.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Companys subsidiaries were 3m 2008: 3m, 2007: 2m.
a Fees payable for the audit of the Companys associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
The fees relating to the audit of the associated pension schemes were 0.5m 2008: 0.2m, 2007: 0.3m.
b Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These include audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In 2009 and 2008 fees paid for reporting under Section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the audit of the Groups annual accounts and the Companys associates.
c Other services relating to taxation include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
d Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and other work in connection with such transactions.
Excluded from the total auditors remuneration above are fees paid to  LLP and associates relating to BGI discontinued operations of 4m 2008: 3m, 2007: 8m.
216 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 10 Tax The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30% and comprises: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Current tax charge credit Current year 1,249 1,201 2,013 Adjustment for prior years 118 98 10 1,131 1,299 2,023 Deferred tax charge credit Current year 45 577 297 Adjustment for prior years 102 269 27 57 846 324 Total charge 1,074 453 1,699 The effective tax rate for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Profit before tax 4,585 5,136 6,223 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30% 1,284 1,464 1,867 Adjustment for prior years 220 171 17 Effect of overseas tax rates different from UK standard tax rate 27 175 82 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses 112 859 136 Share-based payments 38 201 71 Deferred tax assets not recognised previously not recognised 27 504 159 Change in tax rates 12 1 24 Other non-allowable expenses 172 148 131 Overall tax charge 1,074 453 1,699 Effective tax rate 23% 9% 27% The effective tax rate for 2009, based on profit before tax on continuing operations was 23.4% 2008: 8.8%.
The effective tax rate differs from the UK tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5% because of non-taxable gains and income, different tax rates applied to taxable profits and losses outside the UK, disallowed expenditure and adjustments in respect of prior years.
The low effective tax rate of 8.8% on continuing operations in 2008 mainly resulted from the Lehman Brothers North American business acquisition.
Tax effects relating to each component of other comprehensive income For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 Tax Tax Tax Before tax expense Net of tax Before tax expense Net of tax Before tax expense Net of tax amount benefit amount amount benefit amount amount benefit amount m m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Currency translation differences 861 2 863 2,274 840 3,114 43 102 145 Available for sale 1,236 177 1,059 1,561 207 1,354 1 1 Cash flow hedge 165 65 100 376 194 182 359 119 240 Other 218 218 5 2 7 22 58 80 Other comprehensive income 540 26 514 1,084 851 1,935 425 40 465 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 217 11 Earnings per share 2009 2008 2007 m m m Continuing operations Profit attributable to equity holders of Parent 2,628 3,795 3,886 Dilutive impact of convertible options 17 19 15 Profit attributable to equity holders of Parent including dilutive impact of convertible options 2,611 3,776 3,871 Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531 2009 2008 2007 million million million Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 10,890 7,389 6,410 Number of potential ordinary shares 594 188 177 Diluted weighted average number of shares 11,484 7,577 6,587 p pp Basic earnings per share 86.2 59.3 68.9 Continuing operations 24.1 51.4 60.6 Discontinued operations 62.1 7.9 8.3 Diluted earnings per share 81.6 57.5 66.9 Continuing operations 22.7 49.8 58.8 Discontinued operations 58.9 7.7 8.1 The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent and the number of basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held in employee benefits trusts and shares held for trading.
The basic weighted average number of shares in issue in the year ended 31st December 2009 reflects the full year impact of the 1,803 million shares issued during 2008, the 2,642 million shares that were issued during the first six months of 2009 following conversion in full of the Mandatorily Convertible Notes, and the weighted average impact of the 379 million warrants exercised during 2009.
The increase in the number of potential ordinary shares is primarily driven by the warrants issued in 2008 becoming dilutive in 2009 as the average share price exceeded the warrants exercise price.
When calculating the diluted earnings per share, the profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent is adjusted for the dilutive impact of the potential conversion of outstanding options held in respect of Absa Group Limited that would increase the Groups non-controlling interests on exercise.
In addition, the weighted average number of shares in issue is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares held in respect of Barclays PLC, totalling 594 million 2008: 188 million, 2007: 177 million.
Of the total number of employee share options and share awards at 31st December 2009, 97 million were anti-dilutive 2008: 64 million, 2007: nil.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Group continued to make on-market purchases of treasury shares for the purposes of satisfying its various employee share schemes.
No adjustment has been made to earnings per share in respect of these purchases.
12 Trading portfolio 2009 2008 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 4,544 Debt securities 116,594 148,686 Equity securities 19,602 30,535 Traded loans 2,962 1,070 Commodities 2,260 802 Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 Trading portfolio liabilities Treasury and other eligible bills 381 79 Debt securities 44,327 44,309 Equity securities 6,468 14,919 Commodities 76 167 Trading portfolio liabilities 51,252 59,474 As disclosed in Note 51, 8,027m of collateralised loan obligations were reclassified from the trading portfolio to loans and receivables during the year.
218 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 13 Financial assets designated at fair value Held on own account 2009 2008 m m Loans and advances 22,390 30,187 Debt securities 4,007 8,628 Equity securities 6,256 6,496 Other financial assets 8,658 9,231 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 41,311 54,542 The maximum exposure to credit risk on loans and advances designated at fair value at 31st December 2009 was 22,390m 2008: 30,187m.
The amount by which related credit derivatives and similar instruments mitigate the exposure to credit risk at 31st December 2009 was 1,416m 2008: 2,084m.
The net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value was 2,370m in 2009 2008: 2,550m.
The gains on related credit derivatives was 229m for the year 2008: 519m.
The cumulative net loss attributable to changes in credit risk for loans and advances designated at fair value since initial recognition is 5,321m at 31st December 2009 2008: 2,951m.
The cumulative change in fair value of related credit derivatives at 31st December 2009 is 744m 2008: 515m.
Held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts liabilities arising from investment contracts 2009 2008 m m Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,257 66,657 Cash and bank balances within the portfolio 422 2,526 Assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,679 69,183 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,679 69,183 A portion of the Groups fund management business in 2008, mostly relating to BGI, takes the legal form of investment contracts, under which legal title to the underlying investment is held by the Group, but the inherent risks and rewards in the investments are borne by the investors.
In the normal course of business, the Groups financial interest in such investments is restricted to fees for investment management services.
Due to the nature of these contracts, the carrying value of the assets is always the same as the value of the liabilities and any change in the value of the assets results in an equal but opposite change in the value of the amounts due to the policyholders.
The Group is therefore not exposed to the financial risks market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk inherent in the investments and they are omitted from the disclosures on financial risks in Notes 47 to 49.
On the balance sheet, the assets are included as Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
Balances within the portfolio have been included in the Groups cash balances.
The associated obligation to deliver the value of the investments to customers at their fair value on-balance sheet date is included as Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
The increase decrease in fair value arising from the return on the investments and the corresponding increase decrease in linked liabilities to customers is disclosed in Note 6. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 219 14 Derivative financial instruments The Groups objectives and policies on managing the risks that arise in connection with derivatives, including the policies for hedging, are included in Notes 46 to 49.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The fair values and notional amounts of derivative instruments held for risk management are set out in the following table: Year ended 31st December Derivatives held for trading 2009 2008 Notional Notional Fair value Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges Currency swaps 586 271 Interest rate swaps 79,241 478 494 60,669 1,013 1,011 Equity options 400 154 OTC options bought and sold 673 2 Forward foreign exchange 2,224 237 51 1,871 309 354 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 33,534 20,028 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 115,672 717 545 83,554 1,322 1,790 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges Currency swaps 502 10 2,666 283 105 Interest rate swaps 12,199 357 459 14,010 1,052 357 Equity options 7,710 53 56 259 124 110 Forward foreign exchange 5,386 18 103 Exchange traded interest rate swaps 32,257 18,767 Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 58,054 438 618 35,702 1,459 572 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investments Forward foreign exchange 5,321 22 97 2,019 4 76 Currency swaps 971 137 3,675 21 1,563 Derivatives designated as hedges of net investment 6,292 22 234 5,694 25 1,639 Derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 180,018 1,177 1,397 124,950 2,806 4,001 Interest rate derivatives, designated as cash flow hedges, primarily hedge the exposure to cash flow variability from interest rates of variable rate loans to banks and customers, variable rate debt securities held and highly probable forecast financing transactions and reinvestments.
Interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges primarily hedge the interest rate risk of fixed rate borrowings in issue, fixed rate loans to banks and customers and investments in fixed rate debt securities held.
Currency derivatives are primarily designated as hedges of the foreign currency risk of net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups total derivative asset and liability position as reported on the balance sheet is as follows: Year ended 31st December 2009 2008 Notional Notional Fair value Fair value contract contract amount Assets Liabilities amount Assets Liabilities m m m m m m Total derivative assets liabilities held for trading 39,131,979 415,638 402,019 45,740,782 981,996 964,071 Total derivative assets liabilities held for risk management 180,018 1,177 1,397 124,950 2,806 4,001 Derivative assets liabilities 39,311,997 416,815 403,416 45,865,732 984,802 968,072 Derivative assets and liabilities subject to counterparty netting agreements amounted to 343bn 2008: 862bn.
Additionally, the Group held 31bn 2008: 55bn of collateral against the net derivative assets exposure.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 221 14 Derivative financial instruments continued The Group has hedged the following forecast cash flows, which primarily vary with interest rates.
These cash flows are expected to impact the income statement in the following periods, excluding any hedge adjustments that may be applied: Between Between Between Between Up to one to two to three to four to More than Total one year two years three years four years five years five years m m m m m m m 2009 Forecast receivable cash flows 3,304 467 838 837 700 370 92 Forecast payable cash flows 558 51 96 122 145 116 28 2008 Forecast receivable cash flows 2,569 875 586 596 347 127 38 Forecast payable cash flows 974 275 166 175 145 123 90 The maximum length of time over which the Group hedges exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecast transactions, excluding those forecast transactions related to the payment of variable interest on existing financial instruments, is nine years 2008: seven years.
All gains or losses on hedging derivatives relating to forecast transactions, which are no longer expected to occur, have been recycled to the income statement.
A loss of 1,478m on hedging instruments was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2008: 2,439m gain.
A gain of 1,604m on the hedged items was recognised in relation to fair value hedges in net interest income 2008: 2,423m loss.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to cash flow hedges in net interest income was a gain of 21m 2008: 14m gain.
Ineffectiveness recognised in relation to hedges of net investment was a loss of 5m 2008: 2m gain.
15 Loans and advances to banks and customers 2009 2008 m m Gross loans and advances to banks 41,196 47,758 Less: Allowance for impairment 61 51 Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 Gross loans and advances to customers 430,959 468,338 Less: Allowance for impairment 10,735 6,523 Loans and advances to customers 420,224 461,815 222 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 16 Available for sale financial investments 2009 2008 m m Debt securities 43,888 58,831 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,919 4,003 Equity securities 6,676 2,142 Available for sale financial investments 56,483 64,976 Movement in available for sale financial investments At beginning of year 64,976 43,072 Exchange and other adjustments 4,399 14,275 Acquisitions and transfers 83,915 59,703 Disposals through sale and redemption 88,854 50,501 Gains losses from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,576 1,174 Impairment charge 670 382 Amortisation charge 6 17 Business disposals discontinued operations 55 At end of year 56,483 64,976 17 Securities borrowing, securities lending, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements Amounts included in the balance sheet and reported on a net basis where the Group has the intention and the legal ability to settle net or realise simultaneously were as follows: a Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed Amounts advanced to counterparties under reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral provided under stock borrowing agreements are treated as collateralised loans receivable.
The related securities purchased or borrowed subject to an agreement with the counterparty to repurchase them are not recognised on-balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership remain with the counterparty.
2009 2008 m m Banks 67,872 55,471 Customers 75,559 74,883 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral held on securities borrowed 143,431 130,354 b Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent Securities that are not recorded on the balance sheet for example, securities that have been obtained as a result of reverse repurchase and stock borrowing transactions may also be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase such securities remain off-balance sheet.
In both instances, amounts received from counterparty are treated as liabilities, which at 31st December were as follows: 2009 2008 m m Banks 93,692 87,403 Customers 105,089 94,882 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 198,781 182,285 18 Other assets 2009 2008 m m Sundry debtors 4,909 4,814 Prepayments 1,010 882 Accrued income 347 483 Reinsurance assets 92 123 Other assets 6,358 6,302 Included in the above are balances of 4,978m 2008: 4,704m expected to be recovered within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date and balances of 1,380m 2008: 1,598m expected to be recovered more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Other assets include 3,476m 2008: 3,096m of receivables which meet the definition of financial assets.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 223 19 Deferred tax The components of deferred taxes disclosed on the balance sheet are as follows: 2009 2008 m m Deferred tax liability 470 304 Deferred tax asset 2,303 2,668 Net deferred tax 1,833 2,364 Deferred taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the liability method.
The amount of deferred tax asset expected to be recovered after more than 12 months is 2,446m 2008: 4,593m.
The deferred tax assets balance includes 197m 2008: 2,139m which is the excess deferred tax assets over deferred tax liabilities in entities which have suffered a loss in either the current or prior year.
This is based on management assessment that it is probable that the relevant entities will have taxable profits against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of deductible temporary differences gross of 4m 2008: 9m, unused tax losses gross of 8,542m 2008: 4,083m and unused tax credits of nil 2008: 46m.
The other tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise benefits.
The unused tax losses include amounts relating to non-UK branches of Barclays Bank PLC where the future tax benefit might be restricted to the amount in excess of the UK rate.
The amount of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches, associates and joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised is 738m 2008: 8,429m.
224 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 20 Investments in associates and joint ventures Share of net assets Associates Joint ventures Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008. m m m m m m At beginning of year 175 90 166 287 341 377 Share of results before tax 21 25 21 6 42 19 Share of tax 2 3 6 2 8 5 Share of post-tax results 19 22 15 8 34 14 Dividends paid 1 1 New investments 198 6 1 27 199 33 Acquisitions 38 62 3 1 41 63 Disposals 58 20 14 117 72 137 Exchange and other adjustments 122 15 2 24 120 9 At end of year 250 175 172 166 422 341 Goodwill included above: Associates Joint ventures Total 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008. m m m m m m Cost At beginning of year 31 27 31 27 Acquisitions 19 19 Exchange and other adjustments 1 1 4 2 4 At end of year 18 30 31 48 31 The Group holds investments in associates listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange: Pinnacle Point Group Limited, Blue Financial Services Limited acquired during 2009 and Sekunjalo Investments Limited acquired during 2009.
The fair value of the Groups investment in these associates is 15m 2008: 60m.
Ambit Properties Limited was disposed during 2009 2008: fair value of 51m.
Aggregate cash consideration paid for additional investments in associates and joint ventures was 82m 2008: 96m, which also included New China Trust.
Additional investments for non-cash consideration, include Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compaa fide Seguros 69m and associates held by Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC 89m.
Summarised financial information for the Groups associates and joint ventures is set out below: 2009 2008 Joint Joint Associates ventures Associates ventures.
m m m m Property, plant and equipment 1,174 98 788 104 Financial investments 772 6 124 Trading portfolio assets 426 Loans to banks and customers 712 3,124 271 2,883 Other assets 1,855 293 1,343 418 Total assets 4,939 3,521 2,526 3,405 Deposits from banks and customers 2,200 2,751 1,376 2,207 Trading portfolio liabilities 370 107 Other liabilities 1,666 380 985 890 Shareholders equity 703 283 165 308 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 4,939 3,521 2,526 3,405 Net income 1,022 391 859 357 Operating expenses 1,045 342 732 364 Loss profit before tax 23 49 127 7 Loss profit after tax 96 30 52 11 The amounts included above, which include the entire assets, liabilities and net income of the investees, not just the Groups share, are based on accounts made up to 31st December 2009 with the exception of certain undertakings for which the amounts are based on accounts made up to dates not earlier than three months before the balance sheet date.
The Groups share of commitments and contingencies of its associates and joint ventures is 5m 2008: nil.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 225 21 Goodwill 2009 2008 m m Net book value At beginning of year 7,625 7,014 Acquisitions 63 400 Business disposals discontinued operations 1,503 10 Impairment charge 1 112 Exchange and other adjustments 48 333 At end of year 6,232 7,625 Goodwill is allocated to business operations according to business segments identified by the Group under IFRS 8, as follows: a 2009 2008 m m UK Retail Banking 3,146 3,139 Barclays Commercial Bank 22 10 Barclaycard 525 413 GRCB Western Europe 886 948 GRCB Emerging Markets 39 49 GRCB Absa 1,116 1,084 Barclays Capital 107 95 Barclays Global Investors 1,496 Barclays Wealth 391 391 Goodwill 6,232 7,625 The goodwill disposal relates to Barclays Global Investors.
During 2009, the allocation of balances has been updated to reflect certain changes in the business structure.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently when there are indicators that impairment may have occurred, by comparing the carrying value to its recoverable amount.
Impairment testing of goodwill The recoverable amount of each operations goodwill is based on value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell calculations.
The calcula tions are based upon discounting expected pre-tax cash flows at a risk-adjusted interest rate appropriate to the cash generating unit, the determination of both of which requires the exercise of judgement.
The estimation of pre-tax cash flows is sensitive to the periods for which forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term sustainable cash flows.
While forecasts are compared with actual performance and external economic data, expected cash flows naturally reflect managements view of future performance.
At 31st December 2009, the goodwill allocated to UK Retail Banking was 3,146m 2008: 3,139m including 3,130m 2008: 3,130m relating to Woolwich, the goodwill allocated to GRCB Absa was 1,116m 2008: 1,084m and the goodwill allocated to Barclays Global Investors was nil 2008: 1,496m.
The remaining aggregate of goodwill of 1,986m 2008: 1,915m consists of balances relating to multiple business operations which are not considered individually significant.
Key assumptions used in impairment testing for significant goodwill UK Retail Banking The recoverable amount of UK Retail Banking has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses cash flow predictions based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period, with a terminal growth rate of 3% applied thereafter.
The forecast cash flows have been discounted at a rate of 14%.
The recoverable amount exceeded the carrying amount including goodwill by 1.2bn.
A one percentage point change in the discount rate or the terminal growth rate would reduce the recoverable amount by 0.7bn and 0.5bn respectively.
A reduction in the forecast cash flows of 5% per annum would reduce the recoverable amount by 0.4bn.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa The recoverable amount of GRCB Absa has been determined based on a value in use calculation.
The calculation uses cash flow predictions based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three year period, with a terminal growth rate of 6% applied thereafter.
The result of the impairment test is not sensitive to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Barclays Global Investors All of the goodwill in Barclays Global Investors has been disposed of following the sale of this business to BlackRock, Inc on 1st December 2009.
The value of the goodwill was recovered in full as a result of the transaction.
Note a Figures have been restated for the transfer of Barclays Russia from GRCB Emerging Markets to GRCB Western Europe.
226 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 22 Intangible assets Internally Core Mortgage generated Other deposit Customer servicing Licences software software intangibles Brands lists rights and other Total m m m m m m m m 2009 Cost At 1st January 2009 721 328 261 155 1,565 173 426 3,629 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 1 109 110 Disposal of discontinued operations 66 2 32 100 Additions disposals 264 36 11 239 Exchange and other adjustments 44 55 40 22 45 9 52 55 At 31st December 2009 963 237 301 175 1,521 164 462 3,823 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2009 284 69 52 55 172 116 104 852 Disposal of discontinued operations 25 2 8 35 Disposals 12 4 16 Amortisation charge 190 29 22 17 136 13 54 461 Impairment charge 11 6 10 27 Exchange and other adjustments 17 36 8 8 10 12 24 29 At 31st December 2009 465 58 82 84 318 117 136 1,260 Net book value 498 179 219 91 1,203 47 326 2,563 2008 Cost At 1st January 2008 388 188 244 149 524 126 161 1,780 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 127 17 6 992 210 1,352 Additions disposals 274 5 3 282 Exchange and other adjustments 59 8 49 47 52 215 At 31st December 2008 721 328 261 155 1,565 173 426 3,629 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1st January 2008 163 57 37 38 101 64 38 498 Disposals 11 7 18 Amortisation charge 86 33 14 15 62 22 59 291 Impairment release 3 3 Exchange and other adjustments 49 14 1 2 9 30 7 84 At 31st December 2008 284 69 52 55 172 116 104 852 Net book value 437 259 209 100 1,393 57 322 2,777 Of the amortisation charge for the year, 447m 2008: 276m relates to continuing operations.
The impairment release detailed above has been included within other operating expenses.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 227 23 Property, plant and equipment Investment Leased property Property Equipment assets Total m m m m m 2009 Cost At 1st January 2009 3,624 3,944 304 7,872 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 978 171 5 1,154 Disposal of discontinued operations 120 99 219 Additions disposals 137 233 387 37 720 Change in fair value of investment properties 6 6 Fully depreciated assets written off 6 17 23 Exchange and other adjustments 86 72 23 201 210 At 31st December 2009 1,207 3,830 4,197 66 9,300 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st January 2009 1,011 2,144 43 3,198 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 2 2 Disposal of discontinued operations 3364 97 Depreciation charge 201 565 20 786 Impairment charge 32 2 34 Disposals 46 97 1 144 Fully depreciated assets written off 6 17 23 Exchange and other adjustments 31 2 45 78 At 31st December 2009 1,128 2,529 17 3,674 Net book value 1,207 2,702 1,668 49 5,626 2008 Cost At 1st January 2008 2,451 2,995 413 5,859 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 992 218 1,210 Additions disposals 8570 109 469 Fully depreciated assets written off 15 7 22 Exchange and other adjustments 188 168 356 At 31st December 2008 3,624 3,944 304 7,872 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1st January 2008 1,044 1,804 15 2,863 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 8 12 20 Depreciation charge 124 475 31 630 Impairment charge 33 33 Disposals 168 185 3 356 Fully depreciated assets written off 15 7 22 Exchange and other adjustments 18 12 30 At 31st December 2008 1,011 2,144 43 3,198 Net book value 2,613 1,800 261 4,674 Of the depreciation charge for the year 759m 2008: 606m relates to continuing operations.
The fair value of Barclays investment property is based on valuations supported by appropriately qualified independent valuers.
Leased assets represent assets leased to customers under operating leases.
Certain of the Groups equipment is held on finance leases, see Note 37.
228 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 24 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 2009 2008 Contractual Contractual amount amount due on due on Fair value maturity Fair value maturity m m m m Debt securities 72,191 77,636 61,297 69,197 Deposits 6,275 6,544 10,518 10,109 Other 7,736 8,811 5,077 6,761 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 86,202 92,991 76,892 86,067 At 31st December 2009, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of 61.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes 2008: 54.5bn.
The movement in Barclays credit spreads in the year affected the fair value of these notes and as a result revaluation losses of 1,820m were recognised in trading income 2008: 1,663m gains.
The cumulative own credit net gain that has been recognised on issued notes is 501m at 31st December 2009 2008: 2,321m.
25 Other liabilities 2009 2008 m m Accruals and deferred income 6,007 6,495 Sundry creditors 5,972 6,049 Obligations under finance leases Note 37 122 96 Other liabilities 12,101 12,640 Included in the above are balances of 10,966m 2008: 11,068m expected to be settled within no more than 12 months after the balance sheet date: and balances of 1,135m 2008: 1,572m expected to be settled more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Accruals and deferred income includes 108m 2008: 101m for the Groups estimated share of levies that will be raised by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS.
The provision is based on estimates of the Groups market participation in the relevant charging periods and the interest FSCS will pay on the facilities provided by HM Treasury in support of its obligations to depositors of banks declared in default.
The total of these facilities is understood to be some 20bn.
While it is anticipated that the substantial majority of these facilities will be repaid wholly from recoveries from the institutions concerned, there is the risk of shortfall, such that the FSCS may place additional levies on FSCS participants.
It is not currently possible to estimate the amount of potential additional levies, or the Groups share, which is expected to be based on a future level of market participation, or the effect that such levies may have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
26 Insurance assets and liabilities Insurance assets Reinsurance assets are 92m 2008: 123m and relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Reinsurers share of provisions relating to the Groups short-term business are 7m 2008: 32m.
The reinsurance assets expected to be recovered after more than one year are 85m 2008: 91m.
Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities Insurance liabilities comprise the following: 2009 2008 m m Insurance contract liabilities: linked liabilities 139 125 non-linked liabilities 1,886 1,908 Provision for claims 115 119 Insurance contract liabilities including unit-linked liabilities 2,140 2,152 Insurance contract liabilities relate principally to the Groups long-term business.
Insurance contract liabilities associated with the Groups short-term non-life business are 132m 2008: 73m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 229 26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Movements in insurance assets and insurance contract liabilities were as follows: 2009 2008 Gross Reinsurance Net Gross Reinsurance Net m m m m m m At beginning of year 2,152 123 2,029 3,903 157 3,746 Change in year 12 31 19 1,751 34 1,717 At end of year 2,140 92 2,048 2,152 123 2,029 Assumptions used to measure insurance liabilities The assumptions that have the greatest effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised above, and the processes used to determine them were as follows: Long-term business linked and non-linked Mortality mortality estimates are based on standard industry and national mortality tables, adjusted where appropriate to reflect the Groups own experience.
A margin is added to ensure prudence for example, future mortality improvements for annuity business.
Renewal expenses level and inflation expense reserves are a small part of overall insurance liabilities, however, increases in expenses caused by unanticipated inflation or other unforeseen factors could lead to expense reserve increases.
Expenses are therefore set using prudent assumptions.
Initial renewal expense levels are set by considering expense forecasts for the business and, where appropriate, building in a margin to allow for the increasing burden of fixed costs on the UK closed life book of business.
The inflation assumption is set by adding a margin to the market rate of inflation implied by index-linked gilt yields.
Short-term business Short-term business for single premium policies the proportion of unearned premiums is calculated based on estimates of the frequency and severity of incidents.
Changes in assumptions There have been no changes in assumptions in 2009 that have had a material effect on the financial statements.
Uncertainties associated with cash flows related to insurance contracts and risk management activities The assumptions used to determine uncertainties in cash flows and the processes used to manage risk were as follows: Long-term insurance contracts linked and non-linked For long-term insurance contracts where death is the insured risk, the most significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims are the incidence of disease, such as AIDS, or general changes in lifestyle, such as in eating, exercise and smoking.
Where survival is the insured risk, advances in medical care and social conditions are the key factors that increase longevity.
The Group manages its exposure to risk by operating in part as a unit-linked business, prudent product design, applying strict underwriting criteria, transferring risk to reinsurers, managing claims and establishing prudent reserves.
Short-term insurance contracts For payment protection contracts where inability to make payments under a loan contract is the insured risk, the most significant factors are the health of the policyholder and the possibility of unemployment which depends upon, among other things, long-term and short-term economic factors.
The Group manages its exposure to such risks through prudent product design, efficient claims management, prudent reserving methodologies and bases, regular product, economic and market reviews and regular adequacy tests on the size of the reserves.
Absa insures property and motor vehicles, for which the most significant factors that could affect the frequency and severity of claims are climatic change and crime.
Absa manages its exposure to risk by diversifying insurance risks accepted and transferring risk to reinsurers.
Sensitivity analysis The following table presents the sensitivity of the level of insurance contract liabilities disclosed in this note to movements in the actuarial assumptions used to calculate them.
The percentage change in variable is applied to a range of existing actuarial modelling assumptions to derive the possible impact on net profit after tax.
The disclosure is not intended to explain the impact of a percentage change in the insurance assets and liabilities disclosed above.
2009 2008 Net profit Net profit Change in after tax Change in after tax variable impact variable impact %m %m Long-term insurance contracts: Improving mortality annuitants only 10 10 1 Worsening of mortality assured lives only 10 14 10 20 Worsening of base renewal expense level 20 11 20 19 Worsening of expense inflation rate 10 3 10 1 Short-term insurance contracts: Worsening of claim expense assumptions 10 5 10 3 Any change in net profit after tax would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in shareholders equity.
The above analyses are based on a change in a single assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice this is unlikely to occur.
230 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 26 Insurance assets and liabilities continued Options and guarantees The Groups insurance contracts do not contain options or guarantees that give rise to material risk.
Concentration of insurance risk The Group considers that the concentration of insurance risk that is most relevant to the Group financial statements is according to the type of cover offered and the location of insured risk.
The following table shows the maximum amounts payable under all of the Groups insurance products.
It ignores the probability of insured events occurring and the contribution from investments backing the insurance policies.
The table shows the broad product types and the location of the insured risk, before and after the impact of reinsurance that represents the risk that is passed to other insurers.
2009 2008 Before After Before After Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance Reinsurance m m m m m m Total benefits insured by product type Long-term insurance contracts 13,405 1,547 11,858 19,193 3,591 15,602 Short-term insurance contracts 49,359 4,145 45,214 36,228 2,735 33,493 Total benefits insured 62,764 5,692 57,072 55,421 6,326 49,095 Total benefits insured by geographic location United Kingdom 5,727 363 5,364 8,120 525 7,595 Other European Union 1,724 20 1,704 6,519 2,305 4,214 Africa 55,313 5,309 50,004 40,782 3,496 37,286 Total benefits insured 62,764 5,692 57,072 55,421 6,326 49,095 Reinsurer credit risk For the long-term business, reinsurance programmes are in place to restrict the amount of cover on any single life.
The reinsurance cover is spread across highly rated companies to diversify the risk of reinsurer solvency.
Net insurance reserves include a margin to reflect reinsurer credit risk.
27 Subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities, which are all issued by Barclays Bank PLC The Bank or other subsidiaries of the Group, include accrued interest and comprise dated and undated loan capital as follows: 2009 2008 m m Undated loan capital 8,148 13,673 Dated loan capital 17,668 16,169 25,816 29,842 Undated loan capital 2009 2008 Notes m m Non-convertible Barclays Bank PLC 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes a, p 424 487 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes US$1,000m a, p 784 1,118 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments b, q 560 652 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,350m c, r 928 1,109 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments m, ac 567 600 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments US$1,250m n, ad 866 1,055 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments e, s 2,608 2,514 Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes US$121m d, t 75 83 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes US$99m, 2008: US$2,000m o, af 65 1,644 Undated Floating Rate Primary Capital Notes Series 3 d, u 145 147 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds ex-Woolwich plc f, v 95 232 9% Permanent Interest Bearing Capital Bonds g, w 43 120 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes o, ae 152 1,092 7.125% Undated Subordinated Notes h, x 180 620 6.875% Undated Subordinated Notes i, y 151 729 6.375% Undated Subordinated Notes j, z 147 526 6.125% Undated Subordinated Notes k, aa 220 666 6.5% Undated Subordinated Notes FFr 1,000m 151 5.03% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 8,000m l, ab 55 51 5% Reverse Dual Currency Undated Subordinated Loan Yen 12,000m l, ab 83 77 Undated loan capital non-convertible 8,148 13,673 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 231 27 Subordinated liabilities continued Security and subordination None of the undated loan capital is secured.
The Junior Undated Floating Rate Notes the Junior Notes rank behind the claims against the Bank of depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors and holders of dated loan capital.
All other issues of undated loan capital rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Junior Notes, except for the 6% and 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes the TONs and the 5.3304%, 5.926%, 6.3688%, 7.434% and 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments the RCIs such issues, excluding the TONs and the RCIs, being the Undated Notes and Loans.
The TONs and the RCIs rank pari passu with each other and behind the claims of the holders of the Undated Notes and Loans.
Interest Notes a These TONs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2032.
After that date, in the event that the TONs are not redeemed, the TONs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
b These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2036.
After that date, in the event that the RCIs are not redeemed, the RCIs will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
c These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2016.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
e These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019.
f These Bonds bear a fixed rate of interest until 2021.
After that date, in the event that the Bonds are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
g The interest rate on these Bonds is fixed for the life of this issue.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2020.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the coupon will be reset to a fixed margin over a reference gilt rate for a further period of five years.
i These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
j These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
k These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2027.
l These Loans bear a fixed rate of interest until 2028 based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable, which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
After that date, in the event that the Loans are not redeemed, the Loans will bear Yen interest rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
m These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2019.
n These RCIs bear a fixed rate of interest until 2017.
o These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
232 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 27 Subordinated liabilities continued Barclays Bank PLC is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its Undated Notes and Loans excluding the 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds, 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC or, in certain cases, any class of preference shares of the Bank.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its 9.25% Perpetual Subordinated Bonds if, in the immediately preceding 12 months interest period, a dividend has not been paid on any class of its share capital.
Interest not so paid becomes payable in each case if such a dividend is subsequently paid or in certain other circumstances.
During the year, the Bank declared and paid dividends on its ordinary shares and on all classes of preference shares.
No payment of principal or any interest may be made unless the Bank satisfies a specified solvency test.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the 7.7% Undated Subordinated Notes and 8.25% Undated Subordinated Notes.
Until such time as any deferred interest has been paid in full, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares, preference shares, or other share capital or satisfy any payments of interest or coupons on certain other junior obligations.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the RCIs b, c, e, m and n above.
Any such deferred payment of interest must be paid on the earlier of i the date of redemption of the RCIs, ii the coupon payment date falling on or nearest to the tenth anniversary of the date of deferral of such payment, and iii in respect of e above only, substitution.
Whilst such deferral is continuing, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of its ordinary shares or preference shares.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the TONs if it determines that it is, or such payment would result in it being, in non-compliance with capital adequacy requirements and policies of the FSA.
Any such deferred payment of interest will only be payable on a redemption of the TONs.
Until such time as the Bank next makes a payment of interest on the TONs, neither the Bank nor Barclays PLC may i declare or pay a dividend, subject to certain exceptions, on any of their respective ordinary shares or Preference Shares, or make payments of interest in respect of the Banks Reserve Capital Instruments and ii certain restrictions on the redemption, purchase or reduction of their respective share capital and certain other securities also apply.
Repayment No tes p These TONs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2032. q These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2036. r These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2016. s These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June 2019. t These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole or in part on any interest payment date.
u These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
v These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2021, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
w These Bonds are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole at any time.
x These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2020, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
y These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2015, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
z These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2017, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
aa These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2027, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ab These Loans are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole in 2028, or on any fifth anniversary thereafter.
ac These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2019. ad These RCIs are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after December 2017. ae These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after December 2018. af These Notes are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date falling in or after April 2018.
In addition, each issue of undated loan capital is repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole for certain tax reasons, either at any time, or on an interest payment date.
There are no events of default except non-payment of principal or mandatory interest.
Any repayments require the prior notification to the FSA.
All issues of undated loan capital have been made in the eurocurrency market and or under Rule 144A, and no issues have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 233 27 Subordinated liabilities continued Dated loan capital Dated loan capital is issued by the Bank for the development and expansion of the Groups business and to strengthen its capital base by Barclays Bank Spain SA Barclays Spain, Barclays Bank of Botswana Ltd BBB, Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia and Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya to enhance their respective capital bases and by Absa and Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG for general corporate purposes.
It comprises: 2009 2008 Notes m m Non-convertible Barclays Bank PLC 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 US$400m 275 Subordinated Fixed to CMS-Linked Notes 2009 31m 31 12% Unsecured Capital Loan Stock 2010 a 27 27 5.75% Subordinated Notes 2011 1,000m a 853 943 5.25% Subordinated Notes 2011 250m ex-Woolwich plc a 246 260 5.015% Subordinated Notes 2013 US$150m a 99 112 4.875% Subordinated Notes 2013 750m a 693 750 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$1,500m b, j 927 1,031 4.38% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$75m a 51 88 4.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 US$150m a 103 81 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2016 US$750m b, j 463 514 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2016 1,250m b, j 1,115 1,211 Callable Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$500m b, j 309 343 10.125% Subordinated Notes 2017 ex-Woolwich plc g, j 107 109 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 US$1,500m b, j 926 1,029 Floating Rate Subordinated Step-up Callable Notes 2017 1,500m b, j 1,337 1,444 6.05% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2017 US$2,250m a 1,505 1,856 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2018 40m b 36 38 6% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes due 2018 1,750m a 1,641 1,767 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 100m b 92 100 CMS-Linked Subordinated Notes due 2018 135m b 124 135 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 50m b 43 47 Callable Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2019 1,000m h 915 984 9.5% Subordinated Bonds 2021 ex-Woolwich plc a 276 298 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2021 100m b 87 94 10% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 a 2,022 10.179% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2021 US$ 1,521m a 942 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2022 50m b 45 49 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2023 50m b 45 48 Fixed Floating Rate Subordinated Callable Notes 2023 m, j 568 571 5.75% Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2026 a 631 690 5.4% Reverse Dual Currency Subordinated Loan 2027 Yen 15,000m i 105 128 6.33% Subordinated Notes 2032 a 52 53 Subordinated Floating Rate Notes 2040 100m b 89 96 Barclays Bank SA, Spain Barclays Spain Subordinated Floating Rate Capital Notes 2011 11m b 4 11 Absa 14.25% Subordinated Callable Notes 2014 ZAR 3,100m 240 10.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 1,100m c, j 95 85 Subordinated Callable Notes 2015 ZAR 400m d, j 36 30 8.75% Subordinated Callable Notes 2017 ZAR 1,500m e, j 129 115 Subordinated Callable Notes 2018 ZAR 1,886m d, j 173 144 8.8% Subordinated Fixed Rate Callable Notes 2019 ZAR 1,725m n, j 143 146 Subordinated Callable Notes 2019 ZAR 3,000m d, j 268 8.1% Subordinated Callable Notes 2020 ZAR 2,000m f, j 160 130 Subordinated Callable Notes 2028 ZAR 1,500m d, j 127 Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd BBG 14% Fixed Rate BBG Subordinated Callable Notes 2016 GHC 10m a, j 4 5 Barclays Bank of Kenya Barclays Kenya Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2014 KES 968m o 8 8 Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 KES 740m o 6 6 Fixed Rate Subordinated Notes 2015 KES 1,260m a 10 12 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2016 ZMK 49,232m p 6 Dated loan capital non-convertible 17,643 16,134 234 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 27 Subordinated liabilities continued 2009 2008 Notes m m Convertible Barclays Bank of Botswana BBB Subordinated Unsecured Fixed Rate Capital Notes 2014 BWP 190m j, k 18 17 Barclays Bank Zambia PLC Barclays Zambia Subordinated Unsecured Floating Rate Capital Notes 2015 ZMK 49,086m j, l 7 7 Absa Redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares ZAR 147m 11 Dated loan capital convertible 25 35 Total dated loan capital 17,668 16,169 None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
The debt obligations of the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa rank ahead of the interests of holders of their equity and the dated loan capital has been issued on the basis that the claims thereunder are subordinated to the respective claims of their depositors and other unsecured unsubordinated creditors.
Interest Notes a The interest rates on these Notes are fixed for the life of those issues.
b These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London or European interbank rates.
c These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2010.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
d These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on Johannesburg interbank acceptance rates.
e These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
f These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2015.
g These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2012.
h These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
After that date, in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on European interbank rates.
i This Loan bears a fixed rate of interest based on a US Dollar principal amount, but the interest payments have been swapped, resulting in a Yen interest rate payable which is fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
j Repayable at the option of the issuer, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligations, some in whole or in part, and some only in whole.
k These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Botswana Certificate Rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of BBB, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should BBB experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
l These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rate.
All of these Notes will be compulsorily converted to Preference Shares of Barclays Zambia, having a total par value equal in sum to the principal amount of Notes outstanding at the time of conversion, should Barclays Zambia experience pre-tax losses in excess of its retained earnings and other capital surplus accounts.
m These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2018.
After that date in the event that the Notes are not redeemed, the Notes will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on London interbank rates.
n These Notes bear a fixed rate of interest until 2014.
o These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Kenya Treasury Bill rates.
p These Notes bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance based on the Central Bank of Zambia Treasury Bill rates.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 235 27 Subordinated liabilities continued The 7.4% Subordinated Notes 2009 the 7.4% Notes issued by the Bank were registered under the US Securities Act of 1933.
All other issues of dated loan capital by the Bank, Barclays Spain, BBG, BBB, Barclays Zambia, Barclays Kenya and Absa, which were made in non-US markets, have not been so registered.
Repayment terms Unless otherwise indicated, the Groups dated loan capital outstanding at 31st December 2009 is redeemable only on maturity, subject in particular cases, to provisions allowing an early redemption in the event of certain changes in tax law or, in the case of BBB and Barclays Zambia, to certain changes in legislation or regulations.
Any repayments prior to maturity require, in the case of the Bank, the prior notification to the FSA, in the case of BBB, the prior approval of the Bank of Botswana, in the case of Barclays Zambia, the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia, and in the case of Absa, the prior approval of the South African Registrar of Banks.
There are no committed facilities in existence at the balance sheet date which permit the refinancing of debt beyond the date of maturity.
28 Provisions Undrawn contractually committed facilities Redundancy and Onerous and reguarantees Sundry contracts structuring provided provisions Total m m m m m At 1st January 2009 50 118 109 258 535 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 2 1 6 7 Exchange and other adjustments 42 6 Additions 51 269 119 125 564 Amounts used 27 201 21 142 391 Unused amounts reversed 8 26 48 37 119 Amortisation of discount 2 2 At 31st December 2009 68 162 162 198 590 At 1st January 2008 64 82 475 209 830 Acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries 9 9 1 1 Exchange and other adjustments 2 63 15 80 Additions 12 269 461 102 844 Amounts used 41 213 794 42 1,090 Unused amounts reversed 11 96 25 132 Amortisation of discount 4 4 At 31st December 2008 50 118 109 258 535 Provisions expected to be recovered or settled within no more than 12 months after 31st December 2009 were 466m 2008: 333m.
Sundry provisions are made with respect to commission clawbacks, warranties and litigation claims.
29 Securitisations The Group was party to securitisation transactions involving its residential mortgage loans, business loans and credit card balances.
In addition, the Group acts as a conduit for commercial paper, whereby it acquires static pools of residential mortgage loans from other lending institutions for securitisation transactions.
In these transactions, the assets, or interests in the assets, or beneficial interests in the cash flows arising from the assets, are transferred to a special purpose entity, or to a trust which then transfers its beneficial interests to a special purpose entity, which then issues floating rate debt securities to third-party investors.
Securitisations may, depending on the individual arrangement, result in continued recognition of the securitised assets and the recognition of the debt securities issued in the transaction: lead to partial continued recognition of the assets to the extent of the Groups continuing involvement in those assets or to derecognition of the assets and the separate recognition, as assets or liabilities, of any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer.
Full derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers both its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
236 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 29 Securitisations continued The following table shows the carrying amount of securitised assets, stated at the amount of the Groups continuing involvement where appropriate, together with the associated liabilities, for each category of asset on the balance sheet: 2009 2008 Carrying Carrying amount of Associated amount of Associated assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans 10,374 10,738 12,754 13,172 Credit card receivables 1,288 1,288 1,888 2,109 Other personal lending 94 124 212 256 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 4,835 5,999 7,702 8,937 Total 16,591 18,149 22,556 24,474 Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss Retained interest in residential mortgage loans 26 316 Balances included within loans and advances to customers represent securitisations where substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset have been retained by the Group.
The excess of total associated liabilities over the carrying amount of assets primarily reflects timing differences in the receipt and payment of cash flows, and foreign exchange movements where the assets and associated liabilities are denominated in different currencies.
Retained interests in residential mortgage loans are securities which represent a continuing exposure to the prepayment and credit risk in the underlying securitised assets.
The total amount of the loans was 14,795m 2008: 31,734m.
The retained interest is initially recorded as an allocation of the original carrying amount based on the relative fair values of the portion derecognised and the portion retained.
30 Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The UK Retirement Fund UKRF, which is the main scheme of the Group, amounting to 93% of all the Groups schemes in terms of benefit obligations, comprises ten sections.
The 1964 Pension Scheme Most employees recruited before July 1997 are members of this non-contributory defined benefit scheme.
Pensions are calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary and are normally subject to a deduction from State pension age.
The Retirement Investment Scheme RIS A defined contribution plan for most joiners between July 1997 and 1st October 2003.
This was closed to new entrants on 1st October 2003 and the large majority of existing members of the RIS transferred to Afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual with effect from 1st January 2004.
There are no longer any active members of the RIS.
The Pension Investment Plan PIP A defined contribution plan created from 1st July 2001 to provide benefits for employees of Barclays Capital.
Afterwork Combines a contributory cash balance element with a voluntary defined contribution element.
The majority of new employees outside of Barclays Capital since 1st October 2003 are eligible to join Afterwork.
In addition, the large majority of active members of the RIS now closed were transferred to Afterwork in respect of future benefit accrual after 1st January 2004.
Career Average Section The Career Average Section was established in the UKRF with effect from 1st May 2004 following the transfer of members from the Woolwich Pension Fund.
The Career Average Section is a non-contributory career average scheme and was closed to new entrants on 1st December 2006.
1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section, BCPS Section, CCS Section and Mercantile Section Five new sections were established in the UKRF with effect from 31st March 2007 following the merger of the UKRF with five smaller schemes sponsored from within the Group.
All five sections are closed to new members.
The 1951 Fund Section, AP89 Section and Mercantile Section provide final salary benefits calculated by reference to service and pensionable salary.
The BCPS and CCS Sections provide defined contribution benefits.
The benefits built up in these sections in relation to service before 6th April 1997 are subject to a defined benefit minimum.
In addition, the costs of ill-health retirements and death in service benefits are generally borne by the UKRF for each of the ten sections.
From November 2008, members were given the option to contribute by way of salary sacrifice to the UKRF.
On 10th September 2009, the Trust Deed was amended such that with effect from 1st April 2010 the following sections of the UKRF will close to the accrual of future pension benefits: 1964 Pension Scheme: AP89 Section: 1951 Fund Section: Mercantile Section: Career Average Section: and CCS Section.
Members of these sections will be eligible to accrue future service pension benefits in either Afterwork or PIP from 1st April 2010.
This gave rise to the recognition of a curtailment gain during the year of 487m, the recognition of actuarial losses of 79m and an additional cost of 37m included in other staff costs.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 237 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Governance The UKRF operates under trust law and is managed and administered on behalf of the members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and all relevant legislations.
The Corporate Trustee is Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited BPFTL, a private limited company incorporated on 20th December 1990 and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
The Trustee is the legal owner of the assets of the UKRF which are held separately from the assets of the Group.
The Trustee Board comprises six Management Directors selected by Barclays, of whom three are independent Directors with no relationship with Barclays or the UKRF, and three are Member Nominated Directors.
In addition there are three Alternate Management Directors and three Alternate Member Nominated Directors.
Member Nominated Directors are selected from those eligible active staff and pensioner members who apply to be considered for the role.
The Pensions Act 2004 the Act requires corporate trustees to take responsibility for making arrangements for the nomination and selection of Member Nominated Directors MNDs.
A formal procedure has been in place since 1st September 2007, which is fully compliant with the legal requirements and reflects best practice.
Eligibility for nomination and selection is open to all members of the UKRF but excludes those in receipt of solely spouses, civil partners, dependants or ex-spouse participants pensions, deferred pensioners and members with eligibility for death benefits only.
Under the Act, the Bank and the Trustee must agree on the funding rate, including a recovery plan to fund any deficit against the scheme specific statutory funding objective.
The first ongoing funding valuation to be completed under this legislation was carried out as at 30th September 2007.
There are other pension schemes both defined benefit and defined contribution in the UK and overseas.
The same principles of pension governance applies to UK based schemes, although different legislation covers overseas schemes where, in most cases, the Bank has the power to determine the funding rate.
The following tables present an analysis of defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for all the Groups pension schemes and post-retirement benefits the latter are unfunded and present the amounts recognised in the income statement including those related to post-retirement health care.
2009 2008 2007 Other postOther postOther postretirement retirement retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m m m m Income statement charge Current service cost 281 10 291 299 2 301 332 2 334 Interest cost 992 9 1,001 991 8 999 905 8 913 Expected return on scheme assets 935 935 1,175 1,175 1,074 1,074 Recognised actuarial gain loss 96 96 23 1 24 1 1 Past service cost 6 6 2 8 6 20 20 Curtailment or settlements 473 473 5 5 32 32 Total included in staff costs 33 19 14 89 1 90 150 10 160 Staff costs are included in other operating expenses.
Of the other post retirement benefit costs 16m relate to continuing operations 2008: 1m, 2007: 9m.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The benefit obligation arises from plans that are wholly unfunded and wholly or partly funded as follows: 2009 2008 m m Unfunded obligations 288 297 Wholly or partly funded obligations 20,358 15,486 Total 20,646 15,783 Change in plan assets 2009 2008 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the year 13,537 959 14,49617,231 796 18,027 Expected return on plan assets 904 31 935 1,134 41 1,175 Employer contribution 525 76 1 6 608 336 71 2 9 418 Settlements 2 2 2 2 Contributions by plan participants 2 5 7 20 3 23 Actuarial gain loss 1,424 8 1,416 4,534 121 4,655 Benefits paid 659 58 1 6 724 598 42 2 9 651 Business disposals 6 6 Exchange and other adjustments 58 28 30 52 213 161 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 15,675 1,025 16,70013,537 959 14,496 Amounts recognised on-balance sheet The pension and post-retirement benefit assets and liabilities recognised on the balance sheet are as follows: 2009 2008 Post-retirement Post-retirement Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas m m m m m m m m m m Benefit obligation at end of period 19,209 1,277 65 95 20,646 14,395 1,220 43 125 15,783 Fair value of plan assets at end of period 15,675 1,025 16,700 13,537 959 14,496 Net deficit 3,534 252 65 95 3,946 858 261 43 125 1,287 Unrecognised actuarial losses gains 3,087 158 7 10 3,248 167 150 11 23 5 Net recognised liability 447 94 72 85 698 1,025 111 54 102 1,292 a Recognised assets 71 71 65 65 Recognised liability 447 165 72 85 769 1,025 176 54 102 1,357 Net recognised liability 447 94 72 85 698 1,025 111 54 102 1,292 The UKRF funded status, as measured using the IAS 19 assumptions detailed below, has decreased from a deficit of 0.9bn at 31st December 2008 to a deficit of 3.5bn at 31st December 2009.
The most significant reasons for this change were the decrease in AA corporate bond yields which resulted in a lower discount rate of 5.61% 31st December 2008: 6.75% and an increase in the long-term inflation assumption to 3.76% 31st December 2008: 3.16%.
The impact of the change in assumptions was partially offset by a one-off curtailment credit resulting from the closure of the UK final salary pension schemes to existing members, better than expected asset performance, and contributions paid in excess of the pension expense.
Note a Included within other assets.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 239 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Assumptions Obligations arising under defined benefit schemes are actuarially valued using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, where a defined benefit scheme is closed to new members, such as in the case of the 1964 Pension Scheme, the current service cost expressed as a percentage of salary is expected to increase in the future, although this higher rate will be applied to a decreasing payroll.
The latest actuarial IFRS valuations were carried out as at 31st December using the following assumptions: UK schemes Overseas schemes 2009 2008 2009 2008 % p. a.
Discount rate 5.61 6.75 7.53 7.09 Rate of increase in salaries 4.26 3.66 5.49 5.93 Inflation rate 3.76 3.16 3.78 3.98 Rate of increase for pensions in payment 3.56 3.06 3.27 3.17 Rate of increase for pensions in deferment 3.76 3.16 2.81 4.37 Initial health care inflation 7.00 8.00 8.50 9.00 Long-term health care inflation 5.00 5.00 5.00 5.01 Expected return on plan assets 6.70 6.80 7.44 7.95 The expected return on plan assets assumption is weighted on the basis of the fair value of these assets.
Health care inflation assumptions are weighted on the basis of the health care cost for the period.
All other assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period.
The UK Schemes discount rate assumption is based on a liability-weighted rate derived from an AA corporate bond yield curve.
The overseas health care inflation assumptions relate to the US.
Mortality assumptions The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities of the UKRF were based on the standard 2000 series tables as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
These tables are considered to be most relevant to the population of the UKRF based on their mortality history.
These were then adjusted in line with the actual experience of the UKRFs own pensioners relative to the standard table.
An allowance has been made for future mortality improvements based on the medium cohort projections published by the Continuous Mortality Investigation Bureau subject to a floor of 1% pa on future improvements.
On this basis the post-retirement mortality assumptions for the UKRF includes: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Longevity at 60 for current pensioners years Males 27.5 27.4 26.7 25.8 25.8 Females 28.7 28.5 27.9 29.5 29.5 Longevity at 60 for future pensioners currently aged 40 years Males 29.6 29.5 28.0 27.1 27.1 Females 30.6 30.5 29.1 30.7 30.6 Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis for each of the principal assumptions used to measure the benefit obligation of the UKRF are as follows: Impact on UKRF benefit obligation Decrease Decrease Increase Increase % bn 0.5% increase to: Discount rate 8.5 1.6 Rate of inflation 7.7 1.5 1 year increase to longevity at 60 2.5 0.5 Following the amendment to the UKRF Trust Deed on 10th September 2009, the UKRF benefit obligation is not sensitive to future salary growth.
240 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Post-retirement health care A one percentage point change in assumed health care trend rates, assuming all other assumptions remain constant would have the following effects for 2009: 1% increase 1% decrease m m Effect on total of service and interest cost components 1 1 Effect on post-retirement benefit obligation 13 11 Assets A long-term strategy has been set for the asset allocation of the UKRF which comprises a mixture of equities, bonds, property and other appropriate assets.
This recognises that different asset classes are likely to produce different long-term returns and some asset classes may be more volatile than others.
The long-term strategy ensures that investments are adequately diversified.
Asset managers are permitted some flexibility to vary the asset allocation from the long-term strategy within control ranges agreed with the Trustees from time to time.
The UKRF also employs derivative instruments, where appropriate, to achieve a desired exposure or return, or to match assets more closely to liabilities.
The value of assets shown reflects the actual physical assets held by the scheme, with any derivative holdings reflected on a mark to market basis.
The expected return on asset assumptions overall have been based on the portfolio of assets created after allowing for the net impact of the derivatives on the risk and return profile of the holdings.
During the second half of 2009, an investment fide-risking programme was agreed for the UKRF between the Bank and the Trustee in order to achieve a better matching between assets and liabilities and to reduce the investment risk profile of the plan.
This involved a partial sale of physical equities and purchase of index-linked gilts.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 241 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued The UKRF plan assets include 58m relating to UK private equity investments 2008: 27m and 921m relating to overseas private equity investments 2008: 735m.
These are disclosed within Equities.
Amounts included in the fair value of plan assets include 4m 2008: 5m relating to shares in Barclays Group, 5m 2008: 11m relating to bonds issued by the Barclays Group, nil 2008: nil relating to other investments in the Barclays Group, and 10m 2008: 17m relating to property occupied by Group companies.
The expected return on assets is determined by calculating a total return estimate based on weighted average estimated returns for each asset class.
Asset class returns are estimated using current and projected economic and market factors such as inflation, credit spreads and equity risk premiums.
The Group actual return on plan assets was an increase of 2,351m 2008: 3,480m decrease.
Actuarial gains and losses The actuarial gains and losses arising on plan liabilities and plan assets are as follows: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 m m m m m UK schemes Present value of obligations 19,274 14,438 16,623 17,353 18,252 Fair value of plan assets 15,675 13,537 17,231 16,761 15,571 Net deficit surplus in the plans 3,599 901 608 592 2,681 Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities amount 107 81 297 48 2 as percentage of plan liabilities 1% 1% 2% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 1,424 4,534 332 423 1,599 as percentage of plan assets 9% 33% 2% 3% 10% Overseas schemes Present value of obligations 1,372 1,345 1,011 970 1,017 Fair value of plan assets 1,025 959 796 745 819 Net deficit in the plans 347 386 215 225 198 Experience losses on plan liabilities amount 45 96 79 54 2 as percentage of plan liabilities 3% 7% 8% 6% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 8 121 11 25 2 as percentage of plan assets 1% 13% 3% Total UK and Overseas schemes Present value of obligations 20,646 15,783 17,634 18,323 19,269 Fair value of plan assets 16,700 14,496 18,027 17,506 16,390 Net deficit surplus in the plans 3,946 1,287 393 817 2,879 Experience gains and losses on plan liabilities amount 62 177 376 6 4 as percentage of plan liabilities 0% 1% 2% Difference between actual and expected return on plan assets amount 1,416 4,655 343 448 1,601 as percentage of plan assets 8% 32% 2% 3% 10% 242 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 30 Retirement benefit obligations continued Funding The most recent triennial funding valuation of the UK Retirement Fund UKRF was performed with an effective date of 30th September 2007.
In compliance with the Pensions Act 2004, the Bank and Trustee have agreed a scheme-specific funding target, statement of funding principles, and a schedule of contributions.
This agreement forms the basis of the Groups commitment that the fund has sufficient assets to make payments to members in respect of their accrued benefits as and when they fall due.
This funding valuation uses a discount rate that reflects a prudent expectation of long-term future investment returns from the current and assumed future investment strategy, and takes into account projected future salary increases when assessing liabilities arising from accrued service.
As at 30th September 2007 the funding valuation showed a surplus of 0.2bn.
The Scheme Actuary prepares an annual update of the funding position as at 30th September.
The latest annual update was carried out as at 30th September 2009 and showed a deficit of 4.8bn.
The next triennial funding valuation will take place with an effective date of 30th September 2010.
The Group has agreed funding contributions which, in aggregate, are no less than those which are sufficient to meet the Groups share of the cost of benefits accruing over each year.
The Group has, in the recent past, chosen to make funding contributions in excess of this, more consistent with the IAS 19 service cost: and in 2009 made an additional voluntary contribution of 150m.
Defined benefit contributions paid with respect to the UKRF were as follows: m Contributions paid 2009 525 2008 336 2007 355 Excluding the UKRF, the Group is expected to pay contributions of approximately 1m to UK schemes and 59m to overseas schemes in 2010.
The Group is committed to making estimated contributions to UKRF in 2010 of 290m, with potential additional voluntary contributions dependent on the schemes funding level.
31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity Ordinary shares and share premium Number of Ordinary Share shares shares premium Total mmmm At 1st January 2009 8,372 2,093 4,045 6,138 a Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 19 53035 Issue of new ordinary shares 379 94 655 749 Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 2,642 661 3,221 3,882 At 31st December 2009 11,412 2,853 7,951 10,804 At 1st January 2008 6,601 1,651 56 1,707 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 3 1 13 14 a Issued under the Incentive Share Option Plan 1 3 3 a Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 1 2 2 Issue of new ordinary shares 1,803 451 3,971 4,422 Repurchase of shares 37 10 10 At 31st December 2008 8,372 2,093 4,045 6,138 Note a The nominal value of share options issued during 2008 for the Incentive Share Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan was less than 500,000 in each case.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 243 31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued The authorised share capital of Barclays PLC is 5,290m, US$77.5m, 40m and Japanese Yen 4,000m 31st December 2008: 3,540m, US$77.5m, 40m and 4,000m comprising 20,996 million 31st December 2008: 13,996 million ordinary shares of 25p each, 0.4 million 31st December 2008: 0.4 million Sterling preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million 31st December 2008: 0.4 million US Dollar preference shares of $100 each, 150 million 31st December 2008: 150 million US Dollar preference shares of $0.25 each, 0.4 million 31st December 2008: 0.4 million Euro preference shares of 100 each, 0.4 million 31st December 2008: 0.4 million Yen preference shares of 10,000 each and 1 million 31st December 2008: 1 million staff shares of 1 each.
Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid 2009 2008 m m Ordinary shares: At beginning of year 2,093 1,650 Issued to staff under the Sharesave Share Option Scheme 1 Issued to staff under the Share Incentive Plan 5 Issue of new ordinary shares 94 451 Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes 661 Repurchase of shares 9 At end of year 2,853 2,093 Staff shares: At beginning of year 1 Repurchase of shares 1 At end of year Total 2,853 2,093 Issue of new ordinary shares During the year, the following share issues took place: Conversion of Mandatorily Convertible Notes The Mandatorily Convertible Notes MCNs, issued by Barclays Bank PLC on 27th November 2008, were converted into 2,642 million ordinary shares in Barclays PLC by 30th June 2009 at the conversion price of 1.53276.
661m was credited to share capital and the remaining 3,221m net of issuance costs was credited to the share premium account.
Warrants On 31st October 2008 Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a price of 1.97775 to Qatar Holding LLC and HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Nahyan.
On 28th October 2009, Qatar Holding LLC exercised 379.2 million warrants to subscribe for new Barclays PLC Shares.
94m was credited to share capital and the remaining 655m was credited to the share premium account.
Share repurchase No share repurchases were made during the year.
In 2008, Barclays PLC repurchased shares at a cost of 173m.
At the 2009 AGM on 23rd April 2009, Barclays PLC was authorised to repurchase 837,620,130 of its ordinary shares of 25p.
The authorisation is effective until the AGM in 2010.
Shares under option The Group has four schemes that give employees rights to subscribe for new shares in Barclays PLC.
A summary of the key terms of each scheme are included in Note 44.
At 31st December 2009, 91.3 million 2008: 94.1 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Sharesave Share Option Scheme Sharesave, no options were outstanding under the terms of the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS 2008: 0.5 million, 0.1 million 2008: 0.4 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP and 12.6 million 2008: 20.5 million options were outstanding under the terms of the Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP enabling certain Directors and members of staff to subscribe for ordinary shares between 2009 and 2017 at prices ranging from 144p to 547p.
In addition to the above, the independent trustee of the Barclays Group ESAS Employees Benefit Trust ESAS Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS.
ESAS is a deferred share bonus plan for employees of the Group.
The key terms of the ESAS are described in Note 44.
The independent trustees of the ESAS Trust make awards of Barclays shares and grant options over Barclays shares to beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust.
Beneficiaries of the ESAS Trust include employees and former employees of the Barclays Group.
244 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 31 Ordinary shares, share premium, and other equity continued The independent trustee of the Barclays Group PSP and ESOS Employees Benefit Trust PSP Trust, established by Barclays Bank PLC in 1996, operates the Performance Share Plan PSP and may satisfy awards under the ESOS.
No awards have been made under this trust since 1999.
All awards are in the form of options over Barclays shares.
The Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2002 is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
The key terms of the Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 44.
The Global Sharepurchase scheme which was established in 2009 is open to all eligible non UK employees, excluding executive Directors.
The key terms of the Global Sharepurchase scheme are described in Note 44.
32 Reserves Other reserves Capital Other Available Cash flow Currency redemption capital for sale hedging translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m m m At 1st January 2009 394 617 1,190 132 2,840 2,793 Net gains from changes in fair value 1,194 287 1,481 Net gains transferred to net profit 415 92 507 Currency translation differences 1,223 1,223 Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 670 670 Changes in insurance liabilities 67 67 Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 123 123 Tax 179 75 2 256 At 31st December 2009 394 617 110 252 1,615 2,768 At 1st January 2008 384 617 154 26 307 874 Net losses gains from changes in fair value 1,736 252 1,484 Net gains losses transferred to net profit 212 19 193 Currency translation differences 2,307 2,307 Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 382 382 Changes in insurance liabilities 17 17 Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 2 2 Tax 207 165 840 882 Repurchase of shares 10 10 At 31st December 2008 394 617 1,190 132 2,840 2,793 Available for sale net gains transferred to net profit includes 349m gain 2008: 212m gain relating to continuing operations and 66m gain 2008: nil relating to discontinued operations.
The capital redemption reserve and other capital reserve represent transfers from retained earnings in accordance with relevant legislation.
These reserves are not distributable.
The available for sale reserve represents the unrealised change in the fair value of available for sale investments since initial recognition.
The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on effective cash flow hedging instruments that will be recycled to the income statement when the hedged transactions affect profit or loss.
The currency translation reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in foreign operations, net of the effects of hedging.
Transfers from cash flow hedging reserve Gains and losses transferred from the cash flow hedging reserve were to: interest income: 22m loss 2008: 4m loss, interest expense: 272m gain 2008: 74m loss, net trading income: 165m loss 2008: 119m gain, and administration and general expenses: 7m gain 2008: 60m loss.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 245 32 Reserves continued Retained earnings and treasury shares Retained Treasury earnings shares Total m m m At 1st January 2009 24,208 173 24,035 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 9,393 9,393 Equity-settled share schemes 298 298 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 156 156 Other taxes 32 32 Net purchases of treasury shares 47 47 Transfer 80 80 Dividends paid 113 113 Conversion of mandatorily convertible notes 230 230 Other 181 181 At 31st December 2009 33,845 140 33,705 At 1st January 2008 20,970 260 20,710 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent 4,382 4,382 Equity-settled share schemes 463 463 Tax on equity-settled share schemes 4 4 Other taxes 52 52 Net purchases of treasury shares 350 350 Transfer 437 437 Dividends paid 2,344 2,344 Repurchase of shares 173 173 Arising on share issue 634 634 Issue of warrants 776 776 Other 7 7 At 31st December 2008 24,208 173 24,035 The treasury shares primarily relate to Barclays PLC shares held by employee benefit trusts in relation to the Executive Share Award Scheme, Performance Share Plan and Sharepurchase Scheme, to the extent that such shares have not been allocated to employees.
These schemes are described in Note 44.
The total number of Barclays shares held in Group employee benefit trusts at 31st December 2009 was 125.1 million 2008: 217.9 million.
No dividend rights have been waived on these shares.
The total market value of the shares held in trust, based on the year-end share price of 2.75 2008: 1.53, was 344m 2008: 333m.
As at 31st December 2009, options over 15.6 million 2008: 19.1 million of the total shares held in the trusts were exercisable.
The Group operates in a number of countries subject to regulations under which subsidiaries and other operations have to maintain minimum levels of capital.
The current policy of the Group is that the local capital requirements are met, to the greatest possible extent, through the retention of profit.
Certain countries also operate exchange control regulations which limit the amount of dividends that can be remitted to non-resident shareholders.
Retained earnings Barclays PLC Parent Company Capital Retained redemption earnings reserve m m At 1st January 2009 9,006 394 Profit after tax 125 Dividends paid 113 Conversion of mandatorily convertible notes 230 Other 228 At 31st December 2009 9,016 394 At 1st January 2008 8,990 384 Profit after tax 1,193 Dividends paid 2,414 Arising on share issue 634 Repurchase of shares 173 10 Issue of warrants 776 At 31st December 2008 9,006 394 Details of principal subsidiaries held through Barclays Bank PLC are shown in Note 41.
246 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 33 Non-controlling interests 2009 2008 m m At beginning of year 10,793 9,185 Share of profit after tax 895 905 Dividend and other payments 767 703 Equity issued by subsidiaries 1,349 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 12 1 Cash flow hedges: loss gain from changes in fair value 19 76 Currency translation differences 277 100 Additions 9 Disposals 91 11 Other 116 107 At end of year 11,201 10,793 The non-controlling interests as at 31st December represented holdings in the following: 2009 2008 m m Barclays Bank PLC issued Preference shares 5,933 5,927 Barclays Bank PLC issued Reserve Capital Instruments equity accounted 1,908 1,908 Barclays Bank PLC issued Upper Tier 2 instruments equity accounted 586 586 Absa Group Limited issued preference shares and other non-controlling interests 2,539 1,994 Other 235 378 Total 11,201 10,793 There were no Preference Shares issued by Barclays Bank PLC during the year.
34 Contingent liabilities and commitments The following table summarises the nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities and commitments with off-balance sheet risk: 2009 2008 m m Acceptances and endorsements 375 585 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security 15,406 15,652 Securities lending arrangements 27,406 38,290 Other contingent liabilities 9,587 11,783 Contingent liabilities 52,774 66,310 Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 762 859 Undrawn note issuance and revolving underwriting facilities: Forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed 46 291 Standby facilities, credit lines and other 206,467 259,666 Commitments 207,275 260,816 Nature of instruments In common with other banks, the Group conducts business involving acceptances, performance bonds and indemnities.
The majority of these facilities are offset by corresponding obligations of third parties.
An acceptance is an undertaking by a bank to pay a bill of exchange drawn on a customer.
The Group expects most acceptances to be presented, but reimbursement by the customer is normally immediate.
Endorsements are residual liabilities of the Group in respect of bills of exchange, which have been paid and subsequently rediscounted.
Guarantees and letters of credit are given as security to support the performance of a customer to third parties.
As the Group will only be required to meet these obligations in the event of the customers default, the cash requirements of these instruments are expected to be considerably below their nominal amounts.
Until the disposal of BGI on 1st December 2009, the Group facilitated securities lending arrangements for its managed investment funds whereby securities held by funds under management were lent to third parties.
Borrowers provided cash or investment grade assets as collateral equal to 100% of the market value of the securities lent plus a margin of 2% 10%.
The Group has agreed with BlackRock to continue to provide indemnities to support these arrangements for a further three years.
As at 31st December 2009, the value of the collateral held was 28,248m 2008: 39,690m and that of the stock lent was 27,406m 2008: 38,290m.
Other contingent liabilities include transaction-related customs and performance bonds and are, generally, short-term commitments to third parties which are not directly dependent on the customers creditworthiness.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 247 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments continued Commitments to lend are agreements to lend to a customer in the future, subject to certain conditions.
Such commitments are either made for a fixed period, or have no specific maturity but are cancellable by the lender subject to notice requirements.
Documentary credits commit the Group to make payments to third parties, on production of documents, which are usually reimbursed immediately by customers.
Capital commitments At 31st December 2009 the commitments for capital expenditure under contract amounted to 129m 2008: 48m.
Assets pledged Assets are pledged as collateral to secure liabilities under repurchase agreements, securitisations and stock lending agreements or as security deposits relating to derivatives.
The disclosure includes any asset transfers associated with liabilities under repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions.
The following table summarises the nature and carrying amount of the assets pledged as security against these liabilities: 2009 2008 m m Trading portfolio assets 96,176 81,186 Loans and advances 48,846 28,789 Available for sale investments 24,264 32,321 Other 77 3,812 Assets pledged 169,363 146,108 Collateral held as security for assets Under certain transactions, including reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing transactions, the Group is allowed to resell or repledge the collateral held.
The fair value at the balance sheet date of collateral accepted and repledged to others was as follows: 2009 2008 m m Fair value of securities accepted as collateral 357,159 424,819 Of which fair value of securities repledged transferred to others 283,334 374,222 35 Legal proceedings On 25th November 2009, the UK Supreme Court decided the test case relating to current account overdraft charges in favour of the banks.
The Office of Fair Trading subsequently confirmed that it will not proceed with its investigation into the fairness of these charges following the Supreme Court judgment.
Accordingly, we are seeking to have all outstanding claims which were premised on the same legal principles as those at issue in the test case discontinued or dismissed.
There remain a small number of residual complaints challenging the charges on a different basis, but these complaints are not expected to have a material effect on Barclays.
Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC and various current and former members of Barclays PLCs Board of Directors have been named as defendants in five proposed securities class actions which have been consolidated pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
The consolidated amended complaint, dated 12th February 2010, alleges that the registration statements relating to American Depositary Shares representing Preferred Stock, Series 2, 3, 4 and 5 ADS offered by Barclays Bank PLC at various times between 2006 and 2008 contained misstatements and omissions concerning amongst other things Barclays portfolio of mortgage-related including US subprime-related securities, Barclays exposure to mortgage and credit market risk and Barclays financial condition.
The consolidated amended complaint asserts claims under Sections 11, 12 a 2 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933.
Barclays considers that these ADS-related claims against it are without merit and is defending them vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate any possible loss in relation to these claims or any effect that they might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
On 15th September 2009 motions were filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. LBHI, the SIPA Trustee for Lehman Brothers Inc. the Trustee and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. the Committee.
All three motions challenge certain aspects of the transaction pursuant to which Barclays Capital Inc. BCI and other companies in the Barclays Group acquired most of the assets of Lehman Brothers Inc. LBI in September 2008 and the court order approving such sale.
The claimants seek an order: voiding the transfer of certain assets to BCI: requiring BCI to return to the LBI estate alleged excess value BCI received: and declaring that BCI is not entitled to certain assets that it claims pursuant to the sale documents and order approving the sale.
On 16th November 2009, LBHI, the Trustee and the Committee filed separate complaints in the Bankruptcy Court asserting claims against BCI based on the same underlying allegations as the pending motions and seeking relief similar to that which is requested in the motions.
On 29th January 2010, BCI filed its response to the motions.
Barclays considers that the motions and claims against BCI are without merit and BCI is vigorously defending its position.
On 29th January 2010, BCI also filed a motion seeking delivery of certain assets that LBHI and LBI have failed to deliver as required by the sale documents and the court order approving the sale.
It is not possible to estimate any possible loss to Barclays in relation to these matters or any effect that these matters might have upon operating results in any particular financial period.
Barclays is engaged in various other litigation proceedings both in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, including the United States, involving claims by and against it which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Barclays does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of the proceedings to which Barclays is party to have a significant adverse effect on the financial position of the Group and Barclays has not disclosed the contingent liabilities associated with these claims either because they cannot reasonably be estimated or because such disclosure could be prejudicial to the conduct of the claims.
248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 36 Competition and regulatory matters The scale of regulatory change remains challenging and the global financial crisis is resulting in a significant tightening of regulation and changes to regulatory structures globally, especially for banks that are deemed to be of systemic importance.
Concurrently, there is continuing political and regulatory scrutiny of the operation of the banking and consumer credit industries in the UK and elsewhere which, in some cases, is leading to increased regulation.
For example, the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 in the US will restrict many credit card pricing and marketing practices.
The nature and impact of future changes in the legal framework, policies and regulatory action cannot currently be fully predicted and are beyond Barclays control but, especially in the area of banking regulation, are likely to have an impact on Barclays businesses and earnings.
The market for payment protection insurance PPI has been under scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and financial services regulators.
Following a reference from the Office of Fair Trading OFT, the UK Competition Commission CC undertook an in-depth enquiry into the PPI market.
The CC published its final report on 29th January 2009 concluding that the businesses which offer PPI alongside credit face little or no competition when selling PPI to their credit customers.
In March 2009, Barclays submitted a targeted appeal focused on the prohibition on sale of PPI at the point of sale POSP remedy on the basis that it was not based on sound analysis, and is unduly draconian.
The Competition Appeals Tribunal CAT upheld Barclays appeal on two grounds, meaning that the CC will be required to reconsider the POSP remedy and the basis for it, and made an order to that effect on 26th November 2009.
This remittal process is expected to take until the autumn of 2010, at which time the CC will publish its final Remedies Order.
Separately, in 2006, the FSA published the outcome of its broad industry thematic review of PPI sales practices in which it concluded that some firms fail to treat customers fairly and that the FSA would strengthen its actions against such firms.
Tackling poor PPI sales practices remains a priority for the FSA.
In September 2009, the FSA issued a Consultation Paper on the assessment and redress of PPI complaints made on or after 14th January 2005.
The FSA has announced that it intends to publish a final version of the policy statement in early 2010 and will amend the DISP Dispute Resolution: Complaints rules in the FSA Sourcebook.
Barclays voluntarily complied with the FSAs request to cease selling single premium PPI by the end of January 2009.
The OFT has carried out investigations into Visa and MasterCard credit card interchange rates.
A decision by the OFT in the MasterCard interchange case was set aside by the CAT in 2006.
The OFT is progressing its investigations in the Visa interchange case and a second MasterCard interchange case in parallel and both are ongoing.
The outcome is not known but these investigations may have an impact on the consumer credit industry in general and therefore on Barclays business in this sector.
In 2007, the OFT expanded its investigations into interchange rates to include debit cards.
Notwithstanding the Supreme Court ruling in relation to the test case see Note 35 on page 247 Barclays continues to be involved in the OFTs work on personal current accounts.
The OFT initiated a market study into personal current accounts PCAs in the UK in 2007 which also included an examination of other retail banking products, in particular savings accounts, credit cards, personal loans and mortgages in order to take into account the competitive dynamics of UK retail banking.
In 2008, the OFT published its market study report, in which it concluded that certain features of the UK PCA market were not working well for consumers.
The OFT reached the provisional view that some form of regulatory intervention is necessary in the UK PCA market.
The OFT also held a consultation to seek views on the findings and possible measures to address the issues raised in its report.
In October 2009, the OFT published a follow-up report containing details of voluntary initiatives in relation to transparency and switching agreed between the OFT and the industry.
A further follow-up report is expected in March 2010 to provide details of voluntary initiatives agreed in relation to charging structures.
Barclays has participated fully in the market study process and will continue to do so.
US laws and regulations require compliance with US economic sanctions, administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, against designated foreign countries, nationals and others.
HM Treasury regulations similarly require compliance with sanctions adopted by the UK government.
Barclays has been conducting an internal review of its conduct with respect to US Dollar payments involving countries, persons and entities subject to these sanctions and has been reporting to governmental authorities about the results of that review.
Barclays received inquiries relating to these sanctions and certain US Dollar payments processed by its New York branch from the New York County District Attorneys Office and the US Department of Justice, which, along with other authorities, has been reported to be conducting investigations of sanctions compliance by non-US financial institutions.
Barclays has responded to those inquiries and is cooperating with the regulators, the Department of Justice and the District Attorneys Office in connection with their investigations of Barclays conduct with respect to sanctions compliance.
Barclays has also received a formal notice of investigation from the FSA, and has been keeping the FSA informed of the progress of the US investigations and Barclays internal review.
It is currently not possible to predict the ultimate resolution of the issues covered by Barclays review and the investigations, including the timing and potential financial impact of any resolution, which could be substantial.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 249 37 Leasing The Group is both lessor and lessee under finance and operating leases, providing asset financing for its customers and leasing assets for its own use.
In addition, assets leased by the Group may be sublet to other parties.
An analysis of the impact of these transactions on the Group balance sheet and income statement is as follows: a As Lessor Finance lease receivables The Group specialises in asset-based lending and works with a broad range of international technology, industrial equipment and commercial companies to provide customised finance programmes to assist manufacturers, dealers and distributors of assets.
Finance lease receivables are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Groups net investment in finance lease receivables was as follows: 2009 2008 Gross Present value of Gross Present value of investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed investment in Future minimum lease Unguaranteed finance lease finance payments residual finance lease finance payments residual receivables income receivable values receivables income receivable values m m m m m m m m Not more than one year 3,513 456 3,057 55 3,929 689 3,240 149 Over one year but not more than five years 7,597 1,117 6,480 154 8,668 1,673 6,995 355 Over five years 2,084 427 1,657 407 3,419 768 2,651 25 Total 13,194 2,000 11,194 616 16,016 3,130 12,886 529 The allowance for uncollectable finance lease receivables included in the allowance for impairment amounted to 321m at 31st December 2009 2008: 189m.
Operating lease receivables The Group acts as lessor, whereby items of plant and equipment are purchased and then leased to third parties under arrangements qualifying as operating leases.
The items purchased to satisfy these leases are included within plant and equipment see Note 23 and are generally disposed of at the end of the lease term.
The future minimum lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable operating leases at 31st December 2009 were as follows: 2009 2008 Plant and Plant and equipment equipment m m Not more than one year 10 80 Over one year but not more than two years 7 42 Over two years but not more than three years 7 36 Over three years but not more than four years 6 24 Over four years but not more than five years 8 13 Over five years 1 39 Total 39 234 250 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 37 Leasing continued b As Lessee Finance lease commitments The Group leases items of property, plant and equipment on terms that meet the definition of finance leases.
Finance lease commitments are included within other liabilities see Note 25.
Obligations under finance leases were as follows: 2009 2008 Total future Total future minimum minimum payments payments m m Not more than one year 16 35 Over one year but not more than two years 7 13 Over two years but not more than three years 30 14 Over three years but not more than four years 18 17 Over four years but not more than five years 17 14 Over five years 34 3 Net obligations under finance leases 122 96 The carrying amount of assets held under finance leases at the balance sheet date was: 2009 2008 m m Cost 127 87 Accumulated depreciation 84 67 Net book value 43 20 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices, branches and other premises under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation and renewal rights.
There are no contingent rents payable.
The Group also leases equipment under non-cancellable lease arrangements.
Where the Group is the lessee the future minimum lease payment under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2009 2008 Property Equipment Property Equipment m m m m Not more than one year 459 9 275 5 Over one year but not more than two years 424 6 354 1 Over two years but not more than three years 378 334 1 Over three years but not more than four years 334 315 Over four years but not more than five years 341 465 5 Over five years 2,933 3 2,744 1 Total 4,869 18 4,487 13 The total of future minimum sublease payments to be received under non-cancellable subleases at the balance sheet date is 147m 2008: 158m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 251 38 Disposal of subsidiaries During the year, the Group disposed of Barclays Global Investors BGI, 50% of Barclays Vida y Pensiones Compaa fide Seguros and 7% of the GRCB Emerging Markets Botswana business.
BGI Other Total 2009 2009 2009 m m m Consideration received including hedging gains: a Cash received 4,207 158 4,365 Non-cash consideration 5,294 118 5,412 Total consideration received 9,501 276 9,777 Assets and liabilities disposed of: Assets Cash and balances at central banks 667 667 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 393 393 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 71,791 71,791 Derivative financial instruments 55 Loans and advances to customers 44 Available for sale investments 55 788 843 Other assets 398 204 602 Goodwill and Intangible assets 1,586 1,586 Property, plant and equipment 122 122 Deferred tax assets 99 99 Total 74,718 1,394 76,112 Liabilities Customer accounts 368 368 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 71,791 415 72,206 Derivative financial instruments 8 8 Other liabilities 911 74 985 Current tax liabilities 35 35 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 354 354 Deferred tax liabilities 16 16 Total 72,667 1,235 73,902 Net assets disposed of 2,051 159 2,210 Group share of net assets disposed of 2,051 82 2,133 Transaction costs 539 10 549 Amounts relating to non-controlling interests 580 580 Gain on sale before tax 6,331 184 6,515 Tax 43 28 71 Gain on sale, net of tax 6,288 156 6,444 On 1st December 2009 the Group completed the sale of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock recognising a profit on disposal before tax of 6,331m.
The tax charge of 43m reflects the application of UK substantial shareholdings relief in accordance with UK tax law.
The consideration at completion was $15.2bn 9.5bn, including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving an economic interest of 19.9% of the enlarged BlackRock group.
Barclays Group holds 4.9% of the voting rights and under the terms of the transaction may not acquire additional voting rights and will vote in accordance with the recommendations of the BlackRock Board of Directors.
John Varley and Robert E Diamond Jr. have been appointed to the BlackRock Board, which comprises 18 Directors.
The Group is not deemed to exercise significant influence and the investment has been accounted for as an available for sale equity investment.
The Group has provided BlackRock with customary warranties and indemnities in connection with the sale.
Barclays will also continue to indemnify securities lending arrangements until 30th November 2012 included within contingent liabilities in Note 34 and provide support to certain BGI cash funds until December 2013 in the form of credit derivatives included within derivative liabilities in Note 14 and financial guarantees included within provisions in Note 28.
In addition, Barclays, BlackRock and their respective affiliates also enter into agreements and transactions with one another in the ordinary course of their respective businesses and on an arms length commercial basis, subject to applicable regulation and agreements with relevant regulators.
In connection with its financing of its acquisition of BGI, BlackRock entered into a 364-day revolving credit facility with a group of lenders including Barclays, who is also acting as revolving agent.
Of the $2bn credit facility, $0.8bn was committed by other lenders and following completion BlackRock had borrowed or notified to be borrowed $1.5bn under the facility.
All amounts borrowed under this facility have been fully repaid and the facility was terminated prior to 31st December 2009.
Prior year disposals In 2008, the Group disposed of Barclays Life Assurance Limited.
There were no material disposals in 2007.
Note a Net cash consideration received from the sale of BGI, excluding the effect of hedging, cash balances disposed of and transaction costs paid, was 2,469m.
252 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 39 Discontinued operations The disposed BGI business has been treated as a discontinued operation, the results of which are set out below.
For the year ended 31st December 2009 the results are for the 11 month period up to the date of disposal.
2009 2008 2007 m m m Net interest income 33 12 Net fee and commission income 1,759 1,916 1,937 Net trading income loss 67 10 5 Other income 4 10 2 Total income 1,863 1,916 1,956 Operating expenses excluding amortisation of intangible assets 1,123 960 1,095 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 15 8 Operating expenses 1,137 975 1,103 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 726 941 853 Tax on discontinued operations 237 337 282 Profit after tax from discontinued operations 489 604 571 a Profit on disposal of discontinued operations 6,331 Tax on disposal 43 Net profit on the disposal of the discontinued operation 6,288 Profit after tax from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 Other comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations is as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Available for sale assets 10 9 1 Currency translation reserve 85 133 11 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 17 10 14 Other comprehensive income, net of tax, from discontinued operations 58 114 26 The cash flows attributable to the discontinued operations were as follows: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Cash flows from discontinued operations Net cash flows from operating activities 333 524 773 Net cash flows from investing activities 25 93 248 Net cash flows from financing activities 550 362 429 Effects of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 134 217 13 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 376 286 83 Notes a Details of the profit on disposal are shown in Note 38. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 253 40 Acquisition of subsidiaries a Crescent Real Estate On 19th November 2009, Barclays formed Crescent Real Estate Holdings LLC a joint venture with Goff Capital, Inc. to assume 99.7% ownership of Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited partnership Crescent following the completion of a debt restructuring transaction.
Crescent is a real estate investment company that owns and manages office space, as well as investments in resort residential developments and luxury hotels across the US.
These properties are accounted for as investment properties.
The assets and liabilities of Crescent at acquisition were as follows: Carrying value preFair value Fair acquisition adjustments values m m m Assets Loans and advances to customers 85 85 Investment in associates and joint ventures 132 45 87 Property, plant and equipment 879 69 948 Other assets 154 2 152 Total assets 1,250 22 1,272 Liabilities Deposits from banks 170 170 Other liabilities 102 3 99 Total liabilities 272 3 269 Net assets 978 25 1,003 Group share of net assets acquired 978 25 1,003 Acquisition cost Loans 1,003 Total consideration 1,003 No goodwill arose on acquisition.
The results of Crescents operations have been included from 19th November 2009 and did not materially contribute to the consolidated profit before tax.
It is impracticable to disclose the revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity as though the acquisition date had been 1st January 2009.
254 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 40 Acquisition of subsidiaries continued b Other acquisitions Other acquisitions made by the Group during the year included 100% of PT Bank Akita on 1st February 2009 and 100% of the Portuguese credit card business of Citibank International PLC on 1st December 2009.
The Group increased its share in Abseq Properties Pty Ltd previously accounted for as an associate to 85% on 30th January 2009.
On 6th April 2009, the Group acquired 100% of Care Principles as part of a debt restructuring transaction.
None of these acquisitions were individually material.
Details of the net assets acquired and the consideration paid are set out in aggregate below.
The results of their operations have been included from the dates acquired and contributed a loss of 17m to the consolidated profit before tax.
Carrying value preFair value Other Fair acquisition adjustments adjustments values m m m m Assets Loans and advances to customers 598 9 589 Investments in associates and joint ventures 3 3 Intangible assets 751691 Property, plant and equipment 201 5 206 Other assets 38 38 Total assets 840 71 16 927 Liabilities Deposits from banks 806 45 117 644 Customer accounts 48 48 Derivative financial instruments 32 19 13 Deferred tax liabilities 14 26 40 Other liabilities 111 18 2 95 Total liabilities 979 5 134 840 Net assets acquired 139 76 150 87 Group share of net assets acquired 66 Acquisition cost Cash Paid 24 Deferred consideration 19 Attributable costs 4 Total consideration 47 Goodwill 7 Gain on acquisition 26 Cash outflows in respect of acquisitions The aggregate net outflow of cash from the acquisition of the above Group entities was 28m, representing cash consideration and attributable costs.
Prior year acquisitions The initial accounting for the 2008 acquisition of the North American businesses of Lehman Brothers was completed on 22nd September 2009.
There were no revisions to the initial accounting disclosed in the 2008 financial statements.
Approximately 2.3bn of the assets acquired as part of the acquisition had not been received by 31st December 2009, approximately 1.8bn of which were recognised as part of the accounting for the acquisition and are included in the balance sheet as at 31st December 2009.
Ongoing legal proceedings related to the acquisition, including in respect of assets not yet received, are discussed in Note 35.
In addition, in 2008 the Group acquired Macquarie Bank Limiteds residential mortgage businesses, Goldfish credit card UK businesses and 100% of the ordinary shares of Expobank.
In 2007, the Group acquired 100% of the ordinary shares of each of Indexchange Investment AG, Equifirst Corporation and Walbrook Group Limited.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 255 41 Investment in subsidiaries The investment in Barclays Bank PLC is stated on the balance sheet of Barclays PLC at a cost of 20,215m 2008: 15,340m.
The increase of 4,875m 2008: 5,154m during the year represents the cost of additional shares of 25m 2008: 16m, capital contributions of 800m 2008: 4,362m and a non-cash capital contribution of 4,050m 2008: 776m.
Principal subsidiaries Percentage of equity Country of registration capital held or incorporation Company name Nature of business % Botswana Barclays Bank of Botswana Limited Banking 67.8 Egypt Barclays Bank Egypt SAE Banking 100 England Barclays Bank PLC Banking, holding company 100 England Barclays Mercantile Business Finance Limited Loans and advances including leases to customers 100 England Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited Banking, securities industries and trust services 100 England Barclays Stockbrokers Limited Stockbroking 100 England Barclays Capital Securities Limited Securities dealing 100 England FIRSTPLUS Financial Group PLC Secured loan provider 100 England Gerrard Investment Management Limited Investment management 100 Ghana Barclays Bank of Ghana Limited Banking 100 Ireland Barclays Insurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 Ireland Barclays Assurance Dublin Limited Insurance provider 100 Isle of Man Barclays Private Clients International Limited Banking 100 Japan Barclays Capital Japan Limited Securities dealing 100 Jersey Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited Banking, trust company 100 Kenya Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Banking 68.5 Russia Barclays Bank LLC Banking 100 South Africa Absa Group Limited Banking 55.5 Spain Barclays Bank SA Banking 99.7 Switzerland Barclays Bank Suisse S. A.
Banking and trust services 100 USA Barclays Capital Inc. Securities dealing 100 USA Barclays Financial Corporation Holding company for US credit card issuer 100 USA Barclays Group US Inc. Holding company 100 Zimbabwe Barclays Bank of Zimbabwe Limited Banking 67.7 In accordance with Section 410 2 a of the Companies Act 2006, the above information is provided solely in relation to principal subsidiaries.
The country of registration or incorporation is also the principal area of operation of each of the above subsidiaries.
Investments in these subsidiaries are held directly by Barclays Bank PLC except where marked.
Full information of all subsidiaries will be included in the Annual Return to be filed at UK Companies House.
Entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights There are a number of entities in which the Group holds less than half the voting rights which are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates that the entity is controlled by the Group.
Such entities are deemed to be controlled by the Group when relationships with such entities give rise to benefits that are in substance no different from those that would arise were the entity a subsidiary.
The consolidation of such entities may be appropriate in a number of situations, but primarily when: the operating and financial policies of the entity are closely defined from the outset i. e. it operates on an autopilot basis with such policies being largely determined by the Group: the Group has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the entity and or retains the majority of the residual or ownership risks related to the entity: or the activities of the entity are being conducted largely on behalf of the Group according to its specific business objectives.
Such entities are created for a variety of purposes including securitisation, structuring, asset realisation, intermediation and management.
Subsidiaries with a different reporting date from that of the Parent of 31st December Entities may have a different reporting date from that of the Parent of 31st December.
Dates may differ for a variety of reasons including local reporting regulations or tax laws.
In accordance with our accounting policies, for the purpose of inclusion in the consolidated financial statements of Barclays PLC, entities with different reporting dates are made up until 31st December.
256 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 41 Investment in subsidiaries continued Entities where the Groups interest exceeds 50% which are excluded from consolidation Although the Groups interest in the equity voting rights in certain entities exceeds 50%, or it may have the power to appoint a majority of their Boards of Directors, they are excluded from consolidation because the Group either cannot direct the financial and operating policies of these entities, or on the grounds that another entity has a superior economic interest in them.
Consequently, these entities are not deemed to be controlled by Barclays.
The table below includes information in relation to such entities as required by the Companies Act 2006 Section 410 2 b.
Equity Retained Percentage of shareloss ordinary share holders for the Country of registration capital held funds year or incorporation Name %mm UK Fitzroy Finance Limited 100 Cayman Islands Palomino Limited 100 1 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration a Related party transactions Parties are considered to be related if one party has the ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in making financial or operation decisions, or one other party controls both.
The definition includes subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and the Groups pension schemes, as well as other persons.
Subsidiaries Transactions between Barclays PLC and subsidiaries also meet the definition of related party transactions.
Where these are eliminated on consolidation, they are not disclosed in the Group financial statements.
Transactions between Barclays PLC and its subsidiary, Barclays Bank PLC are fully disclosed in its balance sheet and income statement.
A list of the Groups principal subsidiaries is shown in Note 41.
Associates, joint ventures and other entities The Group provides banking services to its associates, joint ventures, the Group pension funds principally the UK Retirement Fund and to entities under common directorships, providing loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest bearing deposits and current accounts to these entities as well as other services.
Group companies also provide investment management and custodian services to the Group pension schemes.
The Group also provides banking services for unit trusts and investment funds managed by Group companies and are not individually material.
All of these transactions are conducted on the same terms as third-party transactions.
Entities under common directorships The Group enters into normal commercial relationships with entities for which members of the Groups Board also serve as Directors.
The amounts included in the Groups financial statements relating to such entities that are not publicly listed are shown in the table opposite under Entities under common directorships.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 257 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Amounts included in the accounts, in aggregate, by category of related party entity are as follows: Pension Entities funds, unit under trusts and Joint common investment Associates ventures directorships funds Total m m m m m For the year ended and as at 31st December 2009 Income statement: Interest received 3 90 7 100 Interest paid 18 18 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 10 9 6 25 Fees paid for services provided 47 113 160 Principal transactions 11 35 6 40 Impairment 2 5 7 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 144 1,145 192 1,481 Derivative transactions 38 48 59 Other assets 76 193 269 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 654 654 Customer accounts 54 252 29 23 358 Derivative transactions 3 10 13 Other liabilities 2 22 23 47 For the year ended and as at 31st December 2008 Income statement: Interest received 105 3 108 Interest paid 73 73 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 15 5 20 Fees paid for services provided 44 146 190 Principal transactions 8 59 60 25 102 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 110 954 34 1,098 Derivative transactions 9 311 15 335 Other assets 67 276 3 346 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 592 592 Customer accounts 167 74 10 251 Derivative transactions 111 41 152 Other liabilities 3 18 28 49 For the year ended and as at 31st December 2007 Income statement: Interest received 588 1 94 Interest paid 1 58 1 60 Fees received for services rendered including investment management and custody and commissions 1 34 26 61 Fees paid for services provided 52 78 130 Principal transactions 27 45 16 2 Assets: Loans and advances to banks and customers 142 1,285 40 1,467 Derivative transactions 4 36 40 Other assets 213 106 14 333 Liabilities: Deposits from banks 11 11 Customer accounts 61 33 12 106 Derivative transactions 10 50 60 Other liabilities 4 125 129 258 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued No guarantees, pledges or commitments have been given or received in respect of these transactions in 2009, 2008 or 2007.
Derivatives transacted on behalf of the Pensions Funds Unit Trusts and Investment Funds amounted to 192m 2008: 318m, 2007: 22m.
In 2008 Barclays paid 12m 2007: 18m of its charitable donations through the Charities Aid Foundation, a registered charitable organisation, in which a Director of the Company was a Trustee.
In 2009, following personnel changes, Charities Aid Foundation is not a related party.
Key Management Personnel The Groups Key Management Personnel, and persons connected with them, are also considered to be related parties for disclosure purposes.
Key Management Personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of Barclays PLC directly or indirectly and comprise the Directors of Barclays PLC and the Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Group Chief Executive and the heads of major business units.
There were no material related party transactions with Entities under common directorship where a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person is also a Director or other member of Key Management Personnel or any connected person of Barclays.
The Group provides banking services to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them.
Transactions during the year and the balances outstanding at 31st December 2009 were as follows: Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2009 2008 2007 m m m Loans outstanding at 1st January 7.3 7.4 7.8 Loans issued during the year 1.9 6.9 2.7 Loan repayments during the year 1.6 5.5 3.2 Loans outstanding at 31st December 7.6 8.8 7.3 Interest income earned 0.1 0.4 0.4 No allowances for impairment were recognised in respect of loans to Directors or other members of Key Management Personnel or any connected person in 2009, 2008 or 2007.
2009 2008 2007 m m m Deposits outstanding at 1st January 28.7 8.9 15.0 Deposits received during the year 160.0 235.7 114.4 Deposits repaid during the year 158.0 221.9 115.0 Deposits outstanding at 31st December 30.7 22.7 14.4 Interest expense on deposits 0.1 0.5 0.6 During 2009 the membership of the Group Executive Committee increased.
These additional persons became Officers of the Group and as such are included in Key Management Personnel for 2009, but not 2008.
Of the loans outstanding above, 0.1m 2008: 1.6m, 2007: nil relates to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
Of the deposits outstanding above, 3.7m 2008: 6.1m, 2007: 2.8m related to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them that left the Group during the year.
The amounts disclosed as at 1st January includes deposits outstanding for those who became Directors or Key Management Personnel during the year.
All loans to Directors and other Key Management Personnel and persons connected to them, a were made in the ordinary course of business, b were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions with other persons and c did not involve more than a normal risk of collectability or present other unfavourable features: with the exception of 692 provided on an interest free basis.
A loan of 692 provided on an interest free basis was granted to one non-Director member of Barclays Key Management to purchase a commuter rail ticket.
The maximum loan outstanding during the year was 692.
Commuter rail ticket loans are provided to all Barclays staff members upon request on the same terms.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 259 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Remuneration of Directors and other Key Management Personnel Directors, other Key Management Personnel and connected persons 2009 2008 2007 m m m Salaries and other short-term benefits 8.6 10.7 23.7 Pension costs 0.7 0.9 1.1 Other long-term benefits 2.5 1.6 9.2 Share-based payments 15.8 11.8 31.7 Employer social security charges on emoluments 2.9 2.7 7.8 30.5 27.7 73.5 b Disclosure required by the Companies Act 2006 The following information is presented in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Directors remuneration 2009 2008 m m Aggregate emoluments 8.8 6.0 Gains made on the exercise of share options 8.9 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes 7.4 17.7 13.4 Actual pension contributions of 18,786 were paid to money purchase schemes on behalf of one Director 2008: 11,745, one Director.
Notional pension contributions to money purchase schemes were nil 2008: nil.
As at 31st December 2009, two Directors were accruing retirement benefits under a defined benefit scheme 2008: two Directors.
One Director Frits Seegers agreed to waive his fees as non-executive Director of Absa Group Limited and Absa Bank Limited.
In both 2008 and 2009 the fees were paid to Barclays.
Directors and Officers shareholdings and options The beneficial ownership of the ordinary share capital of Barclays PLC by all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC involving 23 persons and Bar clays Bank PLC involving 24 persons at 31st December 2009 amounted 20,000,820 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.18% of the ordinary share capital outstanding and 20,008,541 ordinary shares of 25p each 0.18% of the ordinary share capital outstanding, respectively.
Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC held in total involving 12 persons at 31st December 2009, options to purchase 3,279,642 Barclays PLC ordinary shares of 25p each at prices ranging from 255p to 470p under Sharesave and ranging from 317p to 520p under the Incentive Share Option Plan, respectively.
260 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 42 Related party transactions and Directors remuneration continued Advances and credit to Directors and guarantees on behalf of Directors In accordance with Section 413 of the Companies Act 2006 and in relation to those who served as Directors of the Company at any time in the financial year, the total amount of advances and credits at 31st December 2009 was 1.8m 2008: 0.8m.
The total amount of guarantees on behalf of Directors at 31st December 2009 was nil 2008: nil.
c US disclosures For US disclosure purposes, the aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC who held office during the year 2009: 28 persons, 2008: 24 persons, 2007: 22 persons for the year ended 31st December 2009 amounted to 29.8m 2008: 26.8m, 2007: 64.6m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside for the year ended 31st December 2009, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.7m 2008: 0.9m, 2007: 1.1m.
The aggregate emoluments of all Directors and Officers of Barclays Bank PLC who held office during the year 2009: 29 persons, 2008: 25 persons, 2007: 23 persons for the year ended 31st December 2009 amounted to 30.1m 2008: 26.9m and 2007: 64.9m.
In addition, the aggregate amount set aside by the Bank and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31st December 2009, to provide pension benefits for the Directors and Officers amounted to 0.7m 2008: 0.9m, 2007: 1.1m.
43 Events after the balance sheet date On 1st January 2010, the Group acquired 100% ownership of Standard Life Bank Plc for a consideration of 227m in cash.
The assets acquired include a savings book of approximately 5.8bn, and a mortgage book with outstanding balances of approximately 7.5bn.
As announced on 3rd November 2009, the Group has made changes to its business structure, which will be reflected in the Groups external financial reporting for periods commencing 1st January 2010.
The segmental information presented in Note 53 represents the business segments and other operations used for management and reporting purposes during the year ended 31st December 2009.
On 17th February 2010, 626.8 million of the 758.4 million warrants held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited a subsidiary of Nexus Capital Investing Limited were exercised for an aggregate exercise price of approximately 1,240m.
As a result 626.8 million new ordinary shares were issued representing a 5.2% ownership in the Groups enlarged share capital.
44 Share-based payments The Group operates share schemes for employees throughout the world.
The main current schemes are: Sharesave Eligible employees in the UK, Spain and Ireland may participate in the Barclays Sharesave scheme.
Under this scheme, employees may enter into contracts to save up to 250 per month Ireland: 500, Spain: 135 and, at the expiry of a fixed term of three, five or seven years Spain: three years, have the option to use these savings to acquire shares in the Company at a discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The discount is currently 20% of the market price at the date the options are granted.
Participants in the scheme have six months from the date of vest in which the option can be exercised.
UK Sharepurchase UK Sharepurchase was introduced in January 2002.
It is an HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee share plan.
The plan is open to all eligible UK employees, including executive Directors.
Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per tax year, which, if kept in trust for five years, can be withdrawn from the plan tax-free.
Matching shares were introduced to the scheme during 2005 where the purchase of Barclays shares by the participant are matched equally by the Company up to a value of 600 per tax year.
Any shares in the plan will earn dividends in the form of additional shares, which must normally be held by the trustee for three years before being eligible for release.
Global Sharepurchase Global Sharepurchase was introduced in August 2009.
The plan is open to all eligible employees in countries outside the UK, including executive Directors.
In 2009, the plan was launched in Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Switzerland.
Under the plan, participants are able to purchase up to 1,500 worth of Barclays PLC ordinary shares per calendar year, from post-tax salary.
The purchase of Barclays shares by the participant is matched by the Company on a one-for-one basis up to a value of 600 per calendar year.
Matching Shares are forfeited if the participant chooses to sell shares purchased from their post-tax salary before the third anniversary of purchase.
Executive Share Award Scheme ESAS For certain employees of the Group an element of their annual bonus is in the form of a deferred award of a provisional allocation of Barclays PLC shares under ESAS.
The total value of the bonus made to the employee of which ESAS is an element is dependent upon the business unit, Group and individual employee performance.
The ESAS element of the annual bonus must normally be held for at least three years.
Additional bonus shares are subsequently awarded to recipients of the provisional allocation and vest upon achieving continued service for three and five years from the date of award.
ESAS awards are also made to eligible employees for recruitment purposes.
All awards are subject to potential forfeit if the individual resigns and commences work with a competitor business.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Performance Share Plan PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM to replace the ISOP scheme.
Performance shares are free Barclays shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends.
Performance share awards are communicated to participants as an initial allocation.
Barclays performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Incentive Share Plan Incentive Shares The Incentive Share Plan Incentive Shares was introduced in March 2008.
Incentive Shares are granted to participants in the form of a provisional allocation of Barclays shares which vest upon achieving continued service after three years.
Participants do not pay to receive an award or to receive a release of shares.
Incentive Shares qualify for dividends.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 261 44 Share-based payments continued Options granted under the following schemes are over subsidiaries of Barclays PLC: Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust AGLSIT In terms of the rules of Absa Group Limited Share Incentive Trust, the maximum number of shares which may be issued or transferred and or in respect of which options may be granted to the participants shall be limited to shares representing 10% of the total number of issued shares from time to time.
This is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement and options are allocated to Absa employees according to the normal human resources talent management processes.
The options issued up to August 2005 had no performance criteria linked to them and vested in equal tranches after three, four and five years respectively.
No dividends accrue to the option holder over the vesting period.
The options expire after a period of ten years from the issuing date.
Options issued since August 2005 have performance criteria associated with them, which require headline earnings per share to exceed an agreed benchmark over a three-year period from the grant date for the options to vest.
Participants need to be in the employ of Absa at the vesting date in order to be entitled to the options.
Absa Group Limited Executive Share Award Scheme AGLESAS The ESAS is an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participants notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost options, based on the allocation price of ordinary shares.
Such an initial allocation is held in trust or in the name of the participant.
If the participant is in the employ of Absa after the three-year vesting period, the participant will receive 20% matched shares.
If the bonus award remains in the ESAS for another two years, the participant receives another 10% matched shares.
Dividend shares are paid to participants on the ordinary shares as if the shares were held from inception.
The number of dividend shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and or 10% matched shares, over the threeor five-year period.
Employees that receive a performance bonus in excess of a predetermined amount were compelled to place a set percentage of their bonus award into the ESAS.
Employees also had the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS options.
Absa Group Limited Performance Share Plan AGLPSP The Performance Share Plan PSP was implemented in 2008.
Performance shares are free Absa Group Limited shares for which no exercise price is payable and which qualify for dividends.
Absa Group Limiteds performance over a three-year period determines the final number of shares that may be released to participants.
Options remain outstanding under the following closed schemes: Incentive Share Option Plan ISOP The ISOP was open by invitation to the employees and Directors of Barclays PLC.
Options were granted at the market price at the date of grant calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
The final number of shares over which the option may be exercised is determined by reference to set performance criteria.
The number of shares under option represents the maximum possible number that may be exercised.
No awards were made under ISOP during 2009.
Woolwich Executive Share Option Plan Woolwich ESOP Options originally granted over Woolwich PLC shares at market value were exercised in 2001 or exchanged, in accordance with the proposals made under the offer to acquire the Woolwich, for options over Barclays PLC shares.
Under the rules of ESOP, the performance conditions attached to the exercise of options were disapplied on acquisition of Woolwich PLC by Barclays.
Options lapse ten years after grant.
In addition, there were no options outstanding at year end under the following closed schemes: Absa Group Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment transaction BEE The Group entered into a black economic empowerment BEE transaction with Batho Bonke Capital Proprietary Limited in July 2004.
The shares issued in terms of the transaction vested immediately.
Due to the shares issued vesting immediately and also as a result of the issue being before 1st January 2005, the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based payments were not applicable.
In the current period 49.9% of the options were repurchased from Batho Bonke Proprietary Limited at a discount to their fair value.
Batho Bonke utilised the proceeds to exercise 11,970,536 options.
The Group provided bridging finance for the remaining 24,678,764 options.
The life of these options was effectively extended for three months, effective 1st June 2009.
The modification did not result in an increase in the fair value of these options and therefore, in terms of the provisions of IFRS 2, no cost was recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the current period.
The bridging finance was redeemed on 1st September 2009 and Batho Bonke Capital Proprietary Limited exercised the balance of the options outstanding.
Absa Group Limited Share Ownership Administrative Trust AGLSOT AGLSOT enabled all Absa employees to participate in a one-off offer to purchase 200 redeemable cumulative option-holding preference shares.
Each redeemable preference share carries the option to acquire one Absa ordinary share.
Options vest after three years and lapse after five years from the date of issue.
Exercise may occur in lots of 100 only and within a price range varying from R48 to R69 3.81 to 5.48 dependent on the 30-day volume weighted trading price on the JSE Limited.
Options are redeemed by Absa on the final exercise date.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The ESOS is a long-term incentive scheme and was available by invitation to certain senior executives of the Group with grants usually made annually.
Options were issued with an exercise price equivalent to the market price at the date of the grant without any discount, calculated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, and are normally exercisable between three and ten years from that date.
No further awards are made under ESOS.
Barclays Global Investors Equity Ownership Plan BGI EOP The EOP was provided to key employees of BGI and was wound up following the disposal of BGI.
The exercise price of the options was determined by the Remuneration Committee of Barclays PLC based on the fair value of BGI as determined by an independent appraiser.
The options were granted over shares in Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Options were not exercisable until vesting, with a third of the options held generally becoming exercisable at each anniversary of grant.
The shareholder had the right to offer to sell the shares to Barclays Bank PLC 355 days following the exercise of the option.
The most recently agreed valuation was 109.45, at 30th November 2009.
No awards were made under the BGI EOP in 2009.
The scheme rules provided that in the event of a sale of the business, outstanding options vest before the disposal.
During the year the Group disposed of Barclays Global Investors.
Accordingly, the share-based payment charge has been accelerated in these financial statements.
262 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 44 Share-based payments continued At the balance sheet date the following cash-settled schemes operated within the Group: Absa Group Limited Phantom Performance Share Plan Phantom PSP The Phantom PSP is a cash-settled plan and payments made to participants in respect of their awards are in the form of cash.
The Phantom PSP shares and any associated notional dividend shares are awarded at no cost to the participants.
The amount that is ultimately paid to the participants is equal to the market value of a number of ordinary shares as determined after a three-year vesting period.
The vesting of the Phantom PSP awards will be subject to two non-market performance conditions which will be measured over a three-year period, starting on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made.
The award will vest after three years to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied.
These awards are forfeited in total if Absa performance fails to meet the minimum criteria.
Absa Group Limited Phantom Executive Share Award Scheme Phantom ESAS The Phantom ESAS is a cash-settled share-based payment arrangement, where the participants notional bonus comprises a number of restricted nil-cost options, based on the allocation price of ordinary shares.
If the participant is in the employ of the Group after the three-year vesting period, the participant will receive 20% bonus phantom shares.
If the bonus award remains in the Phantom ESAS for another two years, the participant receives an additional 10% bonus phantom shares.
Dividend phantom shares are paid to participants on the ordinary phantom shares as if the shares were held from inception.
The number of dividend phantom shares awarded is therefore calculated on the initial allocation and on the 20% and 10% bonus phantom shares, over the threeor five-year period.
Employees that receive performance bonuses in excess of a predetermined amount are compelled to place a set percentage of the bonus award in the Phantom ESAS.
Employees also have the option of utilising more of their bonus award for voluntary ESAS phantom shares.
The weighted average fair value per option granted during the year is as follows: 2009 2008 Sharesave 1.43 0.92 PSP 2.81 4.89 Sharepurchase 1.82 3.38 ISP 2.58 4.22 ESAS 1.08 4.09 AGLPSP 6.88 7.76 AGLESAS 6.82 7.17 Fair values for Sharesave and PSP are calculated at the date of grant using either a Black-Scholes model or Monte Carlo simulation.
Sharepurchase, ISP, ESAS, AGLPSP and AGLESAS are nil cost awards on which the performance conditions are substantially completed at the date of grant.
Consequently the fair value of these awards is based on the market value at that date.
As described above, the terms of the ESAS scheme require shares to be held for a set number of years from the date of vest.
The calculation of the vest date fair value of such awards includes a reduction for this post-vesting restriction.
This discount is determined by calculating how much a willing market participant would rationally pay to remove the restriction using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2009 are as follows: 2009 Sharesave PSP Weighted average share price 3.51 2.34 Weighted average exercise price 2.70 1.77 Expected volatility 45% 45% Expected option life 4 years 2 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2008 are as follows: 2008 Sharesave PSP Weighted average share price 3.11 5.45 Weighted average exercise price 2.51 2.07 Expected volatility 37% 37% Expected option life 4 years 3 years The significant weighted average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the options granted in 2007 are as follows: 2007 Sharesave PSP BGI EOP AGLSIT Weighted average share price 5.82 7.07 95.33 9.18 Weighted average exercise price 4.81 95.33 7.62 Expected volatility 25% 25% 20% 30% Expected option life 4 years 3 years 4 years 5 years www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 263 44 Share-based payments continued Expected volatility and dividend yield on the date of grant have been used as inputs into the respective valuation models for Sharesave and PSP.
The yield on UK government bonds with a commensurate life has been used to determine the risk-free discount rate of 3% for Sharesave and PSP.
Option life is estimated based upon historical data for the holding period of options between grant and exercise dates.
For the purposes of determining the expected life and number of options to vest, historical exercise patterns have been used, together with an assumption that a certain percentage of options will lapse due to leavers.
The assumed dividend yield for Barclays PLC is the average annual dividend yield on the date of grant of 2%.
Analysis of the movement in the number and weighted average exercise price of options is set out below: a a, c Sharesave Sharepurchase Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Outstanding at beginning of year acquisition date 7,100 73,152 73,152 3.16-4.55 3.40-3.89 Granted in the year 50,652 6,923 Adjustment in grants for open offer 177 Exercised released in the year 19 36,649 5.42 Less: repurchased in the year 36,503 Less: forfeited in the year 2,755 Less: expired in the year Outstanding at end of year 54,978 7,100 73,152 3.16-4.55 Of which exercisable: 73,152 3.16-4.55 Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
b Options award granted over Absa Group Limited shares.
264 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 44 Share-based payments continued b b AGLSIT AGLSOT Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
price 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 2009 2008 Outstanding at beginning of year 2,008 1,015 37 Granted in the year 1,589 2,134 1,324 1,019 Less: forfeited in the year 180 126 155 41 Outstanding at end of year 3,417 2,008 2,184 1,015 Of which exercisable: a a ISOP ESOS Number Weighted average Number Weighted average 000s ex.
d Options award granted over Barclays Global Investors UK Holdings Limited shares.
As at 31st December 2009, the total liability arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions was 13m 2008: 23m.
In accordance with the scheme rules, all options awarded vested and were exercised by the holders following the disposal of the BGI business on 1st December 2009.
The options were all exercised during December 2009.
Notes a Options award granted over Barclays PLC shares.
266 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 45 Off-balance sheet arrangements In the ordinary course of business and primarily to facilitate client transactions, the Group enters into transactions which may involve the use of off-balance sheet arrangements and special purpose entities SPEs.
These arrangements include the provision of guarantees, loan commitments, retained interests in assets which have been transferred to an unconsolidated SPE or obligations arising from the Groups involvements with such SPEs.
Guarantees The Group issues guarantees on behalf of its customers.
In the majority of cases, the Group will hold collateral against the exposure, have a right of recourse to the customer or both.
In addition, the Group issues guarantees on its own behalf.
The main types of guarantees provided are: financial guarantees given to banks and financial institutions on behalf of customers to secure loans: overdrafts: and other banking facilities, including stock borrowing indemnities and standby letters of credit.
Other guarantees provided include performance guarantees, advance payment guarantees, tender guarantees, guarantees to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs and retention guarantees.
The nominal principal amount of contingent liabilities with off-balance sheet risk is set out in Note 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments.
Loan commitments The Group enters into commitments to lend to its customers subject to certain conditions.
Such loan commitments are made either for a fixed period or are cancellable by the Group subject to notice conditions.
Information on loan commitments and similar facilities is set out in Note 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments.
Leasing The Group leases various offices, branches, other premises and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease arrangements.
With such operating lease arrangements, the asset is kept on the lessors balance sheet and the Group reports the future minimum lease payments as an expense over the lease term.
Information on leasing can be found in Note 37 Leasing.
Special purpose entities SPEs are entities that are created to accomplish a narrow and well defined objective.
There are often specific restrictions or limits around their ongoing activities.
The Groups transactions with SPEs take a number of forms, including: The provision of financing to fund asset purchases, or commitments to provide finance for future purchases.
Derivative transactions to provide investors in the SPE with a specified exposure.
The provision of liquidity or backstop facilities which may be drawn upon if the SPE experiences future funding difficulties.
Direct investment in the notes issued by SPEs.
Depending on the nature of the Groups resulting exposure, it may consolidate the SPE on to the Groups balance sheet.
The consolidation of SPEs is considered at inception, based on the arrangements in place and the assessed risk exposures at that time.
In accordance with IFRS, SPEs are consolidated when the substance of the relationship between the Group and the entity indicates control.
Potential indicators of control include, amongst others, an assessment of the Groups exposure to the risks and benefits of the SPE.
The initial consolidation analysis is revisited at a later date if: i the Group acquires additional interests in the entity: ii the contractual arrangements of the entity are amended such that the relative exposures to risks and rewards change: or iii the Group acquires control over the main operating and financial decisions of the entity.
A number of the Groups transactions have recourse only to the assets of unconsolidated SPEs.
Typically, the majority of the exposure to these assets is borne by third parties and the Groups risk is mitigated through , unwind features and other protective measures.
The business activities within the Group where SPEs are used include multi-seller conduit programmes, asset securitisations, client intermediation, credit structuring, asset realisations and fund management.
These activities are described below.
In addition, later sections provide quantative information on the Groups involvements with CDOs, SIVs SIV-Lites and conduits.
Multi-seller conduit programmes Barclays creates, administers and provides liquidity and credit enhancements to several commercial paper conduit programmes, primarily in the United States.
These conduits provide clients access to liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing them to sell consumer or trade receivables to the conduit, which then issues commercial paper to investors to fund the purchase.
The conduits have sufficient collateral, credit enhancements and liquidity support to maintain an investment grade rating for the commercial paper.
Asset securitisations The Group has assisted its customers with the formation of asset securitisations, some of which are effected through the use of SPEs.
These entities have minimal equity and rely on funding in the form of notes to purchase the assets for securitisation.
As these SPEs are created for other companies, the Group does not usually control these entities and therefore does not consolidate them.
The Group may provide financing in the form of senior notes or junior notes and may also provide derivatives to the SPE.
These transactions are included on the balance sheet.
The Group has also used SPEs to securitise part of its originated and purchased retail and commercial lending portfolios and credit card receivables.
These SPEs are usually consolidated and derecognition only occurs when the Group transfers its contractual right to receive cash flows from the financial assets, or retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to another party without material delay or reinvestment, and also transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk, prepayment risk and interest rate risk.
The carrying amount of securitised assets together with the associated liabilities are set out in Note 29. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 267 45 Off-balance sheet arrangements continued Client intermediation The Group has structured transactions as a financial intermediary to meet investor and client needs.
These transactions involve entities structured by either the Group or the client and they are used to modify cash flows of third party assets to create investments with specific risk or return profiles or to assist clients in the efficient management of other risks.
Such transactions will typically result in a derivative being shown on the balance sheet, representing the Groups exposure to the relevant asset.
The Group also invests in lessor entities specifically to acquire assets for leasing.
Client intermediation also includes arrangements to fund the purchase or construction of specific assets most common in the property industry.
Credit structuring The Group structures investments to provide specific risk profiles to investors.
This may involve the sale of credit exposures, often by way of derivatives, to an entity which subsequently funds those exposures by issuing securities.
These securities may initially be held by Barclays prior to sale outside of the Group.
Asset realisations The Group establishes SPEs to facilitate the recovery of loans in circumstances where the borrower has suffered financial loss.
To the extent that there are guarantees and commitments in relation to SPEs the details are included in Note 34 Contingent liabilities and commitments.
Collateralised debt obligations CDOs The Group has structured and underwritten CDOs.
At inception, the Group's exposure principally takes the form of a liquidity facility provided to support future funding difficulties or cash shortfalls in the vehicles.
If required by the vehicle, the facility is drawn with the amount advanced included within loans and advances on the balance sheet.
Upon an event of default or other triggering event, the Group may acquire control of a CDO and, therefore, be required to fully consolidate the vehicle for accounting purposes.
The potential for transactions to hit default triggers before the end of 2010 has been assessed and is included in the determination of 714m impairment charges and other credit provisions in relation to ABS CDO Super Senior and other credit market exposures for the year ended 31st December 2009.
The Group's exposure to ABS CDO Super Senior positions before hedging was 1,931m as at 31st December 2009, equivalent to an aggregate 50.83% decline in value on average for all investors.
This represents the Group's exposure to High Grade CDOs, stated net of write-downs and charges.
These facilities are fully drawn and included within loans and advances on the balance sheet.
Collateral The collateral underlying unconsolidated CDOs comprised 78% residential mortgage-backed securities, 3% non-residential asset-backed securities and 19% in other categories a proportion of which will be backed by residential mortgage collateral.
The remaining Weighted Average Life WAL of all collateral is 5.9 years.
The combined Net Asset Value NAV for all of the CDOs was 0.9bn.
Funding The CDOs were funded with senior unrated notes and rated notes up to AAA.
The capital structure senior to the AAA notes on cash CDOs was supported by a liquidity facility provided by the Group.
The senior portion covered by liquidity facilities is on average 88% of the capital structure.
The initial WAL of the notes in issue averaged 6.7 years.
The full contractual maturity is 38.2 years.
Interests in third party CDOs The Group has purchased securities in and entered into derivative instruments with third party CDOs.
These interests are held as trading assets or liabilities on the Group's balance sheet and measured at fair value.
The Group has not provided liquidity facilities or similar agreements to third party CDOs.
Structured investment vehicles SIVs The Group does not structure or manage SIVs.
Group exposure to third party SIVs comprised: 16m 2008: 52m of senior liquidity facilities.
Derivative exposures included on the balance sheet at their net fair value of 53m 2008: 273m.
SIV-Lites The Group has exposure to two SIV-Lite transactions.
The Group is not involved in their ongoing management.
Exposures have decreased to 461m 2008: 638m representing drawn liquidity facilities of 106m and assets designated at fair value of 355m.
268 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 45 Off-balance sheet arrangements continued Commercial paper and medium-term note conduits The Group provided 16bn in undrawn backstop liquidity facilities to its own sponsored CP conduits.
The Group fully consolidates these entities such that the underlying assets are reflected on the Group balance sheet.
These consolidated entities in turn provide facilities of 753m to third party conduits containing prime UK buy-to-let RMBS.
As at 31st December 2009, the entire facility had been drawn and is included in available for sale financial investments.
The Group provided backstop facilities to support the paper issued by four third party conduits.
These facilities totalled 287m, with underlying collateral comprising 100% auto loans.
Drawings on these facilities were 125m as at 31st December 2009 and are included within loans and advances to customers.
The Group provided backstop facilities to four third party SPEs that fund themselves with medium-term notes.
These notes are sold to investors as a series of 12-month securities and remarketed to investors annually.
If investors decline to renew their holdings at a price below a pre-agreed spread, the backstop facility requires the Group to purchase the outstanding notes at scheduled maturity.
The Group has provided facilities of 1.6bn to SPEs holding prime UK and Australian owner-occupied Residential Mortgage Back Securities RMBS assets.
As at the balance sheet date these facilities had been drawn and were included in loans and advances.
46 Financial risks Financial risk management The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
Financial instruments are fundamental to the Groups business and managing financial risks, especially credit risk, is a fundamental part of its business activity.
The Groups risk management policies and processes are designed to identify and analyse risk, to set appropriate risk appetite, limits, and controls, and to monitor the risks and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date data.
Risk management policies, models and systems are regularly reviewed to reflect changes to markets, products and best market practice.
Risk responsibilities The Board approves risk appetite and the Board Risk Committee BRC monitors the Groups risk profile against this appetite: The Chief Risk Officer, under delegated authority from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for ensuring effective risk management and control: Business Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their businesses: Business risk teams, each under the management of a Business Risk Director, are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and management of their business risk profiles for implementing appropriate controls.
These risk management teams also assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and the implementation of it across the businesses: Within Group Risk, Risk-Type Heads and their teams are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight: and Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
Oversight of risk management is exercised by the Group Risk Oversight Committee which is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer under authority delegated by the Group Finance Director.
The Group Risk Oversight Committee oversees management of the Groups risk profile, exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Group risk appetite.
The Executive Committee monitors and manages risk-adjusted performance of businesses and receives a regular update on forward risk trends and the Group Risk Profile Report.
The BRC reviews the Group risk profile, approves the Group Control Framework and approves minimum control requirements for principal risks.
The Board Audit Committee BAC considers the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework and receives quarterly reports on control issues of significance and half-yearly reports on impairment allowances and regulatory reports.
Both BRC and BAC also receive reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The proceedings of both Committees are reported to the full Board.
The Board approves the overall Group risk appetite.
The Group Risk Oversight Committee is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer and oversees the management of the Groups risk profile and all of its significant risks.
Oversight is exercised through the setting, review and challenge of the size and constitution of the profile when viewed against the Groups risk appetite.
It has delegated and apportioned responsibility for credit risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committees.
The main financial risks affecting the Group are discussed in Notes 47 to 49. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 269 47 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual obligations to the Group.
Credit risk arises mainly from commercial and consumer loans and advances, credit cards, and loan commitments arising from such lending activities, but can also arise from credit enhancement provided, such as financial guarantees, letters of credit, endorsements and acceptances.
The Group is also exposed to other credit risks arising from investments in debt securities and other exposures arising from its trading activities trading exposures including, non-equity trading portfolio assets, derivatives as well as settlement balances with market counterparties and reverse repurchase loans.
Losses arising from exposures held for trading derivatives, debt securities are accounted for as trading losses, rather than impairment charges, even though the fall in value causing the loss may be attributable to credit deterioration.
Maximum exposure to credit risk before collateral held or other credit enhancements The following table presents the maximum exposure at 31st December 2009 and 2008 to credit risk of balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments, before taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements and after allowance for impairment and netting where appropriate.
For financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount.
For financial guarantees granted, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount that Barclays would have to pay if the guarantees were to be called upon.
For loan commitments and other credit related commitments that are irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the full amount of the committed facilities.
This analysis and all subsequent analyses of credit risk include only financial assets subject to credit risk.
They exclude other financial assets, mainly equity securities held in trading portfolio or available for sale as well as non-financial assets.
The nominal value of off-balance sheet credit related instruments are also shown, where appropriate.
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been included as the Group is not exposed to credit risk on these assets.
Credit losses in these portfolios, if any, would lead to a reduction in the linked liabilities and result in no direct loss to the Group.
Whilst the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of the assets or, in the case of off-balance sheet items, the amount guaranteed, committed, accepted or endorsed, in most cases the likely exposure is far less due to collateral, credit enhancements and other actions taken to mitigate the Groups exposure.
270 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued A description of the credit risk management and measurement methodologies, the credit quality of the assets and the collateral and other credit enhancements held against them is included in the relevant sections within this Note, for each of the categories in the following table: At 31st December 2009 Reverse Loans and Debt repurchase advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total m m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 81,483 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,593 Trading portfolio: Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 9,926 Debt securities 116,594 116,594 Traded loans 2,962 2,962 Total trading portfolio 2,962 126,520 129,482 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 22,390 22,390 Debt securities 4,007 4,007 Other financial assets 557 7,757 344 8,658 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 22,947 4,007 7,757 344 35,055 Derivative financial instruments 416,815 416,815 Loans and advances to banks 41,135 41,135 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 149,099 149,099 Credit card receivables 21,889 21,889 Other personal lending 25,435 25,435 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 212,928 212,928 Finance lease receivables 10,873 10,873 Total loans and advances to customers 420,224 420,224 Available for sale financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills 5,919 5,919 Debt securities 43,888 43,888 Total available for sale financial investments 49,807 49,807 Reverse repurchase agreements 143,431 143,431 Other assets 3,476 3,476 Total on-balance sheet 487,268 180,334 416,815 151,188 86,896 1,322,501 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 375 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 42,812 Commitments 207,275 Total off-balance sheet 250,462 Total maximum exposure 1,572,963 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 271 47 Credit risk continued At 31st December 2008 Reverse Loans and Debt repurchase advances securities Derivatives agreements Others Total m m m m m m On-balance sheet: Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 30,019 Items in course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,695 Trading portfolio: Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 4,544 Debt securities 148,686 148,686 Traded loans 1,070 1,070 Total trading portfolio 1,070 153,230 154,300 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 30,057 130 30,187 Debt securities 8,628 8,628 Other financial assets 1,469 7,283 479 9,231 Total financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 31,526 8,628 7,283 609 48,046 Derivative financial instruments 984,802 984,802 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 47,707 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 139,845 139,845 Credit card receivables 22,304 22,304 Other personal lending 27,270 27,270 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 259,699 259,699 Finance lease receivables 12,697 12,697 Total loans and advances to customers 461,815 461,815 Available for sale financial investments: Treasury and other eligible bills 4,003 4,003 Debt securities 58,831 58,831 Total available for sale financial investments 62,834 62,834 Reverse repurchase agreements 130,354 130,354 Other assets 3,096 3,096 Total on-balance sheet 542,118 224,692 984,802 137,637 35,419 1,924,668 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 585 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 53,942 Commitments 260,816 Total off-balance sheet 315,343 Total maximum exposure 2,240,011 272 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued Credit risk concentrations A concentration of credit risk exists when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
The analyses of credit risk concentrations presented below are based on the location of the counterparty or customer or the industry in which they are engaged.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 275 47 Credit risk continued Loans and advances Credit risk management Governance and responsibilities The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to the heads of their businesses and also to the Chief Risk Officer.
The credit risk function provides Group-wide direction of credit risk-taking.
The teams within this function manage the resolution of all significant credit policy issues and run the Credit Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
Each business segment has an embedded credit risk management team.
These teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses.
The principal committees that review credit risk management, formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy issues are the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee, the Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Management Committee.
The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee WCRMC oversees wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks and other financial institutions.
The WCRMC monitors exposure by country, industry sector, individual large exposures and exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
The Retail Credit Risk Management Committee RCRMC oversees exposures, which comprise unsecured personal lending including small businesses, mortgages and credit cards.
The RCRMC monitors the risk profile and performance of the retail portfolios by receipt of key risk measures and indicators at an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating actions taken to address performance are appropriate and timely.
Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio composition and both an overall stock and new flow level.
The monthly Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Management Committees exercise oversight through review and challenge of the size and constitution of the portfolios when viewed against Group Risk Appetite for wholesale and retail credit risks.
They are chaired by the Wholesale and Retail Credit Risk Directors.
Credit monitoring Wholesale and corporate loans which are deemed to contain heightened levels of risk are recorded on early-warning or watch lists.
These lists are graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to the lending and its probability of default.
The lists are updated on a monthly basis and are closely monitored.
Regardless of whether they are recorded on early-warning or watch lists, all wholesale and corporate loans are subject to a full review of all facilities on, at least, an annual basis.
More frequent interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
Retail loans which tend to comprise homogeneous assets are monitored on a portfolio basis.
Credit risk measurement Barclays uses statistical modelling techniques throughout its business in its credit rating systems.
They enable a coherent approach to risk measurement across all credit exposures, retail and wholesale.
The key building blocks in the measurement system are the probability of customer default PD, exposure in the event of default EAD, and severity of loss-given-default LGD.
The models are reviewed regularly to monitor their robustness relative to actual performance and amended as necessary to optimise their effectiveness.
For wholesale and corporate lending, Barclays assesses the credit quality of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk rating.
Barclays credit rating contains 21 grades, representing the Groups best estimate of credit risk for a counterparty based on current economic conditions.
Retail customers are not all assigned internal risk ratings in this way for account management purposes, therefore their probability of default is considered.
The Group considers Credit Risk Loans defined as all customers overdue by 90 days or more, and or individually impaired or restructured and loan loss rates when assessing the credit performance of its loan portfolios, other than those held at fair value.
For the purposes of historical and business unit comparison, loan loss rates are defined as total annualised credit impairment charge excluding available for sale assets and reverse repurchase agreements divided by gross loans and advances to customers and banks at amortised cost.
Credit risk mitigation Where appropriate, the Group takes action to mitigate credit risk such as reducing amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, clients or counterparties if appropriate, using credit derivatives, securitising assets, and disposals.
Diversification to avoid unwanted credit risk concentrations is achieved through setting maximum exposure guidelines to individual counterparties.
Excesses are reported to the Board Risk Committee and the Group Risk Oversight Committee.
Mandate and scale limits are used to limit the stock of current exposures in a loan portfolio and the flow of new exposures into a loan portfolio.
Limits are typically based on the tenor and nature of the lending.
Collateral and security The Group routinely obtains collateral and security to mitigate credit risk.
The Group ensures that any collateral held is sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly reassessed.
Before attaching value to collateral, businesses holding specific, agreed classes of collateral must ensure that they are holding a correctly perfected charge.
Before reliance is placed on third party protection in the form of bank, government or corporate guarantees or credit derivative protection from financial intermediary counterparties, a credit assessment is undertaken.
Security structures and legal covenants are subject to regular review, at least annually, to ensure that they remain fit for purpose and remain consistent with accepted local market practice.
276 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued All loans and advances are categorised as either: neither past due nor individually impaired: past due but not individually impaired: or individually impaired, which includes restructured loans.
The impairment allowance includes allowances against financial assets that have been individually impaired and those subject to collective impairment.
Credit risk loans comprise loans and advances to banks and customers 90 days overdue or more and those subject to individual impairment.
The coverage ratio is calculated by reference to the total impairment allowance and the carrying value before impairment of credit risk loans.
b Financial assets subject to collective impairment allowance are included in this column if they are past due.
c Loans and advances to customers in the above table have been reanalysed between Residential mortgage loans and Other personal lending.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 277 47 Credit risk continued Credit quality of loans and advances neither past due nor individually impaired 2009 2008 Strong Satisfactory Higher risk Total Strong Satisfactory Higher risk Total m m m m m m m m Trading portfolio: Traded loans 1,366 1,290 306 2,962 759 220 91 1,070 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 15,909 3,809 2,492 22,210 25,665 2,792 725 29,182 Other financial assets 261 296 557 1,469 1,469 Loans and advances to banks 35,825 2,492 542 38,859 40,181 6,384 100 46,665 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 66,956 69,919 2,324 139,199 86,937 42,770 1,310 131,017 Credit card receivables 20,038 157 20,195 20,426 666 21,092 Other personal lending 3,417 18,108 2,271 23,796 2,975 21,750 1,160 25,885 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 119,764 70,132 9,904 199,800 141,868 94,453 10,184 246,505 Finance lease receivables 2,664 7,082 382 10,128 4,214 7,504 649 12,367 Total loans and advances 246,162 192,870 18,674 457,706 302,599 197,768 14,885 515,252 For the purposes of the analysis of credit quality, the following internal measures of credit quality have been used: Retail lending Wholesale lending Financial statements description Probability of default Probability of default Default grade Strong 0.0-0.60% 0.0-0.05%1-3 0.05-0.15% 4-5 0.15-0.30% 6-8 0.30-0.60% 9-11 Satisfactory 0.60-10.00% 0.60-2.15%12-14 2.15-11.35% 15-19 Higher risk 10.00% 11.35% 20-21 Financial statement descriptions can be summarised as follows: Strong there is a very high likelihood of the asset being recovered in full.
Satisfactory whilst there is a high likelihood that the asset will be recovered and therefore, of no cause for concern to the Group, the asset may not be collateralised, or may relate to retail facilities, such as credit card balances and unsecured loans, which have been classified as satisfactory, regardless of the fact that the output of internal grading models may have indicated a higher classification.
At the lower end of this grade there are customers that are being more carefully monitored, for example, corporate customers which are indicating some evidence of some deterioration, mortgages with a high loan to value ratio, and unsecured retail loans operating outside normal product guidelines.
Higher risk there is concern over the obligors ability to make payments when due.
However, these have not yet converted to actual delinquency.
There may also be doubts over value of collateral or security provided.
However, the borrower or counterparty is continuing to make payments when due and is expected to settle all outstanding amounts of principal and interest.
278 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued Loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired An age analysis of loans and advances that are past due but not individually impaired is set out below.
For the purposes of this analysis an asset is considered past due and included below when any payment due under strict contractual terms is received late or missed.
The amount included is the entire financial asset, not just the payment, of principal or interest or both, overdue.
The table below provides a breakdown of total financial assets past due but not individually impaired.
In general, retail and wholesale loans fall into this category for two separate reasons.
Retail loans and advances to customers may come under this category because the impairment allowance on such loans is calculated on a collective not individual basis.
This reflects the homogenous nature of the assets, which allows statistical techniques to be used, rather than individual assessment.
In contrast, some loans to wholesale and corporate customers and banks may come under this category because of instances where a payment on a loan is past due without requiring an individual impairment allowance.
For example, an individual impairment allowance will not be required when a loss is not expected due to a corporate loan being fully secured or collateralised.
As a result, it is past due but not individually impaired.
Past due Past due Past due Past due Past due Of which up to 1 1-2 2-3 3-6 6 months Credit month months months months and over Total Risk Loans m m m m m m m 2009 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 170 1 9 180 Loans and advances to banks 2,280 2,280 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 4,849 1,453 633 1,410 501 8,846 1,911 Credit card receivables 501 214 220 459 150 1,544 609 Other personal lending 369 295 417 413 681 2,175 1,094 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 5,403 292 494 866 543 7,598 1,409 Finance lease receivables 186 86 98 282 12 664 294 Total loans and advances to customers 11,308 2,340 1,862 3,430 1,887 20,827 5,317 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 13,758 2,340 1,863 3,430 1,896 23,287 5,317 2008 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Loans and advances 315 147 81 82 250 875 Loans and advances to banks 1,044 1 1,045 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 4,421 1,570 630 713 147 7,481 860 Credit card receivables 293 224 150 291 468 1,426 759 Other personal lending 219 202 273 338 242 1,274 580 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 6,229 540 847 477 214 8,307 691 Finance lease receivables 130 53 39 63 285 63 Total loans and advances to customers 11,292 2,589 1,939 1,882 1,071 18,773 2,953 Total financial assets past due but not individually impaired 12,651 2,737 2,020 1,964 1,321 20,693 2,953 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 279 47 Credit risk continued Loans and advances individually assessed as impaired An analysis of financial assets individually assessed as impaired is as follows: 2009 2008 Original Revised Original Revised carrying Impairment carrying carrying Impairment carrying amount allowance amount amount allowance amount m m m m m m Loans and advances to banks individually impaired 57 49 8 48 44 4 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 1,693 317 1,376 1,668 240 1,428 Credit card receivables 2,459 1,690 769 1,231 727 504 Other personal lending 2,372 1,531 841 1,980 1,237 743 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 10,088 3,837 6,251 7,586 2,310 5,276 Finance lease receivables 402 233 169 234 140 94 Total loans and advances individually impaired 17,071 7,657 9,414 12,747 4,698 8,049 Collective impairment allowance 3,139 1,876 Total impairment allowance 10,796 6,574 The movements on the impairment allowance during the year were as follows: Amounts At Acquisitions Unwind Exchange Amounts charged to Balance beginning and of and other written income at 31st of year disposals discount adjustments off Recoveries statement December m m m m m m m m 2009 Loans and advances to banks 51 11 10 11 61 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 321 19 59 46 82 3 391 639 Credit card receivables 1,445 415 79 28 1,009 78 1,487 2,309 Other personal lending 1,869 26 89 633 21 1,766 2,908 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 2,699 15 48 1,538 28 3,432 4,558 Finance lease receivables 189 6 3 118 10 243 321 Total loans and advances to customers 6,523 434 185 116 3,380 140 7,319 10,735 Total impairment allowance 6,574 434 185 127 3,380 150 7,330 10,796 2008 Loans and advances to banks 3 1 7 40 51 Loans and advances to customers: Residential mortgage loans 137 35 19 44 3 241 321 Credit card receivables 841 306 68 94 845 69 1,048 1,445 Other personal lending 1,368 1 32 134 525 42 881 1,869 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances 1,310 506 1,428 41 2,270 2,699 Finance lease receivables 113 37 77 12 104 189 Total loans and advances to customers 3,769 307 135 790 2,919 167 4,544 6,523 Total impairment allowance 3,772 307 135 791 2,919 174 4,584 6,574 Loan Loss Rates Loans and Gross advances Loan loans and Impairment net of Impairment Loss advances allowance impairment charge Rate m m m m basis points As at 31st December 2009 472,155 10,796 461,359 7,358 156 As at 31st December 2008 516,096 6,574 509,522 4,913 95 280 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued Renegotiated loans and advances Loans and advances are generally renegotiated either as part of an ongoing customer relationship or in response to an adverse change in the circumstances of the borrower.
In the latter case renegotiation can result in an extension of the due date of payment or repayment plans under which the Group offers a concessionary rate of interest to genuinely distressed borrowers.
This will result in the asset continuing to be overdue and will be individually impaired where the renegotiated payments of interest and principal will not recover the original carrying amount of the asset.
In other cases, renegotiation will lead to a new agreement, which is treated as a new loan.
Collateral and other credit enhancements held Financial assets that are past due or individually assessed as impaired may be partially or fully collateralised or subject to other forms of credit enhancement.
Assets in these categories subject to collateralisation are mainly corporate loans, residential mortgage loans and finance lease receivables.
Credit card receivables and other personal lending are generally unsecured although in some instances a charge over the borrowers property of other assets may be sought.
Corporate loans Security is usually taken in the form of a fixed charge over the borrowers property or a floating charge over the assets of the borrower.
Loan covenants may be put in place to safeguard the Groups financial position.
If the exposure is sufficiently large, either individually or at the portfolio level, credit protection in the form of guarantees, credit derivatives or insurance may be taken out.
For these and other reasons collateral given is only accurately valued on origination of the loan or in the course of enforcement actions and as a result it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of the collateral held.
Residential mortgage loans These are secured by a fixed charge over the property.
A description and the estimated fair value of collateral held in respect of residential mortgage loans that are past due or individually assessed as impaired is as follows: Nature of assets 2009 2008 Fair value Fair value m m Residential property 9,628 7,264 Collateral included in the above table reflects the Groups interest in the property in the event of default.
That held in the form of charges against residential property in the UK is restricted to the outstanding loan balance.
In other territories, where the Group is not obliged to return any sale proceeds to the mortgagee, the full estimated fair value has been included.
Finance lease receivables The net investment in the lease is secured through retention of legal title to the leased assets.
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained The carrying value of assets held by the Group as at 31st December 2009 as a result of the enforcement of collateral was as follows: Nature of assets 2009 2008 Carrying Carrying amount amount m m Residential property 71 171 Commercial and industrial property 66 2 Other credit enhancements 248 61 Total 385 234 Any properties repossessed are made available for sale in an orderly and timely fashion, with any proceeds realised being used to reduce or repay the outstanding loan.
For business customers, in some circumstances, where excess funds are available after repayment in full of the outstanding loan, they are offered to any other, lower ranked, secured lenders.
Any additional funds are returned to the customer.
Barclays does not, as a rule, occupy repossessed properties for its business use.
The Group does not use assets obtained in its operations.
Assets obtained are normally sold, generally at auction, or realised in an orderly manner for the maximum benefit of the Group, the borrower and the borrowers other creditors in accordance with the relevant insolvency regulations.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 281 47 Credit risk continued Debt securities Trading portfolio assets, financial assets designated at fair value and available for sale assets are measured on a fair value basis.
The fair value will reflect, among other things, the credit risk of the issuer.
Most listed and some unlisted securities are rated by external rating agencies.
The Group mainly uses external credit ratings provided by Standard & Poors or Moodys.
Where such ratings are not available or are not current, the Group will use its own internal ratings for the securities.
Collateral is not generally obtained directly from the issuers of debt securities.
Certain debt securities may be collateralised by specifically identified assets that would be obtainable in the event of default.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured on a fair value basis.
The credit quality of the Groups derivative assets according to the credit quality of the counterparty at 31st December 2009 and 2008 was as follows: 2009 2008 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment Band investment Band grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total m m m m m m m m Derivatives 399,534 15,565 1,716 416,815 939,071 42,266 3,465 984,802 % 95.9 3.7 0.4 100.0 95.3 4.3 0.4 100.0 Credit risk from derivatives is mitigated where possible through netting agreements whereby derivative assets and liabilities with the same counterparty can be offset.
Group policy requires all netting arrangements to be legally documented.
The ISDA Master Agreement is the Groups preferred agreement for documenting OTC derivatives.
It provides the contractual framework within which dealing activities across a full range of OTC products are conducted and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out netting across all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement if either party defaults or other predetermined events occur.
Collateral is obtained against derivative assets, depending on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and or nature of the transaction.
Any collateral taken in respect of OTC trading exposures will be subject to a haircut which is negotiated at the time of signing the collateral agreement.
A haircut is the valuation percentage applicable to each type of collateral and will be largely based on liquidity and price volatility of the underlying security.
The collateral obtained for derivatives is either cash, direct debt obligation government G14 bonds denominated in the domestic currency of the issuing country, debt issued by supranationals or letters of credit issued by an institution with a long-term unsecured debt rating of A A3 or better.
Where the Group has ISDA master agreements, the collateral document will be the ISDA Credit Support Annex CSA.
The collateral document must give Barclays the power to realise any collateral placed with it in the event of the failure of the counterparty, and to place further collateral when requested or in the event of insolvency, administration or similar processes, as well as in the case of early termination.
Derivative assets and liabilities would be 374bn 2008: 917bn lower than reported if netting were permitted for assets and liabilities with the same counterparty or for which the Group holds cash collateral.
282 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 47 Credit risk continued Reverse repurchase agreements Reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing arrangements are collateralised loans typically of short maturities.
The loans are fully collateralised with highly liquid securities legally transferred to the Group.
The level of collateral is monitored daily and further collateral called when required.
2009 2008 AAA to BBBAAA to BBBinvestment Band investment Band grade BB to B below Total grade BB to B below Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account: Other financial assets 4,749 1,955 1,053 7,757 3,882 3,401 7,283 Reverse repurchase agreements 136,366 6,674 391 143,431 122,188 6,101 2,065 130,354 Total reverse repurchase agreements 141,115 8,629 1,444 151,188 126,070 9,502 2,065 137,637 % 93.3 5.7 1.0 100.0 91.6 6.9 1.5 100.0 No reverse repurchase agreements held by the Group at 31st December 2009 or 2008 were individually impaired, however during the year, the Group wrote off 43m of reverse repurchase agreements 2008: 124m.
Other credit risk assets The Groups other assets that are subject to credit risk are cash with central banks of 81,483m 2008: 30,019m, items in course of collection from other Banks 1,593m 2008: 1,695m, other financial assets 3,476m 2008: 3,096m.
Cash and balances at central banks Substantially all balances are held with central banks.
There is limited credit risk in relation to balances at central banks.
Items in the course of collection from other banks There is limited credit risk in relation to items in the course of collection through the clearing system from other banks.
Other financial assets Other financial assets comprise 3,476m 2008: 3,096m of other assets and 344m 2008 609m of assets held at fair value.
Off-balance sheet The Group applies fundamentally the same risk management policies for off-balance sheet risks as it does for its on-balance sheet risks.
In the case of commitments to lend, customers and counterparties will be subject to the same credit management policies as for loans and advances.
Collateral may be sought depending on the strength of the counterparty and the nature of the transaction.
Credit market exposures Barclays Capitals credit market exposures primarily relate to US residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and leveraged finance businesses that have been significantly impacted by the continued deterioration in the global credit markets.
The exposures include both significant positions subject to fair value movements in the profit and loss account and positions that are classified as loans and advances and available for sale.
The exposures are set out by asset class below: As at As at 31.12.09 31.12.08 m m US residential mortgages ABS CDO Super Senior 1,931 3,104 Other US sub-prime and Alt-A 1,392 7,729 Monoline wrapped US RMBS 6 1,639 Commercial mortgages Commercial real estate loans and properties 7,734 11,578 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 471 735 Monoline wrapped CMBS 30 1,854 Other credit market exposures a Leveraged finance 5,507 9,048 SIVs, SIV-Lites and CDPCs 553 1,113 Monoline wrapped CLO and other 2,126 4,939 Total exposures 19,750 41,739 Loan to Protium 7,859 On 16th September 2009, Barclays Capital sold assets of 7,454m, including 5,087m in credit market assets, to Protium Finance LP Protium, a newly established fund.
As part of the transaction, Barclays extended a 7,669m 10-year loan to Protium Finance LP.
At 31st December 2009, this loan had a carrying value of 7,859m including accrued interest.
Note a This is a change in presentation from 31st December 2008, which reflected certain loan facilities originated post 1st July 2007. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 283 48 Market risk Market risk management Market risk is the risk that the Groups earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
The majority of market risk exposure resides in Barclays Capital.
Barclays is also exposed to market risk through interest rate risk on its non-trading activities and through the pension fund.
Organisation and structure The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading activities.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk Control Framework and, under delegated authority from the Chief Risk Officer, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Chief Risk Officer, the Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the appropriate Business Risk Directors.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk management team, is accountable for all market risks associated with its activities.
Each business is responsible for the identification, measurement, management, control and reporting of market risk as outlined in Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
Oversight and support is provided to the business by the Market Risk Director, assisted by the Group Market Risk team.
The Market Risk Committee reviews, approves, and makes recommendations concerning the market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and utilisation.
The Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk Director.
Attendees include the Chief Risk Officer, respective business risk managers and Group Market Risk.
Traded market risk Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients or with the market.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities are managed together.
Risk measurement and control The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market risk include Daily Value at Risk DVaR, Expected Shortfall, average of the three worst hypothetical losses from the DVaR simulation 3W, Global Asset Class stress testing and Global Scenario stress testing.
DVaR is an estimate of the potential loss arising from unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
Barclays Capital uses the historical simulation methodology with a two-year unweighted historical period at the 95% confidence level.
The historical simulation calculation can be split into three parts: Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
Sum all hypothetical profit or losses for day one across all positions, giving one total profit or loss.
Repeat for all other days in the two-year history.
DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two years of daily hypothetical total profit or loss.
The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory capital for the trading book.
The approval covers general market risk in interest rate, foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and issuer specific risk for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit products.
DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and consequently the model is regularly assessed.
The main approach employed is the technique known as back-testing which counts the number of days when a loss as defined by the FSA, exceeds the corresponding DVaR estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green, amber or red.
A green model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for models that have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month period.
For Barclays Capitals trading book, green model status was maintained for 2009 and 2008.
Expected Shortfall is the average of all hypothetical losses from the historical simulation beyond DVaR.
To improve the control framework, formal monitoring of 3W average of the three worst observations from the DVaR historical simulation was started in the first half of 2009.
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
Global Asset Class stress testing has been designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange rates.
They are based on past stress moves in respective asset class prices and rates.
Global Scenario stress testing is based on hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet plausible stress type moves, under which profitability is seriously challenged.
Market Risk is controlled through the use of limits where appropriate on the above risk measures.
Limits are set at the total Barclays Capital level, risk factor level such as interest rate risk, and business line level.
Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place.
284 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 48 Market risk continued Analysis of traded market risk exposures Barclays Capital's market risk exposure, as measured by average total DVaR, increased by 45% to 77m 2008: 53m.
The rise was mainly due to volatility considerations, increased interest rate and credit spread exposure, and the Lehman Brothers North America businesses acquisition.
Volatility impacted average DVaR because 2008s extreme volatility impacted DVaR throughout 2009 but only impacted 2008 DVaR in the last four months of 2008.
Expected shortfall and 3W averaged 121m and 209m respectively representing increases of 51m 73% and 93m 80% compared to 2008.
The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, Expected Shortfall and 3W were calculated as below.
12 months to 12 months to 31st December 2009 31st December 2008 a a a a Average High Low Average High Low m m m m m m DVaR 95% Interest rate risk 44 83 23 29 48 15 Credit spread risk 58 102 35 31 72 15 Commodity risk 14 20 11 18 25 13 Equity risk 13 27 5 921 5 Foreign exchange risk 815 3 613 2 a Diversification effect 60 n a n a 40 n a n a Total DVaR 77 119 50 53 95 36 Expected shortfall 121 188 88 70 146 41 3W 209 301 148 116 282 61 Non-traded interest rate risk Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and wholesale non-traded banking products and services.
Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded risk.
This is achieved by transferring risk from the business to a local treasury or Group Treasury, who in turn hedge the net exposure with the external market.
Limits exist to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
The majority of non-trading interest rate market exposures are within Global Retail and Commercial Banking, and Group Treasury.
Trading activity is not permitted outside Barclays Capital.
Risk measurement and control The risk in each business is measured and controlled using both an income metric Annual Earnings at Risk and a present value metric Daily Value at Risk or stress testing.
In addition scenario stress analysis is carried out by the business and reviewed by senior management and business-level asset and liability committees, when required.
Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated as the difference between the estimated income using the current yield curve and the lowest estimated income following a 100 basis points increase or decrease in interest rates, subject to a minimum interest rate of 0%.
Balances are adjusted for an assumed behavioural profile.
This includes the treatment of non-maturity deposits.
Daily Value at Risk and stress testing is calculated using a Barclays Capital consistent approach.
Both these metrics are calculated by each respective business area with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
Risk exposures are monitored by respective business risk managers with oversight provided by Group Market Risk.
The main business limits are approved by Market Risk Committee.
Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate sensitivity limits are also in place where appropriate.
To further improve the market risk control framework, Group Market Risk initiated an ongoing programme of conformance visits to non-traded Treasury operations.
These visits review both the current market risk profile and potential market risk developments, as well as verifying conformance with Barclays policies and standards as detailed in the market risk control framework.
Note a The high and low DVaR figures reported for each category did not necessarily occur on the same day as the high and low DVaR reported as a whole.
Consequently, a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 285 48 Market risk continued Analysis of net interest income sensitivity The tables below show the pre-tax net interest income sensitivity for the non-trading financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st December 2009.
The sensitivity has been measured using AEaR methodology as described above.
The benchmark interest rate for each currency is set as at 31st December 2009.
The figures include the effect of hedging instruments but exclude exposures held or issued by Barclays Capital as these are measured and managed using DVaR.
Net interest income sensitivity AEaR by currency 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis points points points points 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m GBP 30 360 3 273 USD 43 14 25 7 EUR 34 34 30 ZAR 29 27 13 13 Others 1 4 8 Total 19 369 43 257 As percentage of net interest income 0.16% 3.10% 0.37% 2.24% Non-traded interest rate risk, as measured by AEaR, was 369m in 2009, an increase of 112m compared to 2008.
This estimate takes into account the rates in place as at 31st December 2009.
The increase mainly reflects the reduced spread generated on retail and commercial banking liabilities in the lower interest rate environment.
If the interest rate hedges had not been in place then the AEaR risk for 2009 would have been 704m 2008: 670m.
DVaR is also used to control market risk in Global Retail and Commercial Banking Western Europe and in Group Treasury.
The indicative average DVaRs for 2009 are 1.4m 2008: 1.3m for Western Europe and 1.0m 2008: 0.6m for Group Treasury.
Analysis of equity sensitivity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis points points points points 2009 2009 2008 2008 m m m m Net interest income 19 369 43 257 Taxation effects on the above 486 633 Effect on profit for the year 15 283 37 224 As percentage of net profit after tax 0.15% 2.75% 0.70% 4.24% Effect on profit for the year per above 15 283 37 224 Available for sale reserve 527 527 806 806 Cash flow hedge reserve 929 957 473 474 Taxation effects on the above 341 347 166 166 Effect on equity 1,130 854 1,150 890 As percentage of equity 1.93% 1.46% 2.43% 1.88% 286 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 48 Market risk continued Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to two sources of foreign exchange risk.
a Transactional foreign currency exposure Transactional foreign exchange exposures represent exposure on banking assets and liabilities, denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the transacting entity.
The Groups risk management policies prevent the holding of significant open positions in foreign currencies outside the trading portfolio managed by Barclays Capital which is monitored through DVaR.
There were no material net transactional foreign currency exposures outside the trading portfolio at either 31st December 2009 or 2008.
Due to the low level of non-trading exposures no reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates would have a material effect on either the Groups profit or movements in equity for the year ended 31st December 2009 or 2008. b Translational foreign exchange exposure The Groups translational foreign currency exposure arises from both its capital resources including investments in subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, non-controlling interests, deductions from capital and debt capital instruments and risk weighted assets RWAs being denominated in foreign currencies.
Changes in foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value of foreign currency denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign exchange rate movements.
The Groups capital ratio hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of the capital ratios caused by foreign exchange rate movements.
To achieve this, the Group aims to maintain the ratio of foreign currency Core Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total Capital resources to foreign currency RWAs the same as the Groups capital ratios.
The Groups foreign currency capital resources include investments in subsidiaries and branches, intangible assets, non-controlling interests, deductions from capital and debt capital instruments.
The Groups investments in foreign currency subsidiaries and branches create capital resources denominated in foreign currencies.
Changes in the Sterling value of the investments due to foreign currency movements are captured in the currency translation reserve, resulting in a movement in Core Tier 1 capital.
During 2009, structural currency exposures net of hedging instruments increased from 6.4bn to 12.5bn primarily as a result of US Dollar hedging decisions taken in accordance with the Groups capital ratio hedge strategy for foreign exchange rate movements.
To create foreign currency Tier 1 and Total Capital resources additional to the Core Tier 1 capital resources, the Group issues, where possible, debt capital in non sterling currencies.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt capital from Barclays Bank PLC, but can also be achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies.
The carrying value of the Groups foreign currency net investments in subsidiaries and branches and the foreign currency borrowings and derivatives used to hedge them as at 31st December 2009 were as follows: Functional currency of the operation involved Structural Foreign Borrowings Derivatives currency Remaining currency which hedge which hedge exposures structural net the net the net pre economic Economic currency  hedges hedges exposures m m m m m m At 31st December 2009 US Dollar 16,677 3,205 13,472 6,056 7,416 Euro 6,772 3,418 3,354 2,902 452 Rand 4,055 1,542 2,513 189 2,324 Japanese Yen 4,436 3,484 940 12 12 Swiss Franc 2,840 2,734 92 14 14 Other 2,983 677 2,306 2,306 Total 37,763 12,841 3,251 21,671 9,147 12,524 At 31st December 2008 US Dollar 14,577 6,019 8,558 6,720 1,838 Euro 6,336 2,922 3,414 3,125 289 Rand 3,725 1,306 2,419 164 2,255 Japanese Yen 5,009 801 4,212 4 4 Swiss Franc 3,042 2,936 101 5 5 Other 2,940 880 2,060 2,060 Total 35,629 12,678 6,499 16,452 10,009 6,443 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 287 48 Market risk continued The economic hedges represent the US Dollar and Euro Preference Shares and Reserve Capital Instruments in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS, and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
The impact of a change in the exchange rate between Sterling and any of the major currencies would be: A higher or lower Sterling equivalent value of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
This includes a higher or lower currency translation reserve within equity, representing the retranslation of non-Sterling subsidiaries, branches and associated undertakings net of the impact of foreign exchange rate changes on derivatives and borrowings designated as hedges of net investments.
A higher or lower profit after tax, arising from changes in the exchange rates used to translate items in the consolidated income statement.
A higher or lower value of available for sale investments denominated in foreign currencies, impacting the available for sale reserve.
49 Liquidity risk Liquidity management Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when they fall due as a result of a sudden, and potentially protracted, increase in net cash outflows.
Such outflows would deplete available cash resources for client lending, trading activities, investments and deposits.
In extreme circumstances lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending commitments.
The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all banking operations and can be affected by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events.
Organisation and structure Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance and control process that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
Businesses assist Barclays Treasury in policy formation and limit setting by providing relevant and expert input for their local markets and customers.
Execution of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is carried out at country level within agreed policies, controls and limits, with the Country Treasurer providing reports directly to Barclays Treasury to evidence conformance with the agreed risk profile.
Liquidity risk is a standing agenda item at Country and Cluster Asset and Liability Committees and on a consolidated basis is reported to the Groups Treasury Committee.
The objective of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is to ensure that the funding profile of individual businesses and the Group as a whole is appropriate to underlying market conditions and the profile of our business in each given country.
Liquidity risk limits and controls are flexed to achieve that profile and are based on regular qualitative and quantitative assessments of conditions under both normal and stressed conditions.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
Liquidity limits reflect both local regulatory requirements as well as the behavioural characteristics of their balance sheets.
Breaches of limits are reported to Treasury Committee together with details of the requirements to return to compliance.
Liquidity risk framework Barclays has a comprehensive Liquidity Risk Management Framework the Liquidity Framework for managing the Groups liquidity risk.
The objective of the Liquidity Framework is for the Group to have sufficient liquidity to continue to operate for at least the minimum period specified by the FSA in the event that the wholesale funding markets are neither open to Barclays nor to the market as a whole.
Many of the stress tests currently applied under the Liquidity Framework will also be applied under the FSAs new regime, although the precise calibration may differ in Barclays final Individual Liquidity Guidance to be set by the FSA.
The framework considers a range of possible wholesale and retail factors leading to loss of financing including: maturing of wholesale liabilities: loss of secured financing and widened haircuts on remaining book: retail and commercial outflows from savings and deposit accounts: drawdown of loans and commitments: potential impact of a two-notch ratings downgrade: and withdrawal of initial margin amounts by counterparties.
These stressed scenarios are used to assess the appropriate level for the Groups liquidity pool, which comprises unencumbered assets and cash.
Barclays regularly uses these assets to access secured funding markets, thereby testing the liquidity assumptions underlying pool composition.
The Group does not presume the availability of central bank facilities to monetise the liquidity pool in any of the stress scenarios under the Liquidity Framework.
Liquidity pool The Group liquidity pool as at 31st December 2009 was 127bn gross 31st December 2008: 43bn and comprised the following cash and unencumbered assets: Composition of Group liquidity pool Cash and Government deposits Government and Other with central guaranteed supranational available banks bonds bonds liquidity Total bn bn bn bn bn As at 31st December 2009 81 3 31 12 127 a As at 31st December 2008 30 2 11 43 The cost of maintaining the liquidity pool is a function of the source of funding for the buffer and the reinvestment spread.
Note a Previously disclosed as Barclays Capital only.
288 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 49 Liquidity risk continued Term financing Raising term funding is important in meeting the risk appetite of the Barclays Liquidity Framework.
Barclays has continued to increase the term of issued liabilities during 2009 by issuing: 15bn equivalent of public senior term funding 1.8bn equivalent of public covered bonds 21bn equivalent of structured notes The Group has 4bn of publicly issued debt and 11bn of structured notes maturing in 2010.
Intraday liquidity The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific intraday commitments would have significant consequences, such as a visible market disruption.
The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has access to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have to clearing and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and payment system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
In practice the Group maintains a significant buffer of surplus intraday liquidity to ensure that payments are made on a timely basis.
The Group actively engages in payment system development to help ensure that new payment systems are robust.
Day to day funding Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings, secured borrowings and funding mismatches.
These ensure that on any day and over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing requirement.
These requirements include replenishment of funds as they mature or are borrowed by customers.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
Diversification of liquidity sources Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In addition, to avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings and the Groups financial position.
Wholesale depositor split by counterparty type Barclays Capital Other Other central financial Banks Corporates Governments banks institutions Total %%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 36 15 2 16 31 100 As at 31st December 2008 32 15 11 9 33 100 Wholesale depositor split by geography Barclays Capital Rest of US UK Other EU Japan Africa World Total %%%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 9 25 23 3 16 24 100 As at 31st December 2008 13 22 16 9 17 23 100 Funding structure Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office Functions are structured to be self-funded through customer deposits and Barclays equity and other long-term capital.
The Barclays Capital and Absa businesses are funded through the wholesale secured and unsecured funding markets.
The ratio of customer loans to customer deposits and long-term funding has improved to 81% at 31st December 2009, from 93% at 31st December 2008. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 289 49 Liquidity risk continued Global retail and commercial banking, Barclays Wealth and Head Office functions An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa: mainly current accounts and savings accounts.
Although contractually current accounts are repayable on demand and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs.
Group policy is to ensure that the assets of the retail, wealth and corporate bank, together with Head Office functions, on a global basis, do not exceed customer deposits and subordinated funding so that these businesses place no reliance on wholesale markets.
The exception to this policy is Absa, which has a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structure of the South African financial sector.
In order to assess liquidity risk, the balance sheet is modelled to reflect behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities and is managed to maintain a cash surplus.
The maturity profile, excluding Absa, resulting from this behavioural modelling is set out below.
This shows that there is a funding surplus of 94.5bn, and that there are expected outflows of 10.2bn within one year from asset repayments being less than liability attrition.
For subsequent years the expected repayments on assets are larger than the roll off of liabilities resulting in cash inflows.
Maturities of net liabilities are, therefore, behaviourally expected to occur after five years.
a Behavioural maturity profile of assets and liabilities Cash inflow outflow Over Over Over Over 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years Not but not but not but not but not Funding more than more than more than more than more than Over surplus 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 5 years bn bn bn bn bn bn bn As at 31st December 2009 94.5 10.2 17.8 21.2 7.8 1.8 132.9 Barclays Capital Barclays Capital manages its liquidity to be primarily funded through wholesale sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential cash outflows in a stressed environment are covered.
73% of the inventory is funded on a secured basis 31st December 2008: 50%.
Additionally, much of the short-term funding is invested in highly liquid assets and central bank cash and therefore contributes towards the Group liquidity pool.
Barclays Capital undertakes secured funding in the repo markets based on liquidity characteristics.
Limits are in place for each security asset class reflecting liquidity in the cash and financing markets for these assets.
The percentage of secured funding using each asset class as collateral is set out below: Secured funding by asset class Government Agency MBS ABS Corporate Equity Other %%%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 59 7 7 6 10 8 3 As at 31st December 2008 49 9 11 9 15 4 3 Unsecured wholesale funding for the Group excluding Absa is managed by Barclays Capital within specific term limits.
Excluding short-term deposits b that are included within the Groups liquidity pool, the term of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life improving from at least 14 months at 31st December 2008 to at least 26 months at 31st December 2009. a Contractual maturity of unsecured liabilities Not more Not more Not more Not more Not more than than than than than Over Net of assets available from the Group liquidity pool 1 month 2 months 3 months 6 months 1 year 1 year %%%%%% As at 31st December 2009 19 81 The extension of the term of the wholesale financing has meant that, as at 31st December 2009, 81% of net wholesale funding had remaining maturity of greater than one year and, as at the same date, there was no net wholesale unsecured refinancing required within six months.
Notes a In accordance with IFRS 7, prior year figures have not been provided as these measures have not previously been reported on a comparable basis.
b The 31st December 2008 average unsecured liability term has been restated to at least 14 months to reflect refinements in the underlying calculation.
290 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 49 Liquidity risk continued Contractual maturity of financial assets and liabilities Details of contractual maturities for assets and liabilities form an important source of information for the management of liquidity risk.
Such information is used amongst other things as the basis for modelling a behavioural balance sheet, for input into the liquidity framework, as discussed above.
The table below provides detail on the contractual maturity of all financial instruments and other assets and liabilities.
Derivatives other than those designated in a hedging relationship and trading portfolio assets and liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Liquidity risk on these items is not managed on the basis of contractual maturity since they are not held for settlement according to such maturity and will frequently be settled before contractual maturity at fair value.
Derivatives designated in a hedging relationship are included according to their contractual maturity.
Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have been included in Other assets and Other liabilities as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them: any request for funds from creditors would be met by simultaneously liquidating or transferring the related investment.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 291 49 Liquidity risk continued At 31st December 2008 Over three Over Over Over Over months six months one year three years five years Not more but not but not but not but not but not On than three more than more than more than more than more than Over demand months six months one year three years five years ten years ten years Total m m m m m m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 29,774 245 30,019 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,619 76 1,695 Trading portfolio assets 185,637 185,637 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 661 13,861 1,648 5,861 5,420 6,738 4,159 16,194 54,542 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 981,996 981,996 designated for risk management 381 91 542 505 336 419 532 2,806 Loans and advances to banks 4,882 35,690 505 1,892 1,887 1,854 52 945 47,707 Loans and advances to customers 51,155 87,624 12,447 21,976 60,927 44,982 57,409 125,295 461,815 Available for sale financial investments 132 11,539 5,129 13,461 10,266 6,660 9,779 8,010 64,976 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 29 107,415 8,947 2,582 10,124 1,019 238 130,354 Other financial assets 2,459 637 3,096 Total financial assets 1,255,885 259,290 28,767 46,314 89,766 61,589 72,056 150,976 1,964,643 Other assets 88,337 Total assets 2,052,980 Liabilities Deposits from other banks 10,850 94,083 6,040 1,273 1,585 461 433 185 114,910 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,633 2 1,635 Customer accounts 195,728 112,582 9,389 10,099 2,451 1,555 1,395 2,306 335,505 Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 1,043 16,573 10,630 5,115 12,229 12,041 11,825 7,436 76,892 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 964,071 964,071 designated for risk management 222 141 1,345 1,197 108 781 207 4,001 Debt securities in issue 2,567 79,600 10,049 17,197 23,355 9,856 2,528 4,415 149,567 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 69 176,169 3,409 2,067 245 267 59 182,285 Subordinated liabilities 260 49 281 1,345 999 10,176 16,732 29,842 Other financial liabilities 4,573 1,572 6,145 Total financial liabilities 1,235,435 484,064 39,707 37,377 43,979 25,287 27,197 31,281 1,924,327 Other liabilities 81,242 Total liabilities 2,005,569 Cumulative liquidity gap 20,450 204,324 215,264 206,327 160,540 124,238 79,379 40,316 47,411 Expected maturity dates do not differ significantly from the contract dates, except for: Trading Portfolio Assets and Liabilities and derivative financial instruments, which may not be held to maturity as part of the Groups trading strategies.
For these instruments, which are mostly held by Barclays Capital, liquidity and repricing risk is managed through the Daily Value at Risk DVaR methodology.
Retail deposits, which are included within customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a contractual basis.
In practice, these instruments form a stable base for the Groups operations and liquidity needs because of the broad base of customers both numerically and by depositor type.
Financial assets designated at fair value held in respect of linked liabilities, which are managed with the associated liabilities.
292 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 49 Liquidity risk continued Contractual maturity of financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis The table below presents the cash flows payable by the Group under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of all financial liabilities i. e nominal values, whereas the Group manages the inherent liquidity risk based on discounted expected cash inflows.
Derivative financial instruments held for trading and trading portfolio liabilities are included in the on demand column at their fair value.
Over one year but On Within less than Over demand one year five years five years Total m m m m m At 31st December 2009 Deposits from other banks 3,861 70,645 1,607 773 76,886 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,373 93 1,466 Customer accounts 205,868 106,991 6,898 5,488 325,245 Trading portfolio liabilities 51,252 51,252 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 1,219 31,030 35,733 34,206 102,188 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 402,019 402,019 designated for risk management 311 627 998 1,936 Debt securities in issue 64 82,215 46,055 22,243 150,577 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 502 197,864 450 37 198,853 Subordinated liabilities 2,101 6,295 26,842 35,238 Other financial liabilities 4,959 1,135 6,094 Total financial liabilities 666,158 496,209 98,800 90,587 1,351,754 Off-balance sheet items Loan commitments 127,540 74,111 4,181 861 206,693 Other commitments 386 384 19 789 Total off-balance sheet items 127,926 74,495 4,200 861 207,482 Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 794,084 570,704 103,000 91,448 1,559,236 At 31st December 2008 Deposits from other banks 10,850 101,537 2,224 671 115,282 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,633 2 1,635 Customer accounts 195,728 132,927 5,249 5,807 339,711 Trading portfolio liabilities 59,474 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: held on own account 1,043 33,860 28,300 30,427 93,630 Derivative financial instruments: held for trading 964,071 964,071 designated for risk management 1,809 1,671 1,206 4,686 Debt securities in issue 2,567 108,955 34,510 11,853 157,885 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 69 181,895 547 24 182,535 a Subordinated liabilities 1,273 5,114 28,726 35,113 Other financial liabilities 4,573 1,572 6,145 Total financial liabilities 1,235,435 566,831 79,187 78,714 1,960,167 Off-balance sheet items Loan commitments 222,801 30,502 5,799 917 260,019 Other commitments 493 318 340 1,151 Total off-balance sheet items 223,294 30,820 6,139 917 261,170 Total financial liabilities and off-balance sheet items 1,458,729 597,651 85,326 79,631 2,221,337 Financial liabilities designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts have been excluded from this analysis as the Group is not exposed to liquidity risk arising from them.
Any request for funds from investors would be met simultaneously from the linked assets.
The balances in the above table do not agree directly to the balances in the consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates all cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, related to both principal as well as those associated with all future coupon payments.
The principal due under perpetual subordinated liability instruments has been included in the over five years category.
Further interest payments have not been included on this amount, which according to their strict contractual terms, could carry on indefinitely.
Note a Subordinated liabilities maturity has been reanalysed to reflect the date on which the counterparty can require repayment as opposed to the date of first call.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 293 50 Fair value of financial instruments The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable willing parties.
Comparison of carrying amounts and fair values The following table summarises the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities presented on the Groups balance sheet, and their fair values differentiating between financial assets and liabilities subsequently measured at fair value and those subsequently measured at amortised cost: 2009 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Notes m m m m Financial assets: Cash and balances at central banks a 81,483 81,483 30,019 30,019 Items in the course of collection from other banks a 1,593 1,593 1,695 1,695 Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills b 9,926 9,926 4,544 4,544 Debt securities b 116,594 116,594 148,686 148,686 Equity securities b 19,602 19,602 30,535 30,535 Traded loans b 2,962 2,962 1,070 1,070 Commodities b 2,260 2,260 802 802 Financial assets designated at fair value: held in respect of linked liabilities under investment contracts b 1,257 1,257 66,657 66,657 held under own account: Equity securities b 6,256 6,256 6,496 6,496 Loans and advances b 22,390 22,390 30,187 30,187 Debt securities b 4,007 4,007 8,628 8,628 Other financial assets designated at fair value b 8,658 8,658 9,231 9,231 Derivative financial instruments b 416,815 416,815 984,802 984,802 Loans and advances to banks c 41,135 41,135 47,707 47,594 Loans and advances to customers Residential mortgage loans c 149,099 142,726 139,845 138,373 Credit card receivables c 21,889 21,889 22,304 22,312 Other personal lending c 25,435 25,430 27,270 26,496 Wholesale and corporate loans and advances c 212,928 207,648 259,699 247,798 Finance lease receivables c 10,873 10,898 12,697 12,697 Available for sale financial instruments Treasury and other eligible bills b 5,919 5,919 4,003 4,003 Debt securities b 43,888 43,888 58,831 58,831 Equity securities b 6,676 6,676 2,142 2,142 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed c 143,431 142,524 130,354 129,296 Financial liabilities: Deposits from banks d 76,446 76,457 114,910 114,912 Items in the course of collection due to other banks a 1,466 1,466 1,635 1,635 Customer accounts: Current and demand accounts d 100,710 100,710 82,515 82,515 Savings accounts d 81,188 81,188 76,008 76,008 Other time deposits d 140,531 140,544 176,982 176,966 Trading portfolio liabilities: Treasury and other eligible bills b 381 381 79 79 Debt securities b 44,327 44,327 44,309 44,309 Equity securities b 6,468 6,468 14,919 14,919 Commodities b 76 76 167 167 Financial liabilities designated at fair value: Held on own account b 86,202 86,202 76,892 76,892 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts b 1,679 1,679 69,183 69,183 Derivative financial instruments b 403,416 403,416 968,072 968,072 Debt securities in issue d 135,902 135,405 149,567 148,736 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent d 198,781 198,781 182,285 182,285 Subordinated liabilities d 25,816 25,299 29,842 22,944 294 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Notes a Fair value approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these financial assets and liabilities.
b The carrying value of financial instruments subsequently measured at fair value including those held for trading, designated at fair value, derivatives and available for sale is determined in accordance with accounting policy as noted on pages 195 and196 and further description and analysis of these fair values are set out below.
c The carrying value of financial assets subsequently measured at amortised cost including loans and advances, and other lending such as reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed is determined in accordance with the accounting policy as noted on page 196.
In many cases the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short-term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently.
In other cases, fair value is determined using discounted cash flows, applying either market derived interest rates or, where the counterparty is a bank, rates currently offered by other financial institutions for placings with similar characteristics.
Alternatively, fair value can be determined by applying an average of available regional and industry segmental credit spreads to the loan portfolio, taking the contractual maturity of the loan facilities into consideration.
d The carrying value of financial liabilities subsequently measured at amortised cost including customer accounts and other deposits such as repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent, debt securities in issue, subordinated liabilities is determined in accordance with the accounting policy as noted on page 196.
In many cases, the fair value disclosed approximates the carrying value because the instruments are short-term in nature or have interest rates that reprice frequently such as customer accounts and other deposits and short-term debt securities.
Fair values of other debt securities in issue are based on quoted prices where available, or where these are unavailable, are estimated using a valuation model.
Fair values for dated and undated convertible and non convertible loan capital are based on quoted market rates for the issue concerned or similar issues with similar terms and conditions.
Valuation inputs During the year, the Group adopted the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
This requires an entity to classify its financial assets and liabilities held at fair value according to a hierarchy that reflects the significance of observable market inputs.
The classification of these instruments is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are defined below.
Quoted market prices Level 1 Financial instruments, the valuation of which are determined by reference to unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets where the quoted price is readily available, and the price represents actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
This category includes highly liquid government bonds, short dated US agency securities, active listed equities and actively exchange-traded derivatives.
Valuation technique using observable inputs Level 2 Financial instruments that have been valued using inputs other than quoted prices as described for level 1 but which are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
This category includes most investment grade and liquid high yield bonds: asset backed securities: long dated US agency securities: certain government bonds, less liquid listed equities: bank, corporate, and municipal obligations: certain OTC derivatives: certain convertible bonds: certificates of deposit and commercial paper: certain collateralised debt obligations CDOs cash and synthetic underlyings : collateralised loan obligations CLOs : commodities based derivatives: credit derivatives, certain credit default swaps CDSs : most fund units: certain loans: foreign exchange spot and forward transactions: and certain issued notes.
Valuation technique using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Financial instruments, the valuation of which incorporate significant inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Unobservable inputs are those not readily available in an active market due to market illiquidity or complexity of the product.
These inputs are generally determined based on observable inputs of a similar nature, historic observations on the level of the input or analytical techniques.
This category includes certain corporate debt securities: highly distressed debt: private equity investments: commercial real estate loans: certain OTC derivatives requiring complex and unobservable inputs such as correlations and long dated volatilities : certain convertible bonds: some CDOs cash and synthetic underlyings : certain credit default swaps: derivative exposures to Monoline insurers: fund units: certain asset backed securities: certain issued notes: certain collateralised loan obligations CLOs and certain loans.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 295 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued The following table shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are recognised and measured at fair value and analysed by level within the fair value hierarchy.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Valuation technique using Quoted Significant market  prices inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 31st December 2009 Trading portfolio assets 76,256 69,010 6,078 151,344 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 5,766 24,845 10,700 41,311 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 1,209 48 1,257 Derivative financial assets 3,163 401,451 12,201 416,815 Available for sale assets 19,919 35,287 1,277 56,483 Total assets 106,313 530,641 30,256 667,210 Trading portfolio liabilities 42,238 8,936 78 51,252 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 82,374 3,828 86,202 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 109 1,570 1,679 Derivative financial liabilities 2,386 391,916 9,114 403,416 Total liabilities 44,733 484,796 13,020 542,549 31st December 2008 Trading portfolio assets 72,120 98,892 14,625 185,637 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 5,129 32,340 17,073 54,542 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 33,554 32,495 608 66,657 Derivative financial assets 5,548 956,348 22,906 984,802 Available for sale assets 14,391 47,448 3,137 64,976 Total assets 130,742 1,167,523 58,349 1,356,614 Trading portfolio liabilities 42,777 16,439 258 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 23 73,698 3,171 76,892 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 32,640 35,935 608 69,183 Derivative financial liabilities 3,516 949,143 15,413 968,072 Total liabilities 78,956 1,075,215 19,450 1,173,621 The table above has been compiled using the new definitions required by IFRS 7 revised and, as a result, the classifications of assets and liabilities are not directly comparable to the Groups previously published tables of fair value measurement.
The following table shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are recognised and measured at fair value disaggregated by valuation techniques and by product type.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value by product type At 31st December 2009 Assets Liabilities Valuation technique using Valuation technique using Significant Significant Quoted Observable unobservable Quoted Observable unobservable market prices inputs inputs market prices inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 m m m m m m Commercial real estate loans 7,170 Asset backed products 34,779 5,840 6,165 2,334 Other credit products 1 47,202 2,020 47,904 2,827 Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers 2,027 Non-asset backed debt instruments 72,578 66,885 3,127 35,760 73,371 3,202 Equity products 28,053 11,772 1,536 8,788 13,737 1,922 Private equity 73 176 1,978 Funds and fund-linked products 3,856 5,387 1,241 2,049 FX products 24,885 761 25,159 379 Interest rate products 176 288,718 2,357 275,684 1,775 Commodity products 1,414 31,562 748 76 37,091 581 Other 162 19,275 1,451 109 3,636 Total 106,313 530,641 30,256 44,733 484,796 13,020 296 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Level 3 financial assets and liabilities by balance sheet classification and product type As at 31st December 2009 Non-derivative assets Non-derivative liabilities Derivatives Financial Financial Net Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial a assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments m m m m m m Commercial real estate loans 7,170 Asset backed products 1,840 423 205 5 63 1,106 Other credit products 92 595 304 Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers 2,027 Non-asset backed debt instruments 2,461 438 166 73 3,081 14 Equity products 190 157 733 Private equity 104 1,237 637 Funds and fund-linked products 1,128 8 105 FX products 382 Interest rate products 64 25 543 Commodity products 12 4 64 215 Other 355 1,256 3 163 Total 6,078 10,700 1,277 78 3,828 3,087 Level 3 Movement Analysis The following table summarises the movements in the level 3 balance during the year ended 31st December 2009.
The table shows gains and losses and includes amounts for all financial assets and liabilities transferred to level 3 during the year.
The table does not reflect gains and losses for level 3 financial assets and liabilities that were transferred out during the year.
Transfers have been reflected as if they had taken place at the beginning of the year.
Analysis of movement in level 3 financial assets and liabilities For the period ended 31st December 2009 Financial Financial Net Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial a assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments Total m m m m m m m As at 1st January 2009 14,625 17,681 3,137 258 3,779 7,493 38,899 Purchases 2,021 700 459 70 313 2,334 5,131 Sales 7,018 4,875 9 172 690 3,548 14,588 Issues 1,343 1,718 3,061 Settlements 410 804 347 763 100 898 Total gains and losses in the period Recognised in the income statement trading income 2,290 3,356 27 1,574 3,516 7,561 other income 434 131 565 Total gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income 103 103 Transfers in transfers out 850 1,788 1,729 51 1,420 2,142 18 As at 31st December 2009 6,078 10,700 1,277 78 3,828 3,087 17,236 The following table discloses the gains and losses recognised in the period arising on level 3 financial assets and liabilities held as at 31st December 2009.
Gains and losses recognised during the period on level 3 financial assets and liabilities held As at 31st December 2009 Financial Financial Net Trading assets Trading liabilities derivative portfolio designated Available for portfolio designated financial assets at fair value sale assets liabilities at fair value instruments Total m m m m m m m Total gains and losses held as at 31st December 2009 Recognised in the income statement trading income 736 3,034 8 269 2,817 6,848 other income 452 140 592 Total gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income 65 65 Total 736 3,486 205 8 269 2,817 7,505 Note a The derivative financial instruments in the tables above are represented on a net basis of 3,087m.
On a gross basis derivative financial assets are 12,201m, derivative financial liabilities are 9,114m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 297 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued The significant movements in the level 3 positions during the year ended 31st December 2009 are explained below: Purchases of 5.1bn were primarily composed of 1.7bn of asset backed products, 1.5bn of credit derivatives and 0.6bn of equity products.
Sales of 14.6bn include the disposal of 7.5bn of assets backed products and Monoline exposures through the Protium transaction.
The Crescent debt restructuring, disclosed in Note 40, resulted in the sale of 1.0bn of commercial real estate loans and there were additional sales of 3.8bn asset backed products and 0.6bn Monoline exposures during the period.
Issuances of 3.1bn were driven by 1.3bn of new credit-linked notes and equity, credit and commodity derivatives of 1.7bn.
Losses in Trading Income of 7.6bn were primarily attributable to the 4.4bn of writedowns on the credit market exposures summarised in Note 47, along with writedowns on other asset backed products, funds and other Monoline insurers.
These were offset by gains on interest rate and commodity products.
Losses in Other Income of 0.6bn were driven by the writedown and impairment of commercial real estate loans.
Transfers into level 3 were largely due to the lack of observable valuation inputs for certain securities as well as curves becoming unobservable for certain derivative products.
Transfers out of level 3 were principally due to unobservable valuation inputs being deemed insignificant to the overall valuation of certain instruments particularly on investment grade asset backed products.
There were no significant transfers between level 1 and level 2.
Valuation techniques Valuations based on observable inputs include financial instruments such as swaps and forwards which are valued using market standar d pricing techniques: and options that are commonly traded in markets where all the inputs to the market standard pricing models are observable.
Valuation models are reviewed at least annually for model performance and calibration.
Current year valuation methodologies were consistent with the prior year unless otherwise noted below.
These methodologies are commonly used by market participants.
The main products whose valuation includes unobservable inputs are described below.
Commercial real estate loans This category includes lending on a range of commercial property types including retail, hotels, office and development properties.
The valuations are considered unobservable due to the bespoke nature of the instruments and the high level of volatility in the commercial real estate market at present.
Fair value is calculated using a risk adjusted spread based methodology performed on a loan by loan basis with consideration of characteristics such as property type, geographic location, yields, credit quality and property performance reviews.
The valuation inputs are reviewed with reference to CMBX and CMBS bond indices.
Initial spreads are sourced from market quoted origination spreads by property type and classified into Loan-to-Value LTV buckets which are adjusted for internal credit rating and subordination of the loans.
The internal credit ratings used in the valuation model are subject to a monthly review process.
The model is calibrated monthly based on external quotes of new origination property type spreads and the latest internal credit ratings.
The methodology used differs to the prior period in that internal credit ratings, additional risk factors and property performance reviews are now incorporated.
The changes were made to take advantage of data that has become available and to enhance the assessment of credit risk.
Asset backed products These are debt and derivative products that are linked to the cash flows of a pool of referenced assets.
This category includes asset backed loans: CDOs cash underlyings : CLOs: asset backed credit derivatives: asset and mortgage backed securities.
Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for non-investment grade ABS: non-agency residential mortgage backed securities RMBS and asset backed credit derivatives.
The valuations are determined using industry standard cash flow models that calculate fair value based on loss projections, prepayment, recovery and discount rates.
These parameters are determined by reference to underlying collateral performance, independent research, ABX indices, broker quotes, observable trades on similar securities and third party pricing sources.
The determination of parameter levels takes account of a range of factors such as deal vintage, underlying asset composition historical losses: borrower characteristics: various loan attributes such as loan-to-value and debt-to-income ratios and geographic concentration, credit ratings original and current, home price changes and interest rates.
298 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Other credit products These products are linked to the credit spread of a referenced entity, index or basket of referenced entities.
This category includes synthetic CDOs: single name and index CDS and Nth to default basket swaps.
Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for certain synthetic CDOs and CDS with illiquid reference assets.
Synthetic CDOs are valued using a model that calculates fair value based on observable and unobservable parameters including credit spreads, recovery rates, correlations and interest rates and is calibrated daily.
For index and bespoke synthetic CDOs with unobservable inputs, correlation is set with reference to index tranche market.
CDS with illiquid reference assets are valued using an industry standard hazard-type model that calculates fair value of the credit protection using interest rates, credit spreads and recovery rates of the underlying issuers.
Interest rates are observable and sourced from liquid interest rate instruments.
Credit spreads are unobservable and are determined with reference to recent transactions or bond spreads from observable issuances of the same issuer or other similar obligors as a proxy.
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers These products comprise securities, principally CLOs, on which default protection has been purchased.
Credit spreads of the counterparty providing protection are unobservable.
The derivative positions are valued with reference to the price of the underlying security.
As the security and derivative are hedged, the net present value of the derivative increases as the net present value of the security decreases.
The derivative valuation is then adjusted to reflect the credit quality of the counterparty.
Non-asset backed debt instruments These are government bonds: US agency bonds: corporate bonds: commercial paper: certificates of deposit: convertible bonds: notes and other non-asset backed bonds.
Within this population, valuation inputs are unobservable for certain convertible bonds, corporate bonds and issued notes.
Convertible bonds are valued using prices observed through broker sources, market data services and trading activity.
Prices are validated against liquid external sources.
Where liquid external sources are not available, fair value is determined using a spread to the equity conversion value or the value of the bond without the additional equity conversion.
The spread level is determined with reference to similar proxy assets.
Positions are valued on a daily basis.
Corporate bonds are valued on a price basis or using spreads over risk free interest rate curves built from liquid instruments.
Where unobservable, bond spreads are determined by reference to either issuances or alternatively CDS spreads of the same issuer are used as proxy inputs to obtain discounted cash flows and accordingly the value of the bond.
In the absence of observable bond or CDS spreads of the respective issuer, similar reference assets or sector averages are applied as a proxy.
Fixed and floating rate notes issued, in certain emerging markets, are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows.
These proprietary models calculate fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable funding or credit spreads.
The interest rates are derived from broker and bank notes rates.
Funding spreads up to five years are sourced from negotiable commercial deposit rates in the market as a proxy.
Funding spreads greater than five years are determined by applying linear extrapolation.
Equity products This category includes listed equities: exchange traded derivatives: OTC equity derivatives: preference shares and contracts for difference.
Within this population, valuation inputs for certain OTC equity derivatives are unobservable.
OTC equity derivatives valuation are determined using industry standard models.
The models calculate fair value based on input parameters such as stock prices, dividends, volatilities, interest rates, equity repo curves and, for multi-asset products, correlations.
In general, input parameters are deemed observable up to liquid maturities which are determined separately for each parameter and underlying instrument.
Unobservable model inputs are set by referencing liquid market instruments and applying extrapolation techniques to match the risk profile of the trading portfolio.
These are validated against consensus market data services for the same or similar underlying instrument.
Models are calibrated daily based on liquid market instrument prices.
Private equity Private equity investments are valued in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
This requires the use of a number of individual pricing benchmarks such as the prices of recent transactions in the same or similar instruments, discounted cash flow analysis, and comparison with the earnings multiples of listed comparative companies.
Unobservable inputs include earnings estimates, multiples of comparative companies, marketability discounts and discount rates.
Model inputs are based on market conditions at the reporting date.
The valuation of unquoted equity instruments is subjective by nature.
However, the relevant methodologies are commonly applied by other market participants and have been consistently applied over time.
Full valuations are performed bi-annually, with the portfolio reviewed on a monthly basis for material events that might impact upon fair value.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 299 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Fund and fund-linked products This category includes holdings in hedge funds: funds of funds: and fund derivatives.
Fund derivatives are derivatives whose underlyings include mutual funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios.
They are valued using underlying fund prices, yield curves and other available market information.
In general fund holdings are valued based on the latest available valuation received from the fund administrator.
Funds are deemed unobservable where the fund is either suspended, in wind-down, has a redemption restriction that severely affects liquidity, or where the latest Net Asset Value NAV from the fund administrators is more than three months old.
In the case of illiquid fund holdings the valuation will take account of all available information in relation to the underlying fund or collection of funds and may be adjusted relative to the performance of relevant index benchmarks.
Prices are marked based on available valuation data and any adjustments are reviewed on a monthly basis.
FX products These products are derivatives linked to the foreign exchange market.
This category includes Forward contracts, FX swaps and FX options.
Exotic derivatives are valued using industry standard and proprietary models.
Fair value is based on input parameters that include FX rates, interest rates, FX volatilities, interest rate volatilities, FX interest rate correlations and other model parameters.
These are validated against consensus market data services on a monthly basis.
Interest rate products These are products with a payoff linked to interest rates for example Libor London interbank offer rate or inflation rates and indices.
This category includes interest rate and inflation swaps: swaptions: caps: floors: inflation options: Bank of England base rate derivatives and other exotic interest rate derivatives.
Inflation structured and property index-linked products are valued using an industry standard model.
The model calculates fair value based on observable and unobservable parameters such as inflation index levels, volatilities and correlations sourced from trading information, broker data and historical analysis.
The assumptions and inputs applied reflect observable parameters such as yield curves, interpolation adjustments for the seasonal nature of inflation and volatility surfaces.
The most significant unobservable input is correlation between inflation indices.
The suitability of the models employed is reviewed on an annual basis.
Bank of England base rate derivatives are valued using standard discounted cash flows techniques.
Bank of England forward base rates are used as inputs into the valuation model.
These forward base rates are constructed from the base rate yield curve set from market data up to five years.
For maturities greater than five years, spreads to observable proxies are applied.
The base rate yield curve used is updated daily.
Commodity products These products are exchange traded and OTC derivatives based on an underlying commodity such as metals, oil and oil related, power and natural gas.
Within this population, valuation inputs of certain commodity swaps and options are unobservable.
Valuation inputs of certain commodity swaps and options are determined using models incorporating discounting of cash flows, closed form Black models and Monte-Carlo simulation.
The models calculate fair value based on inputs such as forward curves, volatility surfaces and tenor correlation.
Unobservable inputs are set with reference to similar observable products or by applying extrapolation techniques from the observable market.
As markets close at different times, curves are constructed using a spread to the primary market benchmark to ensure that all curves are valued using the dominant market base price.
The frequency and method used to calibrate the model is based on an assessment of observable option and swap prices.
Other This category is primarily made up of fixed rate loans, which are valued using models that discount expected future cash flows.
These models calculate the fair value based on observable interest rates and unobservable funding or credit spreads.
Unobservable funding or credit spreads are determined by applying linear extrapolation of observable spreads.
Fair value adjustments The main adjustments to model or system balances to arrive at a fair value are described below: Bid-Offer valuation adjustments Portfolios are valued to reflect the most advantageous market price to which Barclays has immediate access.
For assets and liabilities where the firm is not a market maker, mid prices are adjusted to bid and offer prices respectively.
The bid-offer adjustment factors reflect the expected close out strategy and, for derivatives, that they are managed on a portfolio basis.
The methodology for determining the bid-offer adjustment for a derivative portfolio will generally involve netting between long and short positions and the bucketing of risk by strike and term in accordance with hedging strategy.
Bid-offer levels are derived from market sources, such as broker data, and are reviewed periodically.
For those assets and liabilities where the firm is a market maker which is the case for certain equity, bond and vanilla derivative markets, since the bid-offer spread does not represent a transaction cost, mid prices are used.
300 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Model valuation adjustments New models used for valuing the firms positions are reviewed under the firms Model Validation Policy.
This assesses the assumptions used in modelling and recommends any model fair value adjustments.
Such adjustments take account of any model limitations which may include additional model factors such as volatility skew or uncertainties such as prepayment rates.
These adjustments calibrate the carrying value to fair value.
The magnitude of the valuation adjustment is dependant on the size of portfolio, complexity of the model, whether the model is market standard and to what extent it incorporates all known risk factors.
Models and model value adjustment recommendations are subject to an annual review process.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments Credit Valuation Adjustments CVAs and Debit valuation adjustments DVAs are incorporated into derivative valuations to reflect the impact on the fair value of counterparty risk and Barclays own credit quality.
These adjustments are modelled for OTC derivatives across all asset classes.
Probability of Default PD and Loss Given Default LGD are applied to expected exposures at a counterparty level to arrive at a CVA and DVA adjustment.
Monoline credit valuation adjustments Expected exposure is calculated by simulating default losses on the underlying assets, calibrated to market observable parameters and forward looking market research.
This exposure is then adjusted for any spread between prices derived from observable proxies and expected exposure based on the PD or regulatory intervention.
The PD used to calculate the CVA is derived from external ratings cross referenced to internal default grades and is based on internal simulations of creditfactor indices by region and industry designations, calibrated to historical time-series and forecast on the basis of current values.
The LGD used to calculate the CVA is a function of available historical data, the monolines credit quality and risk concentration.
Other credit and debit valuation adjustments CVAs and DVAs for non Monoline exposures are calculated using Monte-Carlo simulation to generate an expected exposure profile.
The expected exposure is calculated at a counterparty level after netting and collateral are applied.
For counterparties with an observable credit market, the PD and LGD are derived from single name credit default swap prices.
For all other counterparties, PDs are derived from a combination of industry curves: indices: and loan note pricing taking into account geographic factors, internal credit ratings, loss assumptions and ratings agency data.
Where the curve is unobservable and the CVA is significant to the overall value of the underlying derivative, the full value of the derivative and its associated credit valuation adjustment has been deemed unobservable.
CVAs are not incorporated into the fair value of certain counterparties where the market does not apply a credit charge.
The categories of counterparties excluded are as follows: Strongly collateralised counterparties this is any counterparty with a collateral agreement with minimum weekly calls and the collateral threshold plus minimum transfer amount below a defined level: Certain highly-rated sovereigns, supra-nationals and government agencies: and Liquidity providers when trading on the interbank market with certain collateralised market making counterparties no counterparty spreads are applied.
Where counterparty credit quality and exposure to that counterparty are linked, wrong way risk may arise.
In these instances, wrong way risk suggests that exposure to the counterparty is likely to increase as counterparty credit quality deteriorates.
Exposure to wrong way risk is limited via internal governance processes and deal pricing.
Own credit adjustments The carrying amount of issued notes that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option is adjusted to reflect the effect of changes in own credit spreads.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
For funded instruments such as issued notes, credit spreads on Barclays issued bonds represent the most appropriate basis for this adjustment.
However, from 30th September 2007 to 30th June 2009, Barclays credit default swap spreads were used to calculate the carrying amount of issued notes, since there were insufficient observable own credit spreads through secondary trading prices in issued bonds.
From 1st July 2009, the carrying amount of issued notes has been calculated using credit spreads derived from secondary trading in Barclays issued bonds.
At 31st December 2009, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of 61.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes 31st December 2008: 54.5bn.
Barclays credit spreads improved during 2009, leading to a loss of 1,820m 2008: gain 1,663m from the fair value of changes in own credit.
If Barclays had calculated the carrying amount of issued notes using credit default swap spreads at 31st December 2009, the fair value of changes in own credit would have been a loss of 2,448m in the year.
Barclays Capital also uses credit default swap spreads to determine the impact of Barclays own credit quality on the fair value of derivative liabilities.
At 31st December 2009, cumulative adjustments of 307m 31st December 2008: 1,176m were netted against derivative liabilities.
The impact of these adjustments in both periods was more than offset by the impact of the credit valuation adjustments to reflect counterparty creditworthiness that were netted against derivative assets.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 301 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Unrecognised gains as a result of the use of valuation models using unobservable inputs The amount that has yet to be recognised in income that relates to the difference between the transaction price the fair value at initial recognition and the amount that would have arisen had valuation models using unobservable inputs been used on initial recognition, less amounts subsequently recognised, was as follows: Year ended 31st December 2009 2008 m m Opening balance 128 154 Additions 39 77 Amortisation and releases 68 103 Closing balance 99 128 Sensitivity analysis of valuations using unobservable inputs At 31st December 2009 Fair value Favourable changes Unfavourable change Total Total Profit Profit assets liabilities and loss Equity and loss Equity Product type m m m m m m Commercial real estate loans 7,170 429 437 Asset backed products 5,840 2,334 175 4 175 4 Other credit products 2,020 2,827 171 152 Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers 2,027 336 532 Non-asset backed debt instruments 3,127 3,202 145 2 141 2 Equity products 1,536 1,922 28 15 28 15 Private equity 1,978 267 73 339 95 Funds and fund-linked products 1,241 100 100 FX products 761 379 33 33 Interest rate products 2,357 1,775 78 78 Commodity products 748 581 36 36 Other 1,451 52 52 Total 30,256 13,020 1,850 94 2,103 116 As part of risk management processes, an analysis is performed on unobservable parameters to generate a range of reasonably possible alternative valuations.
The effect of stressing the unobservable assumptions to a range of reasonably possible alternatives would be to increase the fair values by up to 1.9bn 2008: 2.4bn or to decrease the fair values by up to 2.2bn 2008: 3bn with substantially all the potential effect impacting profit or loss rather than equity.
The metric has not been offset for the effect of hedging.
The stresses applied take account of the nature of valuation techniques used, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historic data.
In all cases, an assessment is made to determine the suitability of available data.
The sensitivity methodologies are based on a range, standard deviation or spread data of a reliable reference source or a scenario based on alternative market views.
The level of shift or scenarios applied is considered for each product and varied according to the quality of the data and variability of underlying market.
The approach adopted in determining these sensitivities has evolved during the year, in the context of changing market conditions.
Commercial real estate loans The unobservable inputs include but are not limited to market quoted origination spreads, internal credit ratings and subordination of the loans.
The sensitivity is determined by applying a - 6% shift for each underlying position based on the largest upward and downward price movement of observable published indices of a similar nature in the preceding 12-month period.
Asset backed products For non-agency RMBS and non-investment grade ABS, sensitivity is calculated on the price movement on observable ABX.
For asset backed credit derivatives, sensitivity is calculated on price movements within the ABX.
Sensitivity is based on the average of the largest price movement upward and the largest price movement downward in the preceding 12-month period.
302 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 50 Fair value of financial instruments continued Other credit products Sensitivity of synthetic CDOs is determined by using valuations based on different assumptions for recovery and tranche mapping.
The sensitivity represents the impact of the application of different modelling assumptions.
These model assumptions change the distribution of losses on the trades.
The sensitivity of valuations of the illiquid CDS portfolio is determined by applying a - 0.5% stress to the DV01 for each underlying reference asset.
The stress is based upon the average bid offer spreads observed in the market for similar CDS.
Derivative exposure to Monoline insurers The main unobservable input in the valuation of the derivative exposure to Monoline insurers is the credit quality of the Monoline insurers.
The approach to determine downside sensitivity is dependent on the credit quality of the Monoline insurer.
For higher quality Monoline insurers a shift in internal credit ratings has been applied.
For lower quality Monoline insurers the impact has been assessed by a shift to default and recovery rates.
The recovery rate was set to 10% and risk of default to 100%.
To assess the upside risk to Monoline insurers, the underlying assets were flexed by 3%, based on the average monthly move for the LCDX index over the preceding 12-month period.
Non-asset backed debt instruments The sensitivity on convertible bonds, is determined by applying a - 1% shift for each underlying value.
The shift is based upon the bid offer spreads observed in the market for similar bonds.
The sensitivity on corporate bonds portfolio is determined by applying a - 1% shift for each underlying value.
The shift is based upon the average bid offer spreads observed in the market for similar bonds.
The sensitivity for fixed and floating rate notes is calculated using a - 1% shift in credit spreads.
Equity products The sensitivity is estimated based on the statistical spread of consensus data services either directly or through proxies.
The estimate has been calculated using 1 standard deviation of the consensus returns.
Private equity The relevant valuation models are sensitive to each of the key assumptions, such as projected future earnings, comparator multiples, marketability discounts and discount rates.
Valuation sensitivity is estimated by flexing such assumptions to reasonable alternative levels and determining the impact to the outcome of the valuation, for example comparator multiples for a range of similar companies.
Fund and fund-linked products The sensitivity measure is based on observing the largest monthly move in the main hedge fund index HFRX over the prior two-year period.
FX products The sensitivity is based on the statistical spread of consensus data services.
The estimate has been calculated using consensus data service statistical standard deviation and this represents 2 standard deviations of the mid correlations.
Interest rate products For inflation products, the sensitivity is calculated by stressing the correlation parameters.
The sensitivity was determined by applying a - 8% shift to the correlation risks and this was based on the historical observation of correlation levels over the preceeding month.
For base rate derivatives, the sensitivity is based on bid offer spreads of base rates swaps.
The sensitivity was determined by applying a - 0.125% shift to the PV01 for each underlying position.
Commodity products The sensitivity is determined by applying values based on historic variability over two years.
The estimate has been calculated using data for shortdated forward volatility curves to generate a best and worst case likely scenario.
The sensitivities are based on a 25% probability of occurrence over two years, and taking 50% of the difference between the best and worst multiplied by exposure to the relevant risk factor.
Other The sensitivity for fixed rate loans is calculated using a - 1% shift in credit spreads.
Valuation control framework The independent price verification process is a key control in ensuring the material accuracy of valuation.
Price verification procedures cover all fair value positions.
Data sources that are most representative of the market and readily available are used.
The data sources are assessed against the following characteristics: independence: reliability: consistency between sources and evidence that it represents executable levels.
This control process assists in the determination of whether market levels represent forced transactions which should not be considered in the assessment of fair value.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 303 51 Reclassification of financial assets held for trading On 25th November 2009 the Group reclassified certain financial assets, originally classified as held for trading that were deemed to be no longer held for trading purposes, and thus considered as loans and receivables.
The reclassified assets comprised Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs against which the Group held credit protection with monoline counterparties rated below investment grade.
As at the 25th November, the assets had a carrying value of 8,027m.
The effective interest rates on these assets ranged from 0.50% to 2.99% with undiscounted interest and principal cash flows of 8,769m.
In the period prior to reclassification, 1,500m of fair value gains were recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Since the 25th November, paydowns and maturities of 26m along with foreign exchange movements on the assets and accrued interest resulted in a carrying value as at 31st December 2009 of 8,099m.
The carrying value of the securities reclassified during 2008 into loans and receivables has decreased from 3,986m to 1,279m primarily as a result of paydowns and maturities of the underlying securities of 2,733m.
No impairment has been identified on these securities.
The following table provides a summary of the assets reclassified from held for trading to loans and advances.
As at 31st December As at 31st December 2009 2008 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Trading assets reclassified to loans and receivables Reclassification 25th November 2009 8,099 7,994 Reclassification 16th December 2008 1,279 1,335 3,986 3,984 Total financial assets reclassified to loans and receivables 9,378 9,329 3,986 3,984 If the reclassifications had not been made, the Group's income statement for 2009 would have included net losses on the reclassified trading assets of 49m 2008: 2m.
After reclassification, the reclassified financial assets contributed 192m 2008: 4m to interest income.
52 Capital Management Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering both regulatory and economic capital.
The capital management strategy is to continue to maximise shareholder value through optimising both the level and mix of capital resources.
Decisions on the allocation of capital resources are conducted as part of the strategic planning review.
The Groups capital management objectives are to: maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Banks requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised: maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk appetite and economic capital requirements: support the Groups credit rating: ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements: and allocate capital to businesses to support the Groups strategic objectives, including optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
External regulatory capital requirements The Group is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Financial Services Authority FSA, following guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Basel Committee and implemented in the UK via European Union Directives.
Under Basel II, effective from 1st January 2008, the Group has approval by the FSA to use the advanced approaches to credit and operational risk management.
Pillar 1 capital requirements are generated using the Groups risk models.
Under Pillar 2 of Basel II, the Group is subject to an overall regulatory capital requirement based on individual capital guidance ICG received from the FSA.
The ICG imposes additional capital requirements in excess of Pillar 1 minimum capital.
304 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 52 Capital Management continued Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority, the Japanese FSA and the Monetary Authority of Singapore : Africa, where the Groups operations are headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa The South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board FSB and the United States of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual countries meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local management manages compliance with subsidiary entity minimum regulatory capital requirements with reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees and to Treasury Committee, as required.
Regulatory capital The table below provides details of the regulatory capital resources managed by the Group.
Basel ll Basel II 2009 2008 m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,637 37,250 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 14,703 22,333 Total deductions 880 856 Total net capital resources 63,460 58,727 53 Segmental reporting The following section analyses the Groups performance by business.
For management reporting purposes during 2009, Barclays was organised into the following business groupings: Global Retail and Commercial Banking UK Retail Banking Barclays Commercial Bank Barclaycard GRCB Western Europe GRCB Emerging Markets GRCB Absa Investment Banking and Investment Management Barclays Capital Barclays Global Investors Barclays Wealth Head Office Functions and Other Operations UK Retail Banking UK Retail Banking comprises Personal Customers, Home Finance, Local Business, Consumer Lending and Barclays Financial Planning.
This cluster of businesses aims to build broader and deeper relationships with its Personal and Local Business customers through providing a wide range of products and financial services.
Personal Customers and Home Finance provide access to current account and savings products, Woolwich branded mortgages and general insurance.
Consumer Lending provides unsecured loan and protection products and Barclays Financial Planning provides investment advice and products.
Local Business provides banking services, including money transmission, to small businesses.
Barclays Commercial Bank Barclays Commercial Bank provides banking services to organisations with an annual turnover of more than 1m.
Customers are served via a network of relationship and industry sector specialists, which provides solutions constructed from a comprehensive suite of banking products, support, expertise and services, including specialist asset financing and leasing facilities.
Customers are also offered access to the products and expertise of other businesses in the Group, particularly Barclays Capital, Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 305 53 Segmental reporting continued Barclaycard Barclaycard is a multi-brand credit card and consumer lending business which also processes card payments for retailers and merchants and issues credit and charge cards to corporate customers and the UK Government.
It is one of Europes leading credit card businesses and has an increasing presence in the United States and South Africa.
In the UK, Barclaycard comprises Barclaycard UK Cards, Barclaycard Partnerships, Barclays Partner Finance and FirstPlus.
Outside the UK, Barclaycard provides credit cards in the United States, Germany, South Africa through management of the Absa credit card portfolio and in the Scandinavian region, where Barclaycard operates through Entercard, a joint venture with Swedbank.
Barclaycard works closely with other parts of the Group, including UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank and GRCB Western Europe and GRCB Emerging Markets, to leverage their distribution capabilities.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Western Europe GRCB Western Europe encompasses Barclays Global Retail and Commercial Banking, as well as Barclaycard operations, in Spain, Italy, Portugal, France and Russia.
GRCB Western Europe serves customers through a variety of distribution channels.
GRCB Western Europe provides a variety of products including retail mortgages, current and deposit accounts, commercial lending, unsecured lending, credit cards, investments, and insurance serving the needs of Barclays retail, mass affluent, and corporate customers.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Emerging Markets GRCB Emerging Markets serves retail and commercial banking customers in Botswana, Egypt, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mauritius, Pakistan, Seychelles, Tanzania, Uganda, the UAE, Zambia, Indonesia and Zimbabwe.
Through a network of more than 683 distribution points and 1,023 ATMs, we provide 3.7 million customers and clients with a full range of products and services.
This includes current accounts, savings, investments, mortgages and secured and unsecured lending.
Global Retail and Commercial Banking Absa GRCB Absa represents Barclays consolidation of Absa, excluding Absa Capital and Absa Card and Absa Wealth which is included as part of Barclays Capital, Barclaycard and Barclays Wealth respectively.
Absa Group Limited is a South African financial services organisation serving personal, commercial and corporate customers predominantly in South Africa.
GRCB Absa serves retail customers through a variety of distribution channels and offers a full range of banking services, including current and deposit accounts, mortgages, instalment finance, credit cards, bancassurance products and wealth management services.
It also offers customised business solutions for commercial and large corporate customers.
Barclays Capital Barclays Capital is the investment banking division of Barclays that provides large corporate, institutional and government clients with solutions to their financing and risk management needs.
Barclays Capital services a wide variety of client needs, covering strategic advisory and M&A: equity and fixed income capital raising and corporate lending: and risk management across foreign exchange, interest rates, equities and commodities.
Activities are organised into three principal areas: Global Markets, which includes commodities, credit products, equities, foreign exchange, interest rate products: Investment Banking, which includes corporate advisory, Mergers and Acquisitions, equity and fixed-income capital raising and corporate lending: and Private Equity and Principal Investments.
Barclays Capital includes Absa Capital, the investment banking business of Absa.
Barclays Capital works closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Barclays Global Investors The majority of the BGI business, which was previously reported as a separate business segment, was sold on 1st December 2009 to BlackRock, Inc. and represents the Groups discontinued operations.
The continuing operations of BGI disclosed in the segmental analysis represent residual obligations under the cash support arrangements and associated liquidity support charges and, from 1st December 2009, include the Groups 19.9% ongoing economic interest in BlackRock, Inc.
This investment is accounted for as an available for sale equity investment, with no dividends being received during 2009.
Barclays Wealth Barclays Wealth focuses on private and intermediary clients worldwide providing international and private banking, fiduciary services, investment management, and brokerage.
Barclays Wealth works closely with all other parts of the Group to leverage synergies from client relationships and product capabilities.
Head Office Functions and Other Operations Head Office Functions and Other Operations comprises head office and central support functions, businesses in transition and inter-segment adjustments.
Head office and central support functions comprises the following areas: Executive Management, Finance, Treasury, Corporate Affairs, Human Resources, Strategy and Planning, Internal Audit, Legal, Corporate Secretariat, Property, Tax, Compliance and Risk.
Costs incurred wholly on behalf of the businesses are recharged to them.
Businesses in transition principally relate to certain lending portfolios that are centrally managed with the objective of maximising recovery from the assets.
306 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 53 Segmental reporting continued As at 31st December 2009 Barclays Head office UK ComGRCB GRCB Barclays functions Total Retail mercial BarclayWestern Emerging GRCB Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing a Banking Bank card Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors Wealth operations Operations m m m m m m m m m m m Interest income from external customers 2,421 1,568 2,573 1,083 765 1,385 1,002 37 470 688 11,918 Other income from external customers 1,550 1,096 1,456 640 280 1,166 10,097 76 966 122 17,205 Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 3,971 2,664 4,029 1,723 1,045 2,551 11,099 39 1,436 566 29,123 Inter-segment income 14 89 13 2 526 1 103 538 Total income net of insurance claims 3,985 2,753 4,042 1,723 1,045 2,549 11,625 40 1,333 28 29,123 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 936 974 1,798 667 471 567 2,591 51 16 8,071 Segment expenses external 2,187 838 1,440 1,318 934 1,743 6,559 2 1,015 683 16,715 Inter-segment expenses 253 192 54 205 82 274 33 19 123 113 Total expenses 2,440 1,030 1,494 1,113 852 1,469 6,592 17 1,138 570 16,715 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 3 8 4 4 22 1 34 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 3 157 24 3 1 1 7 188 Gains on acquisitions 26 26 Business segment profit before tax 612 749 761 130 254 506 2,464 22 145 550 4,585 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 146 69 133 110 77 143 452 51 25 1,206 Impairment loss intangible assets 41 17112 1 27 Impairment of goodwill 1 1 Investments in associates and joint ventures 2 1 5 88 34 170 134 422 Total assets 105,228 75,547 30,220 64,185 11,874 45,8241,019,120 5,406 15,095 6,430 1,378,929 Total liabilities 102,934 68,108 5,543 48,049 9,836 25,769 951,192 416 41,648 66,956 1,320,451 Note a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 307 53 Segmental reporting continued As at 31st December 2008 Barclays Head office UK ComGRCB GRCB Barclays functions Total Retail mercial BarclayWestern Emerging GRCB Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing b b a Banking Bank card Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors Wealth operations Operations m m m m m m m m m m m Interest income from external customers 2,816 1,589 1,677 831 621 1,223 2,026 52 496 242 11,469 Other income from external customers 1,702 1,068 1,492 627 373 946 2,989 26 914 355 9,730 Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 4,518 2,657 3,169 1,458 994 2,169 5,015 78 1,410 113 21,199 Inter-segment income 36 88 50 3 29 216 6 86 264 Total income net of insurance claims 4,482 2,745 3,219 1,455 994 2,198 5,231 72 1,324 377 21,199 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 602 414 1,097 297 165 347 2,423 44 30 5,419 Segment expenses external 2,138 934 1,405 1,139 825 1,576 3,789 256 809 520 13,391 Inter-segment expenses 381 129 17 179 137 271 15 18 126 69 Total expenses 2,519 1,063 1,422 960 688 1,305 3,774 274 935 451 13,391 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 8 2 3 5 6 14 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 1 326 327 Gains on acquisitions 92 52 2,262 2,406 Business segment profit before tax 1,369 1,266 789 250 141 552 1,302 346 671 858 5,136 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 111 69 114 75 52 117 272 1 40 31 882 Impairment loss intangible assets 3 3 Impairment of goodwill 37 74 1 112 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 3 13 84 150 122 341 Total assets 101,384 84,029 30,925 65,519 13,866 40,391 1,629,117 71,340 13,263 3,146 2,052,980 Total liabilities 104,640 64,997 3,004 37,632 10,135 20,720 1,603,093 68,372 45,846 47,130 2,005,569 Notes a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39. b Figures have been restated for Barclays Russia, which was transferred from GRCB Emerging Markets to GRCB Western Europe during 2009.
308 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31st December 2009 continued 53 Segmental reporting continued As at 31st December 2007 Barclays Head office UK ComGRCB GRCB Barclays functions Total Retail mercial BarclayWestern Emerging GRCB Barclays Global Barclays and other Continuing a Banking Bank card Europe Markets Absa Capital Investors Wealth operations Operations m m m m m m m m m m m Interest income from external customers 2,725 1,624 1,303 472 344 1,140 1,536 14 453 15 9,598 Other income from external customers 1,652 922 1,086 474 189 832 5,398 27 890 30 11,446 Income from external customers, net of insurance claims 4,377 2,546 2,389 946 533 1,972 6,934 41 1,343 45 21,044 Inter-segment income 80 18 141 9 27 185 11 56 237 Total income net of insurance claims 4,297 2,564 2,530 937 533 1,999 7,119 30 1,287 192 21,044 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 559 292 827 76 39 146 846 7 3 2,795 Segment expenses external 2,154 785 1,079 859 553 1,518 3,989 77 829 253 12,096 Inter-segment expenses 316 144 14 186 158 251 16 12 144 19 Total expenses 2,470 929 1,093 673 395 1,267 3,973 89 973 234 12,096 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 7 7 1 6 35 42 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 14 8 5 1 28 Business segment profit before tax 1,275 1,357 603 196 100 597 2,335 119 307 428 6,223 Additional information Depreciation and amortisation 101 33 79 42 30 121 181 18 26 631 Impairment loss intangible assets 13 1 14 Investments in associates and joint ventures 7 1 8 108 171 112 377 Total assets 88,477 74,566 22,121 43,702 9,188 36,368 839,850 89,218 18,188 5,683 1,227,361 Total liabilities 101,516 66,251 1,952 24,004 7,507 17,176 811,704 87,096 44,152 33,527 1,194,885 Revenue by products and services Details of revenue from external customers by product or service are disclosed in Notes 2 to 6 on pages 212 and 213.
Geographical information i A geographical analysis of revenues from external customers is presented below: 2009 2008 2007 ` m m m Continuing operations Attributed to the UK 12,850 11,958 12,744 Other European Union 4,397 3,514 3,232 United States 5,547 471 1,119 South Africa 2,980 2,618 2,374 Other Africa 917 1,015 814 Rest of the World 2,432 2,565 761 Total 29,123 21,199 21,044 Discontinued operations Attributed to the UK 432 319 383 Other European Union 100 119 142 United States 1,084 1,181 1,090 Rest of the World 247 297 341 There are no individual countries included in Other European Union, Other Africa, or Rest of the World contributing more than 5% of income from external customers.
Note a The discontinued operations of the Barclays Global Investors business are disclosed in Note 39. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 309 Barclays Bank PLC data 310 Consolidated income statement 311 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 312 Consolidated balance sheet 313 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 314 Consolidated cash flow statement 315 Notes to the accounts 324 Financial data 310 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated income statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 Notes m m m Continuing operations Interest income a 21,236 28,010 25,296 Interest expense a 9,567 16,595 15,707 Net interest income 11,669 11,415 9,589 Fee and commission income b 9,946 7,573 6,745 Fee and commission expense b 1,528 1,082 970 Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,775 Net trading income c 6,994 1,270 3,754 Net investment income c 283 680 1,216 Principal transactions 7,277 1,950 4,970 Net premiums from insurance contracts 5 1,172 1,090 1,011 Other income f 1,389 444 222 Total income 29,925 21,390 21,567 Net claims and benefits incurred on insurance contracts 5 831 237 492 Total income net of insurance claims 29,094 21,153 21,075 Impairment charges and other credit provisions 7 8,071 5,419 2,795 Net income 21,023 15,734 18,280 Staff costs 8 9,948 7,204 7,611 Administration and general expenses d 5,558 5,301 3,854 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 759 606 453 Amortisation of intangible assets 22 447 276 178 Operating expenses 16,712 13,387 12,096 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 20 34 14 42 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 188 327 28 Gains on acquisitions 40 26 2,406 Profit before tax 4,559 5,094 6,254 Tax e 1,047 449 1,699 Profit after tax from continuing operations 3,512 4,645 4,555 Discontinued operations Profit after tax for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 Net profit for the year 10,289 5,249 5,126 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from: Continuing operations 3,228 4,259 4,218 Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531 Total 9,993 4,846 4,749 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 296 403 377 10,289 5,249 5,126 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 212 to 308, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 315 to 323. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 311 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Net profit for the year 10,289 5,249 5,126 Other comprehensive income: Continuing operations Currency translation differences 853 2,233 34 Available for sale financial assets 1,320 1,577 94 Cash flow hedges 165 376 359 Other 1 56 22 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 26 851 40 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax from continuing operations 605 1,827 361 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax from discontinued operations 58 114 26 Total comprehensive income for the year 10,836 7,190 5,513 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent 10,286 6,654 5,135 Non-controlling interests 550 536 378 10,836 7,190 5,513 312 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated balance sheet As at 31st December 2009 2008 Notes m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,593 1,695 Trading portfolio assets g 151,395 185,646 Financial assets designated at fair value: held on own account 13 41,311 54,542 held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,257 66,657 Derivative financial instruments 14 416,815 984,802 Loans and advances to banks 15 41,135 47,707 Loans and advances to customers 15 420,224 461,815 Available for sale financial investments h 56,651 65,016 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 17 143,431 130,354 Other assets 18 6,358 6,302 Current tax assets 349 389 Investments in associates and joint ventures 20 422 341 Goodwill 21 6,232 7,625 Intangible assets 22 2,563 2,777 Property, plant and equipment 23 5,626 4,674 Deferred tax assets 19 2,303 2,668 Total assets 1,379,148 2,053,029 Liabilities Deposits from banks 76,446 114,910 Items in the course of collection due to other banks 1,466 1,635 Customer accounts 322,455 335,533 Trading portfolio liabilities 12 51,252 59,474 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 24 86,202 76,892 Liabilities to customers under investment contracts 13 1,679 69,183 Derivative financial instruments 14 403,416 968,072 Debt securities in issue 135,902 153,426 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 17 198,781 182,285 Other liabilities 25 12,101 12,640 Current tax liabilities 964 1,215 Insurance contract liabilities, including unit-linked liabilities 26 2,140 2,152 Subordinated liabilities 27 25,816 29,842 Deferred tax liabilities 19 470 304 Provisions 28 590 535 Retirement benefit liabilities 30 769 1,357 Total liabilities 1,320,449 2,009,455 Shareholders equity Called up share capital i 2,402 2,398 Share premium account i 12,092 12,060 Other reserves j 1,783 1,723 Other shareholders equity k 2,559 2,564 Retained earnings j 37,089 22,457 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests 55,925 41,202 Non-controlling interests l 2,774 2,372 Total shareholders equity 58,699 43,574 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 1,379,148 2,053,029 The note numbers refer to the notes on pages 212 to 308, whereas the note letters refer to those on pages 315 to 323.
These financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 9th March 2010. www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 313 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other b reserves Share capital and Nonand share shareholders Retained controlling Total a c premium equity earnings Total interests equity m m m m m m Balance at 1st January 2009 14,458 4,287 22,457 41,202 2,372 43,574 Net profit for the year 9,993 9,993 296 10,289 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation differences 1,138 1,138 285 853 Available for sale financial assets 1,334 1,334 14 1,320 Cash flow hedges 194 194 29 165 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 209 171 38 12 26 Other 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations 75 17 58 58 Total comprehensive income 106 10,180 10,286 550 10,836 Issue of new ordinary shares 25 25 25 Issue of new preference shares Equity settled share schemes 298 298 298 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 80 80 80 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 4,850 4,850 4,850 Dividends paid 103 103 132 235 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 599 599 599 Net increase decrease in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, disposals and capital issuances 82 82 Other 11 51 86 46 66 112 Balance at 31st December 2009 14,494 4,342 37,089 55,925 2,774 58,699 Balance at 1st January 2008 13,133 2,517 14,222 29,872 1,949 31,821 Net profit for the year 4,846 4,846 403 5,249 Other comprehensive income: Currency translation differences 2,174 2,174 59 2,233 Available for sale financial assets 1,575 1,575 2 1,577 Cash flow hedges 271 271 105 376 Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 926 46 880 29 851 Other 56 56 56 Other comprehensive income net of tax from discontinued operations 124 10 114 114 Total comprehensive income 1,920 4,734 6,654 536 7,190 Issue of new ordinary shares 16 16 16 Issue of new preference shares 1,309 1,309 1,309 Equity settled share schemes 463 463 463 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 437 437 437 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 5,137 5,137 5,137 Dividends paid 1,160 1,160 134 1,294 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 502 502 502 Net increase decrease in non-controlling interest arising on acquisitions, disposals and capital issuances 4 4 Other 150 150 17 133 Balance at 31st December 2008 14,458 4,287 22,457 41,202 2,372 43,574 Notes a Details of share capital and share premium are shown in Note i. b Details of other reserves are shown in Note j. c Details of retained earnings are shown in Note j.
314 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Consolidated cash flow statement For the year ended 31st December 2009 2008 2007 m m m Continuing operations Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash flows from operating activities: Profit before tax 4,559 5,094 6,254 Adjustment for non-cash items: Allowance for impairment 8,071 5,419 2,795 Depreciation and amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment and intangibles 1,196 885 651 Other provisions, including pensions 428 804 753 Net profit from associates and joint ventures 34 14 42 Net profit on disposal of investments and property, plant and equipment 610 371 862 Net profit from disposal of associates and joint ventures 3 26 Net profit from disposal of subsidiaries 191 327 2 Net gains on acquisitions 26 2,406 Other non-cash movements 4,255 994 1,519 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Net decrease increase in loans and advances to banks and customers 25,482 58,432 77,987 Net decrease increase in deposits and debt securities in issue 49,014 76,886 91,451 Net decrease increase in derivative financial instruments 3,321 17,529 2,144 Net decrease increase in trading assets 34,292 26,945 18,245 Net decrease in trading liabilities 8,222 5,928 6,472 Net increase decrease in financial investments 20,459 5,229 4,379 Net increase decrease in other assets 465 3,013 1,113 Net decrease in other liabilities 907 492 1,056 Tax paid 1,176 1,398 1,254 Net cash from operating activities 41,421 32,346 10,971 Purchase of available for sale financial investments 78,420 57,756 26,947 Proceeds from sale or redemption of available for sale financial investments 88,931 51,429 38,423 Net addition of intangible assets 226 666 227 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,150 1,643 1,182 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 372 799 617 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 28 961 270 Disposal of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 339 238 383 Disposal of discontinued operation, net of cash acquired 2,469 Increase in investment in subsidiaries 157 668 Decrease in investment in subsidiaries 19 57 Acquisition of associates and joint ventures 81 96 220 Disposal of associates and joint ventures 69 137 145 Other cash flows associated with investing activities 15 5 153 Net cash from investing activities 12,260 8,662 10,264 Dividends paid 590 1,446 3,010 Proceeds from borrowings and issuance of debt securities 3,549 9,645 4,646 Repayments of borrowings and redemption of debt securities 4,383 1,207 683 Net issue of shares and other equity instruments 14 1,339 1,355 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 800 5,137 1,434 Net issues of shares to non-controlling interests 11 199 Net cash from financing activities 610 13,479 3,941 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 2,864 6,018 641 Net cash from discontinued operations 376 286 83 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 49,831 31,431 2,676 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 64,509 33,078 30,402 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 114,340 64,509 33,078 Cash and cash equivalents comprise: Cash and balances at central banks 81,483 30,019 5,801 Loans and advances to banks 41,135 47,707 40,120 Less: non-cash amounts and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 10,674 15,428 19,376 30,461 32,279 20,744 Available for sale treasury and other eligible bills 56,483 64,976 43,256 Less: non-cash and amounts with original maturity greater than three months 54,239 62,876 41,872 2,244 2,100 1,384 Trading portfolio assets 151,344 185,637 193,726 Less: non-cash and amounts with maturity greater than three months 151,192 185,526 188,591 152 111 5,135 Other 14 114,340 64,509 33,078 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 315 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts a Net interest income 2009 2008 2007 m m m Cash and balances with central banks 131 174 145 Available for sale investments 1,937 2,355 2,580 Loans and advances to banks 513 1,267 1,416 Loans and advances to customers 18,456 23,754 19,559 Other 199 460 1,596 Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296 Deposits from banks 634 2,189 2,720 Customer accounts 2,720 6,714 4,110 Debt securities in issue 4,134 5,947 6,651 Subordinated liabilities 1,718 1,349 878 Other 361 396 1,348 Interest expense 9,567 16,595 15,707 Net interest income 11,669 11,415 9,589 Interest income includes 185m 2008: 135m, 2007: 113m accrued on impaired loans.
Included in net interest income is hedge ineffectiveness as detailed in Note 14. b Net fee and commission income 2009 2008 2007 m m m Fee and commission income Brokerage fees 88 56 78 Investment management fees 133 120 122 Banking and credit related fees and commissions 9,578 7,208 6,367 Foreign exchange commissions 147 189 178 Fee and commission income 9,946 7,573 6,745 Fee and commission expense 1,528 1,082 970 Net fee and commission income 8,418 6,491 5,775 c Principal transactions 2009 2008 2007 m m m Net trading income 6,994 1,270 3,754 Net gain from disposal of available for sale assets 576 212 560 Dividend income 6 196 26 Net loss gain from financial instruments designated at fair value 208 33 293 Other investment losses income 91 239 337 Net investment income 283 680 1,216 Principal transactions 7,277 1,950 4,970 316 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts continued d Administration and general expenses 2009 2008 2007 m m m Administrative expenses 4,886 4,787 3,691 Impairment charges releases : property and equipment Note 23 34 33 2 intangible assets Note 22 27 3 14 goodwill Note 21 1 112 Operating lease rentals 639 520 414 Gain on property disposals 29 148 267 Administration and general expenses 5,558 5,301 3,854 Auditors remuneration Audit Taxation Other Audit related services services Total m m m m m 2009 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 23 23 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 2 2 Other services relating to taxation 7 7 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 3 3 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 35674 52 2008 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 12 12 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 19 19 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 2 2 Other services relating to taxation 9 9 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 2 2 Other 4 15 Total auditors remuneration 31693 49 2007 Audit of the Groups annual accounts 7 7 Other services: Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation 11 11 Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation 6 2 8 Other services relating to taxation 3 3 Services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into by or on behalf of the Bank or any of its associates 5 5 Other 1 12 Total auditors remuneration 24336 36 The figures shown in the above tables relate to fees paid to  LLP and its associates for continuing operations of business.
Fees paid to other auditors not associated with  LLP in respect of the audit of the Banks subsidiaries were 3m 2008: 3m, 2007: 2m.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 317 d Administration and general expenses continued Fees payable for the audit of the Banks associates pursuant to legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries and associated pension schemes both inside and outside Great Britain and fees for the work performed by the associates of  LLP in respect of the consolidated financial statements of the Bank.
Other services supplied pursuant to such legislation comprise services in relation to statutory and regulatory filings.
These includes audit services for the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the UK listing authority and fees paid for reporting under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
In 2008 and 2009 fees paid for reporting under Section 404 are not separately identifiable from the fees of the audit of the Banks annual accounts and the Banks associates.
Fees for the audit of Barclays Bank PLC Group accounts are not separately identifiable from Barclays PLC, therefore there is no difference in the amounts reported in both Annual Reports.
Other services related to taxation include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as consultation on tax matters, tax advice relating to transactions and other tax planning and advice.
Services relating to corporate finance transactions comprise due diligence related to transactions and other work in connection with such transactions.
eTax The charge for tax is based upon the UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30% and comprises: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Current tax charge credit Current year 1,235 1,197 2,013 Adjustment for prior years 131 98 10 1,104 1,295 2,023 Deferred tax credit charge Current year 45 577 297 Adjustment for prior years 102 269 27 57 846 324 Total charge 1,047 449 1,699 The effective tax rate for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007 is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30%.
The differences are set out below: 2009 2008 2007 m m m Profit before tax 4,560 5,094 6,254 Tax charge at standard UK corporation tax rate of 28% 2008: 28.5%, 2007: 30% 1,277 1,452 1,876 Adjustment for prior years 233 171 17 Differing overseas tax rates 27 175 82 Non-taxable gains and income including amounts offset by unrecognised tax losses 119 851 145 Share-based payments 38 201 71 Deferred tax assets not recognised previously not recognised 27 504 159 Change in tax rates 12 1 24 Other non-allowable expenses 172 148 131 Overall tax charge 1,047 449 1,699 Effective tax rate 23% 9% 27% The effective tax rate for 2009, based on profit before tax on continuing operations was 23.0% 2008: 8.8%.
318 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts continued f Other income 2009 2008 2007 m m m Increase decrease in fair value of assets held in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts 102 1,219 23 Increase decrease in liabilities to customers under investment contracts 102 1,219 23 Property rentals 64 73 53 Gain on debt buy backs and extinguishments 1,255 24 Other income 70 347 169 Other income 1,389 444 222 g Trading portfolio assets 2009 2008 m m Trading portfolio assets Treasury and other eligible bills 9,926 4,544 Debt securities 116,594 148,686 Equity securities 19,653 30,544 Traded loans 2,962 1,070 Commodities 2,260 802 Trading portfolio assets 151,395 185,646 h Available for sale financial investments 2009 2008 m m Debt securities 43,888 58,831 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,919 4,003 Equity securities 6,844 2,182 Available for sale financial investments 56,651 65,016 Movement in available for sale financial investments 2009 2008 m m At beginning of year 65,016 43,256 Exchange and other adjustments 4,439 14,275 Acquisitions and transfers 83,915 59,703 Disposals through sale and redemption 88,999 50,629 Gains losses from changes in fair value recognised in equity 1,889 1,190 Impairment charge 670 382 Amortisation charge 6 17 Business disposals discontinued operations 55 At end of year 56,651 65,016 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 319 i Called up share capital Ordinary Shares The authorised ordinary share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, was 3,000 million ordinary shares of 1 each 2008: 3,000 million.
During the year 4 million ordinary shares were issued for cash consideration of 25m.
Preference Shares The authorised preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, was 1,000 Preference Shares of 1 each 2008: 1,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2008: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of 100 each 2008: 400,000 : 400,000 Preference Shares of US$100 each 2008: 400,000 : 300 million Preference Shares of US$0.25 each 2008: 300 million.
The issued preference share capital of Barclays Bank PLC, as at 31st December 2009, comprised 1,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 1 each 2008: 1,000 : 240,000 Euro Preference Shares of 100 each 2008: 240,000 : 75,000 Sterling Preference Shares of 100 each 2008: 75,000 : 100,000 US Dollar Preference Shares of US$100 each 2008: 100,000 : 237 million US Dollar Preference Shares of US$0.25 each 2008: 237 million.
2009 2008 m m Called up share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 2,338 2,336 Issued for cash 4 2 At end of year 2,342 2,338 Called up preference share capital, allotted and fully paid At beginning of year 60 46 Issued for cash 14 At end of year 60 60 Called up share capital 2,402 2,398 Share premium 2009 2008 m m At beginning of year 12,060 10,751 Ordinary shares issued for cash 21 15 Preference shares issued for cash 1,294 Preference shares other movement 11 At end of year 12,092 12,060 Sterling 1 Preference Shares 1,000 Sterling cumulative callable preference shares of 1 each the 1 Preference Shares were issued on 31st December 2004 at nil premium.
The 1 Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semiannually at a rate reset semi-annually equal to the Sterling interbank offered rate for six-month sterling deposits.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be obliged to pay such dividends if: 1 it has profits available for the purpose of distribution under the Companies Act 2006 as at each dividend payment date: and 2 it is solvent on the relevant dividend payment date, provided that a capital regulations condition is satisfied on such dividend payment date.
The dividends shall not be due and payable on the relevant dividend payment date except to the extent that Barclays Bank PLC could make such payment and still be solvent immediately thereafter.
Barclays Bank PLC shall be considered solvent on any date if: 1 it is able to pay its debts to senior creditors as they fall due: and 2 its auditors have reported within the previous six months that its assets exceed its liabilities.
If Barclays Bank PLC shall not pay, or shall pay only in part, a dividend for a period of seven days or more after the due date for payment, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares may institute proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC.
No remedy against Barclays Bank PLC shall be available to the holder of any 1 Preference Shares for the recovery of amounts owing in respect of 1 Preference Shares other than the institution of proceedings for the winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC and or proving in such winding-up.
On a winding-up or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase by Barclays Bank PLC of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, permitted by the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC and under applicable law, the assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders shall be applied in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares and any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking junior to the 1 Preference Shares on such a return of capital and pari passu on such a return of capital with the holders of any other class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue other than any class of shares in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC then in issue ranking in priority to the 1 Preference Shares on a winding-up or other such return of capital, in payment to the holders of the 1 Preference Shares of a sum equal to the aggregate of: 1 an amount equal to the dividends accrued thereon for the then current dividend period and any accumulated arrears thereof to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital: and 2 an amount equal to 1 per 1 Preference Share.
After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled, the holders of the 1 Preference Shares wil have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of Barclays Bank PLC and will not be entitled to any further participation in such return of capital.
The 1 Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, subject to the Companies Act 2006 and its Articles.
Holders of the 1 Preference Shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
320 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts continued i Called up share capital continued Euro Preference Shares 100,000 Euro 4.875% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.875% Preference Shares were issued on 8th December 2004 for a consideration of 993.6m 688.4m, of which the nominal value was 10m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.875% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.875% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2014, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.05% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.875% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2014, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
140,000 Euro 4.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 4.75% Preference Shares were issued on 15th March 2005 for a consideration of 1,383.3m 966.7m, of which the nominal value was 14m and the balance was share premium.
The 4.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Euro non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th March 2020, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 0.71% per annum above the Euro interbank offered rate for three-month Euro deposits.
The 4.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th March 2020, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
Sterling Preference Shares 75,000 Sterling 6.0% non-cumulative callable preference shares of 100 each the 6.0% Preference Shares were issued on 22nd June 2005 for a consideration of 743.7m, of which the nominal value was 7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.0% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive Sterling non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, annually at a fixed rate of 6.0% per annum on the amount of 10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2017, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.42% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month Sterling deposits.
The 6.0% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2017, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at 10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
US Dollar Preference Shares 100,000 US Dollar 6.278% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$100 each the 6.278% Preference Shares, represented by 100,000 American Depositary Shares, Series 1, were issued on 8th June 2005 for a consideration of US$995.4m 548.1m, of which the nominal value was US$10m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.278% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, semi-annually at a fixed rate of 6.278% per annum on the amount of US$10,000 per preference share until 15th December 2034, and thereafter quarterly at a rate reset quarterly equal to 1.55% per annum above the London interbank offered rate for three-month US Dollar deposits.
The 6.278% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th December 2034, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$10,000 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
30 million US Dollar 6.625% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 6.625% Preference Shares, represented by 30 million American Depositary Shares, Series 2, were issued on 25th and 28th April 2006 for a consideration of US$727m 406m, of which the nominal value was US$7.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 6.625% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 6.625% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 6.625% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole but not in part only, on 15th September 2011, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
55 million US Dollar 7.1% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.1% Preference Shares, represented by 55 million American Depositary Shares, Series 3, were issued on 13th September 2007 for a consideration of US$1,335m 657m, of which the nominal value was US$13.75m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.1% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.1% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 7.1% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2012, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
46 million US Dollar 7.75% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 7.75% Preference Shares, represented by 46 million American Depositary Shares, Series 4, were issued on 7th December 2007 for a consideration of US$1,116m 550m, of which the nominal value was US$11.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 7.75% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 7.75% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 321 i Called up share capital continued The 7.75% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th December 2013, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
106 million US Dollar 8.125% non-cumulative callable preference shares of US$0.25 each the 8.125% Preference Shares, represented by 106 million American Depositary Shares, Series 5, were issued on 11th April 2008 and 25th April 2008 for a total consideration of US$2,650m 1,345m, of which the nominal value was US$26.5m and the balance was share premium.
The 8.125% Preference Shares entitle the holders thereof to receive US Dollar non-cumulative cash dividends out of distributable profits of Barclays Bank PLC, quarterly at a fixed rate of 8.125% per annum on the amount of US$25 per preference share.
The 8.125% Preference Shares are redeemable at the option of Barclays Bank PLC, in whole or in part, on 15th June 2013, and on each dividend payment date thereafter at US$25 per share plus any dividends accrued for the then current dividend period to the date fixed for redemption.
No redemption or purchase of any 4.875% Preference Shares, the 4.75% Preference Shares, the 6.0% Preference Shares, the 6.278% Preference Shares, the 6.625% Preference Shares, the 7.1% Preference Shares, the 7.75% Preference Shares and the 8.125% Preference Shares together, the Preference Shares may be made by Barclays Bank PLC without the prior notification to the UK FSA and any such redemption will be subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Barclays Bank PLC.
On a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC or other return of capital other than a redemption or purchase of shares of Barclays Bank PLC, or a reduction of share capital, a holder of Preference Shares will rank in the application of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available to shareholders: 1 junior to the holder of any shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking in priority to the Preference Shares: 2 equally in all respects with holders of other preference shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking pari passu with the Preference Shares: and 3 in priority to the holders of ordinary shares and any other shares of Barclays Bank PLC in issue ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
The holders of the 400m 6% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes and the US$1,000m 6.86% Callable Perpetual Core Tier One Notes of Barclays Bank PLC together, the TONs and the holders of the US$1,250m 8.55% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$750m 7.375% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 850m 7.50% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 5.3304% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,350m 5.926% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the 500m 6.3688% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments, the US$1,250m 7.434% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments and the 3,000m 14% Step-up Callable Perpetual Reserve Capital Instruments of Barclays Bank PLC together, the RCIs would, for the purposes only of calculating the amounts payable in respect of such securities on a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC, subject to limited exceptions and to the extent that the TONs and the RCIs are then in issue, rank pari passu with the holders of the most senior class or classes of preference shares then in issue in the capital of Barclays Bank PLC.
Accordingly, the holders of the preference shares would rank equally with the holders of such TONs and RCIs on such a winding-up of Barclays Bank PLC unless one or more classes of shares of Barclays Bank PLC ranking in priority to the preference shares are in issue at the time of such winding-up, in which event the holders of such TONs and RCIs would rank equally with the holders of such shares and in priority to the holders of the preference shares.
Subject to such ranking, in such event, holders of the preference shares will be entitled to receive out of assets of Barclays Bank PLC available for distributions to shareholders, liquidating distributions in the amount of 10,000 per 4.875% Preference Share, 10,000 per 4.75% Preference Share, 10,000 per 6.0% Preference Share, US$10,000 per 6.278% Preference Share, US$25 per 6.625% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.1% Preference Share, US$25 per 7.75% Preference Share and US$0.25 per 8.125% Preference Share, plus, in each case, an amount equal to the accrued dividend for the then current dividend period to the date of the commencement of the winding-up or other such return of capital.
If a dividend is not paid in full on any preference shares on any dividend payment date, then a dividend restriction shall apply.
Holders of the preference shares are not entitled to receive notice of, or to attend, or vote at, any general meeting of Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays Bank PLC is not permitted to create a class of shares ranking as regards participation in the profits or assets of Barclays Bank PLC in priority to the preference shares, save with the sanction of a special resolution of a separate general meeting of the holders of the preference shares requiring a majority of not less than three-fourths of the holders of the preference shares voting at the separate general meeting or with the consent in writing of the holders of three-fourths of the preference shares.
Except as described above, the holders of the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus assets of Barclays Bank PLC.
322 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Notes to the accounts continued j Reserves Other reserves Available Cash flow for sale hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve Total m m m m At 1st January 2009 1,249 132 2,840 1,723 Net gains from changes in fair value 1,506 287 1,793 Net gains transferred to net profit 642 92 734 Currency translation differences 1,223 1,223 Net losses transferred to net profit due to impairment 670 670 Changes in insurance liabilities 67 67 Net gains transferred to net profit due to fair value hedging 123 123 Tax 179 75 2 256 At 31st December 2009 84 252 1,615 1,783 Retained earnings Retained earnings m At 1st January 2009 22,457 Profit attributable to equity holders 9,993 Equity-settled share schemes 298 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 156 Other taxes 32 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 80 Dividends paid 103 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 599 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 4,850 Other movements 85 At 31st December 2009 37,089 At 1st January 2008 14,222 Profit attributable to equity holders 4,846 Equity-settled share schemes 463 Tax on equity-settled shares schemes 4 Other taxes 52 Vesting of Barclays PLC shares under share-based payment schemes 437 Dividends paid 1,160 Dividends on preference shares and other shareholders equity 502 Capital injection from Barclays PLC 5,137 Other movements 56 At 31st December 2008 22,457 Transfers from the cash flow hedging reserve to the income statement were: interest income 22m loss 2008: 4m loss, interest expense 272m gain 2008: 74m loss, net trading income 165m loss 2008: 119m gain and administration and general expenses of 7m gain 2008: 60m loss.
k Other shareholders equity 2009 2008 m m At 1st January 2,564 2,687 Appropriations 23 Tax credits 47 44 Other movements 52 190 At 31st December 2,559 2,564 Included in other shareholders equity are: Issuances of reserve capital instruments which bear a fixed rate of interest ranging between 7.375%-8.55% until 2010 or 2011.
After these dates, in the event that the reserve capital instruments are not redeemed, they will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London or European interbank rates.
These instruments are repayable, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any coupon payment date falling in or after June or December 2010 or 2011.
The Bank may elect to defer any payment of interest on the reserve capital instruments for any period of time.
Issuance of capital notes which bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance, based on London interbank rates.
These notes are repayable in each case, at the option of the Bank, in whole on any interest payment date.
The Bank is not obliged to make a payment of interest on its capital notes if, in the preceding six months, a dividend has not been declared or paid on any class of shares of Barclays PLC.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 323 l Non-controlling interests 2009 2008 m m At beginning of year 2,372 1,949 Share of profit after tax 296 403 Dividend and other payments 132 134 Equity issued by subsidiaries 4 Available for sale reserve: net loss gain from changes in fair value 12 1 Cash flow hedges: net loss gain from changes in fair value 19 76 Currency translation differences 285 59 Additions 9 Disposals 91 11 Other 66 27 At end of year 2,774 2,372 m Dividends 2009 2008 m m On ordinary shares Final dividend 1,030 Interim dividends 103 130 Dividends 103 1,160 These dividends are paid to enable Barclays PLC to fund its dividends to its shareholders.
Dividends paid on preference shares amounted to 477m 2008: 390m.
Dividends paid on other equity instruments as detailed in Note k amounted to 122m 2008: 112m.
n Financial risks The only significant financial instruments that are held by Barclays Bank PLC and not Barclays PLC are investments in Barclays PLC ordinary shares, dealt with as trading portfolio equity assets, debt securities and available for sale financial investments as appropriate.
There consequently are no significant differences in exposures to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and the fair value of financial instruments between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC, and no differences in the manner in which these financial risks are managed.
Therefore the disclosures regarding financial risks appearing in Notes 46 to 49 are in all material respects the same for Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays PLC.
o Capital The Barclays Bank PLC Groups policies and objectives for managing capital are the same as those for the Barclays PLC Group, disclosed in Note 52.
The table below provides details of the Barclays Bank PLC Group at 31st December 2009 and 2008.
2009 2008 Basel II Basel II m m Total qualifying Tier 1 capital 49,722 37,101 Total qualifying Tier 2 capital 14,620 22,356 Total deductions 880 964 Total net capital resources 63,462 58,493 p Segmental reporting Segmental reporting by Barclays Bank PLC is the same as that presented in Note 53 to the Barclays PLC financial statements, except for: the difference in profit before tax of 26m 2008: 42m between Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC is included in Head office functions and other operations: and the difference in total assets of 219m 2008: 49m is represented by holdings of Barclays PLC shares held by the businesses.
324 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays Bank PLC data Financial data Selected financial statistics IFRS 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 % %%%% Attributable profit from continuing operations as a percentage of: average total assets 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 average shareholders equity 6.5 12.1 14.5 18.8 15.9 Average shareholders equity as a percentage of average total assets 2.9 2.0 2.2 2.2 2.2 Selected income statement data m m m m m Continuing operations Interest income 21,236 28,010 25,296 21,795 17,217 Interest expense 9,567 16,595 15,707 12,662 9,157 Non-interest income 18,256 9,975 11,948 11,433 8,631 Operating expenses 16,712 13,387 12,096 11,723 9,748 Impairment charges 8,071 5,419 2,795 2,154 1,571 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 34 14 42 46 45 Profit on disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 188 327 28 323 Gains on acquisitions 26 2,406 Profit before tax from continuing operations 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772 Profit for the year from discontinued operations, including gain on disposal 6,777 604 571 384 351 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from: Continuing operations 3,228 4,259 4,218 4,578 3,385 Discontinued operations 6,765 587 531 336 310 Selected balance sheet data m m m m m Total shareholders equity 58,699 43,574 31,821 27,106 24,243 Subordinated liabilities 25,816 29,842 18,150 13,786 12,463 Deposits from banks, customer accounts and debt securities in issue 534,803 603,869 506,623 447,453 417,139 Loans and advances to banks and customers 461,359 509,522 385,518 313,226 300,001 Total assets 1,379,148 2,053,029 1,227,583 996,503 924,170 www.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 325 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges Barclays Bank PLC 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 in m except for ratios Ratio of earnings to fixed charges Fixed charges Interest expense 20,962 38,197 37,903 30,385 20,965 Rental expense 256 235 158 135 124 Total fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089 Earnings Income before taxes and non-controlling interests 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures 43 19 45 41 28 4,516 5,075 6,209 6,442 4,744 Fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089 Total earnings including fixed charges 25,734 43,507 44,270 36,962 25,833 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 1.21 1.13 1.16 1.21 1.22 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges and preference shares Barclays Bank PLC 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 in m except for ratios Combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations Interest expense 20,962 38,197 37,903 30,385 20,965 Rental expense 256 235 158 135 124 Fixed charges 21,218 38,432 38,061 30,520 21,089 Preference share dividends and similar appropriations 646 583 345 395 304 Total fixed charges 21,864 39,015 38,406 30,915 21,393 Earnings Income before taxes and non-controlling interests 4,559 5,094 6,254 6,483 4,772 Less: Unremitted pre-tax income of associated companies and joint ventures 43 19 45 41 28 4,516 5,075 6,209 6,442 4,744 Fixed charges 21,864 39,015 38,406 30,915 21,393 Total earnings including fixed charges 26,380 44,090 44,615 37,357 26,137 Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges, preference share dividends and similar appropriations 1.21 1.13 1.16 1.21 1.22 326 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Shareholder information 328 Shareholder information 335 Shareholder enquiries 336 Annual Report Index 338 Glossary of terms
