26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Key performance indicators Financial KPIs Definition Why its important to the business and management Profit before tax Profit before tax is a key indicator of financial performance Total profit before tax Profit before tax is one of the two primary to many of our stakeholders.
2007 2008 2009 profitability measures used to assess Excluding movement on own credit, gains on acquisitions and 7,076m 6,077m 11,642m performance and represents total income less disposals and gains on debt buy-backs, Group profit before tax increased 243% to 5,634m from 1,643m.
impairment charges and operating expenses.
Profit before tax from Total Group profit before tax is represented here alongside continuing operations profit before tax from continuing operations to aid 2007 2008 2009 comparison.
6,223m 5,136m 4,585m Barclays believes that economic profit encourages both Economic profit Economic Profit EP is the other primary profitable growth and the efficient use of capital.
profitability measure used by Barclays.
EP is profit after tax and non-controlling interests less a capital charge average shareholders equity and goodwill excluding non-controlling interests multiplied by the Groups cost of equity.
These measures indicate the returns shareholders are Total shareholder return Shareholder returns Total shareholder return TSR is defined as the receiving for their investment in Barclays both in terms 2007 2008 2009 of relative share price movements and the business value created for shareholders through share 3rd 2nd 1st price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend performance.
These metrics demonstrate the alignment quartile quartile quartile of Barclays strategy and operations with the interests of payments.
We compare Barclays performance with a group of international peers and aim for shareholders.
Return on average top quartile performance.
Return on average shareholders equity shareholders equity is calculated as profit after Peer group: Banco Santander, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, 2007 2008 2009 Deutsche Bank, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds Banking tax divided by the average shareholders equity 20.3% 16.5% 23.8% during the year, which is made up of share Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Unicredit and UBS.
capital, retained earnings and other reserves.
The Groups capital management activities seek to maximise Capital ratios Core Tier 1 and Tier 1 Capital requirements are part of the regulatory shareholders value by optimising the level and mix of its 13.0 capital resources.
Tier 1 framework governing how banks and Core Tier 1 depository institutions are managed.
Capital The Groups capital management objectives are to: Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum ratios express a banks capital as a percentage 8.6 of its risk weighted assets.
Both Tier 1 and Core regulatory capital requirements set by the UK FSA and the 7.6 US requirements that a financial holding company be Tier 1 capital resources are defined by the UK FSA.
Core Tier 1 is broadly tangible shareholders well capitalised Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups funds less the capital deductions from Tier 1.
In the 2008 accounts, we showed Equity Tier 1 Risk Appetite and economic capital requirements Support the Groups credit rating ratio which was broadly representative of the Core Tier 1 ratio.
In 2009, the UK FSA formalised Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements a definition for Core Tier 1 which is now published consistently by the industry in the UK.
Allocate capital to businesses to support the Groups Ratios % strategic objectives, including optimising returns on economic and regulatory capital.
We expect to maintain our Core Tier 1 and Tier 1 ratios at levels which significantly exceed the current minimum requirements of the UK FSA.
Barclays believes that there will be more capital and less Adjusted gross leverage 2007 2008 2009 Adjusted gross leverage is defined as the leverage in the banking system and that lower leverage will 33x 28x 20x be regarded as a key measure of stability going forward.
This multiple of adjusted total tangible assets over total qualifying Tier 1 capital.
Adjusted total is consistent with the views of our regulators and investors.
tangible assets are total assets less derivative counterparty netting, assets under management on the balance sheet, settlement balances, goodwill and intangible assets.
Tier 1 capital is defined by the UK FSA.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 27 Financial KPIs continued Definition Why its important to the business and management Loan funding ratio International regulators have considered the imposition of a This is the ratio of customer loans to deposits backstop core funding ratio as a means of limiting liquidity risk to and long-term funding.
It represents the Groups individual banks and to the financial system as a whole.
We have access to high quality and stable funding sources no clear guidance on whether such a ratio will be developed in the to fund customer assets.
The ratio is calculated by UK.
The Barclays Liquidity Risk Framework already limits the dividing customer loans by customer deposits Groups reliance on less stable sources of funding and we use the plus greater than one year funding in each case, ratio to monitor wholesale refinancing risk and to ensure that excluding Absa.
short-term wholesale financing is not used to fund core customer assets.
Comparative data for 2007 is unavailable as the Group has only formally measured this ratio since 2008.
Average term of unsecured liabilities The extension of the term of our wholesale financing has meant 26 months This is calculated as the term of outstanding that, as at 31st December 2009, over 81% of net wholesale wholesale borrowing excluding subordinated funding has remaining maturity greater than one year and, as at debt and excluding Absa, that has country the same date, there was no net wholesale unsecured refinancing specific funding dynamics that differ from the required within six months.
This improvement in the term of 14 months rest of the Group, after removing the short-term wholesale funding has meant that Barclays has no reliance on deposits that are directly invested in the liquidity short-term wholesale funding markets and consequently has pool.
The longer the average term the lower the greatly increased the Groups resilience to any future liquidity aggregate refinancing risk in wholesale markets.
Comparative data for 2007 is unavailable as the Group has only formally measured the average term of its unsecured liabilities since 2008.
Note Loan funding ratio and average term of unsecured liabilities have been introduced as monitors of the Groups funding model.
Strategic KPIs: Build the best bank Definition Why its important to the business and management 72% UK retail banking customer satisfaction Putting the customer first and improving customer service is The Retail Banking Service Monitor tracks fundamental to our goal of being the UKs best bank.
Customer 67% satisfaction amongst Barclays customers.
satisfaction targets are set at a strategic business unit level 64% Approximately 10,000 customers a month are and business area action plans are developed through the researched for this study.
The satisfaction score continuous tracking of customer satisfaction and complaints is measured using the percentage of customers feedback.
Since June 2008 customer satisfaction and who state they are Very or Completely advocacy have been on an increasing trend as a result of satisfied with Barclays.
We also benchmark significant improvements to our service and innovations our performance in comparison with in our product offerings.
competitors using syndicated or directly commissioned research.
UK Retail Banking Cost:Income Ratio is included within the cost management strategic KPI Net lending in Barclays Commercial Bank Building the best bank means we are there for our customers.
2007 2008 2009 Net lending represents the change in our loans We have supported our customers through the recession 14% 10% 8 % and advances to customers during the year.
via campaigns such as Turning the Corner which has been awarded Best Customer Relationship Initiative in the B2B Marketing Awards.
The campaign offers online expert advice, insight and networking events to connect our customers, attracting over 70,000 hits on our website and over 3,700 people attending connect events.
We continue to be committed to lend to viable businesses across all portfolios, demonstrated through 14bn of new term lending and our stable approval rates on new credit applications.
Barclaycard International Barclaycard is one of Europes largest multi-branded credit UK Non-UK number of customers card businesses, with a fast growing business in the United The total number of customers split between States and South Africa.
In 2003 we targeted growing UK and non-UK.
Barclaycards international operations to the same scale as its UK business over ten years.
This KPI demonstrates how this target is being balanced and maintained.
com annualreport09 Key performance indicators continued Strategic KPIs: Build the best bank continued Definition Why its important to the business and management 57% 47% International generation of income The goal of increasing the international diversification of 43% Percentage of total income net of insurance our income helps to reduce risk and is demonstrated by our claims and benefits generated outside of the UK.
continuing focus to increase the ratio of non-UK to UK businesses.
Strategic KPIs: Develop Retail and Commercial Banking activities in selected countries outside the UK Definition Why its important to the business and management Number of distribution outlets outside This represents the growth in our footprint around the world, 2007 2008 2009 the UK providing a clear indication of the development of our activities 2,349 3,158 3,063 Represents total number of branches and sales outside the UK.
Sales centres are a low cost option for testing demand for banking services in small towns and remote areas, and also augment branch distribution in larger cities.
These sites are reviewed periodically to assess benefits to customers and the franchise as a whole.
In 2009, the number of sales centres in Emerging Markets were reduced as the demand for products and services in these areas did not require the presence of dedicated distribution outlets.
As sales centres do not offer transaction services there is limited impact on customer service, whereas new customers or prospects can be served from the nearest Barclays branch.
Proportion of Global Retail and Commercial This demonstrates the successful execution on Barclays 45% Banking international income strategy of diversifying our business base by geography 38% Percentage of total Global Retail and Commercial over time to achieve higher growth.
32% Banking income earned outside the UK.
Strategic KPIs: Enhance operational excellence Definition Why its important to the business and management Risk management The granting of credit is one of Barclays major sources of Loan loss rate income and its most significant risk.
The loan loss rate is an The loan loss rate represents the impairment indicator of the cost of granting credit.
charge on loans and advances as a proportion of the period and balances.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 29 Strategic KPIs: Enhance operational excellence continued % Definition Why its important to the business and management H109 Peer Group Top Quartile CIR FY08 Barclays Business CIR FY09 Barclays Business CIR Cost management This is a measure management use to assess the productivity of cost:income ratio by business the business operations.
We target a top quartile cost:income productivity benchmarking ratio of each of our businesses relative to their peers.
Cost:income ratio is defined as operating expenses compared to total income net of insurance claims.
This is compared to a peer set we consider relevant for each business.
a Peers include related credit card business b Absa Group Limited c Cost:net income GRCB Emerging Markets is not disclosed as there is not an appropriate peer group for comparison.
Sustainability Definition Why its important to the business and management Global investment in our communities Investing in the communities in which we operate is an integral Barclays total contribution to supporting the part of Barclays sustainability strategy.
We are committed to communities where we operate.
maintaining investment in our communities for the long-term both in good times and in bad.
This metric demonstrates our commitment over time.
Our People Definition Why its important to the business and management Colleagues involved in volunteering, Barclays community investment programme aims to engage 2007 2008 2009 regular giving and fundraising initiatives and support colleagues around the world to get involved with 44,000 57,000 58,000 The total number of Barclays employees taking our main partnerships, as well as the local causes they care part in volunteering, giving and fundraising about.
Harnessing their energy, time and skills delivers real activities with Barclays support.
benefit to local communities, to their own personal development and to their engagement with Barclays.
Employee opinion survey for Global Retail The results of the survey provide leaders with insight into Employee engagement Response rate and Commercial Banking and Group Centre employee views on key business drivers from which they A survey of employees, the results of which give can establish action plans for improvements based on both 91% 91% demographic and diversity information as well strengths and weaknesses identified.
90% as an indication of employee perceptions in four key areas: Barclays Top Leadership, Business Unit Leadership, Customer Focus and Employee 76% 75% 74% Engagement.
The results are analysed to show year on year trends of employee opinion and are benchmarked against other global financial services organisations and high performing organisations.
The income statement on page 204 and the five-year summary included on page 39 shows the income statement on a continuing basis with profit after tax from discontinued operations shown as a single line under profit after tax from continuing operations, in accordance with IFRS.
