com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 147 Directors report Business Review The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 3,040 million The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the ordinary shares during 2009.
In addition to those issued as a result of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December exercise of options under the Sharesave and Executive Share Option 2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and Schemes during the year, the following share issues took place: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group During the period 7th January to 30th June 2009, 2,642 million ordinary known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review is shares were issued following the conversion of Mandatorily Convertible to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have performed their Notes.
duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the Company.
The information that fulfils the requirements On 28th October 2009, 379 million ordinary shares were issued following of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the the exercise of warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares.
Annual Report: At 31st December 2009, the issued ordinary share capital totalled 11,411,577,230 shares.
Ordinary shares represent 100% of the total issued Pages share capital as at 31st December 2009.
Since 31st December 2009 Key performance indicators 26-29 628.3 million ordinary shares have been issued, of which 626.8 million were Financial Review 30-80 issued on exercise of Warrants on 17th February 2010.
As at 5th March Sustainability 22-23 2010, issued ordinary share capital was 12,039,880,284.
Risk factors 82-86 The Companys Articles of Association, a summary of which can be which are incorporated into this report by reference.
found in the Shareholder Information section on pages 328 to 335, contain the following details, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Profit Attributable The structure of the Companys capital, including the rights and The profit attributable to equity shareholders of Barclays PLC for the year obligations attaching to each class of shares.
amounted to 9,393m, compared with 4,382m in 2008.
Restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, including limitations on the holding of securities and requirements to obtain Dividends approvals for a transfer of securities.
The final dividend for the year ended 31st December 2009 of 1.5p per ordinary share of 25p each has been agreed by the Directors.
The final Restrictions on voting rights.
dividend was announced on 16th February 2010 for payment on The powers of the Directors, including in relation to issuing or buying back 19th March 2010 in respect of the ordinary shares registered at the close shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
It will be proposed at of business on 26th February 2010.
With the interim dividend of 1.0p per the 2010 AGM that the Directors be granted new authorities to allot and ordinary share that was paid on 11th December 2009, the total distribution buy-back shares under the Companies Act 2006. for 2009 is 2.5p 2008: 11.5p per ordinary share.
The interim and final dividend for 2009 amounted to 289m 2008: 906m.
Rules that the Company has about the appointment and removal of Directors or amendments to the Companys Articles of Association.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays PLC ordinary the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs may shares by participating in the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary The DRIP is available to all shareholders, including members of Barclays duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan governing Sharestore, provided that they do not live in, and are not subject to the documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Company that their jurisdiction of, any country where their participation in the DRIP would normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of the Barclays shares require Barclays or The Plan Administrator to Barclays DRIP to take action held in trust.
The trustees of the Sharepurchase EBT may vote in respect to comply with local government or regulatory procedures or any similar of Barclays shares held in the Sharepurchase EBT, but only at the discretion formalities.
Any shareholder wishing to obtain details and a form to join the of the participants.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares DRIP should write to: The Plan Administrator to Barclays DRIP, Aspect House, held in the Sharepurchase EBT.
Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA, United Kingdom, or, by telephoning 0871 384 2055 calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute using Mandatorily Convertible Notes a BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary from the UK or On 27th November 2008, Barclays Bank PLC issued 4,050m of 9.75% 44 121 415 7004 from overseas.
Manda torily Convertible Notes MCNs maturing on 30th September 2009 to: Qatar Holding LLC: Challenger Universal Limited and entities Share Capital representing the beneficial interests of HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the creation of Nahyan, a member of the Royal Family of Abu Dhabi: existing institutional S terling, Dollar, Euro and Yen preference shares preference shares in order shareholders: and other institutional investors.
If not converted at the to provide the Group with more flexibility in managing its capital resources.
holders option beforehand, these instruments mandatorily converted As at 5th March 2010 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report to ordinary shares of Barclays PLC on 30th June 2009.
The conversion price no preference shares have been issued.
was 1.53276 and, after taking into account MCNs that were converted The Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares of 25p each on or before 31st December 2008, resulted in the issue of 2,642 million during 2009 2008: 36,150,000 at a total cost of 171,923,243. new ordinary shares.
As at 5th March 2010, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 837,620,130 ordinary shares.
The authorised ordinary share capital was increased by 7,000 million ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting held on 23rd April 2009.
148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Directors report continued Warrants Retirement and Re-election of Directors On 31st October 2008, Barclays PLC issued, in conjunction with a In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third rounded down of simultaneous issue of Reserve Capital Instruments issued by Barclays Bank the Directors of Barclays PLC are required to retire by rotation at each Annual PLC, warrants to subscribe for up to 1,516.9 million new ordinary shares at a General Meeting AGM, together with Directors appointed by the Board price of 1.97775 to Qatar Holding LLC and HH Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed since the last AGM.
The retiring Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The warrants may be exercised at any time up to close of In addition, the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, business on 31st October 2013. recommends that every Director should seek re-election by shareholders If there is a change of control of Barclays PLC following a takeover bid, at least every three years.
Barclays PLC must so far as legally possible use all reasonable endeavours All members of the Board exceptionally offered themselves for reto cause the corporation which then controls Barclays PLC to execute a election at the Barclays Annual General Meeting held in April 2009.
Going deed poll providing that the holders of the warrants shall have the right forward, the Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chairmen of each during the period in which the warrants are exercisable to exercise the principal Board Committee will stand for re-election on an annual basis.
warrants into the class and amount of shares and other securities and One-third of the remaining Directors excluding Directors appointed since property receivable upon such a takeover by the holders of the number the last AGM will retire by rotation annually.
The Directors offering of ordinary shares as would have been issued on exercise of the warrants themselves for re-election in such a manner at the 2010 AGM are Marcus had such warrants been exercised immediately prior to the completion Agius, David Booth, Sir Richard Broadbent and Sir Michael Rake.
Directors retiring by rotation at the 2010 AGM and offering themselves for The warrants contain provisions for the adjustment of the gross re-election are Sir Andrew Likierman and Chris Lucas.
In addition, Reuben number of ordinary shares in the event of the occurrence of certain dilutive Jeffery, who was appointed as a Director since the last AGM, will be offering events including, amongst others, extraordinary dividends, bonus issues, himself for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
alterations to the nominal value of ordinary shares and rights issues.
As at 5th March 2010, a total of 1,006.1 million ordinary shares have Directors Interests been issued on exercise of warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares.
Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2009 are shown on page 178.
Substantial Shareholdings Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of Directors Emoluments other shareholders.
As at 5th March 2010, the Company had been notified Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the with the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom following holdings of voting rights in its shares: Listing Authority, is given in the Remuneration report on pages 170 to186 and in Note 42 to the accounts.
% of total % of total voting rights voting rights Directors Indemnities Number of attaching attaching The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and Barclays to issued Number of to issued a Holder Shares share capital warrants share capital retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities on b BlackRock, Inc. 805,969,166 7.06 terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.76 379,218,809 3.15 party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act Nexus Capital 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended Investing Ltd 626,835,443 5.49 131,602,175 1.15 31st December 2009 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date Legal & General of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain Group Plc 483,625,057 4.01 losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection Appleby Trust with their duties, powers or office.
c Jersey Limited 353,373,992 3.10 Activities and likely Future Developments Board Membership The Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail The membership of the Boards of Directors of Barclays PLC and Barclays banking, credit cards, corporate and investment banking and wealth Bank PLC is identical and biographical details of the Board members are set management.
The Group operates through branches, offices and out on pages 10 and 11.
Simon Fraser and Reuben Jeffery were appointed as subsidiaries in the UK and overseas.
An indication of likely future non-executive Directors with effect from 10th March 2009 and 16th July developments is set out in the Group Chief Executives Review on 2009 respectively.
The following Directors left the Board during 2009: pages14to19.
Professor Dame Sandra Dawson on 23rd April 2009.
Community Involvement Sir Nigel Rudd on 23rd April 2009.
Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many countries Patience Wheatcroft on 16th June 2009. around the world.
The Group provides funding and support to over 7,000 Stephen Russell on 31st October 2009. charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, local charities, like Frits Seegers on 3rd November 2009.
Passage UK, to international organisations like Unicef.
We also have a very successful employee programme which in 2009 saw more than 58,000 employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclays-supported volunteering, giving and fundraising activities.
Further information on Notes a The percentages of voting rights detailed above have been calculated without including the new shares to be issued when the warrants are exercised.
This results in the percentage figures being artificially high.
b The number of Barclays shares includes 8,003,236 contracts for difference to which voting rights are attached.
c The number of Barclays shares includes 192,860,970 Total Return Swap shares to which voting rights are attached.
com annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 149 our community involvement is given on pages 22-23 and 29.
The total increasingly global business.
In the UK, Barclays is committed to providing commitment for 2009 was 54.9m 2008: 52.2m.
The Group committed additional support to employees with disabilities and making it easier for 27.4m in support of the community in the UK 2008: 27.7m and 27.5m them to inform us of their specific requirements, including the introduction was committed in international support 2008: 24.5m.
The UK of a dedicated intranet site and disability helpline.
Through our UK Reasonable commitment includes 19.3m of charitable donations 2008: 19.6m.
Adjustments Scheme, appropriate assistance can be given, including both physical workplace adjustments, and relevant training and access to trained Political Donations mentors is also provided for disabled employees.
A wide range of The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or the rest recruitment initiatives have been taken to increase the number of people of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political parties or other with disabilities working in Barclays.
political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, in which the Health and Safety Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations totalling We are committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our 213,982 in 2009 2008: 186,589 in accordance with its policy of making employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
political donations to the major South African political parties as part of their Barclays regards legislative compliance as a minimum and, where Democracy Support Programme.
Donations are made to parties with more appropriate, we seek to implement higher standards.
Barclays also than three seats in the National Parliament as confirmed by the Independent recognises its responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such as Electoral Commission.
Support for the deepening of democracy in South contractors, visitors and members of the public, and ensures, so far as is Africa remains paramount for the government.
The Group made no other reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to significant risks to their political donations in 2009. health and safety.
Barclays regularly reviews its Statement of Health and At the AGM in 2009, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays Safety Commitment, issued with the authority of the Board and which PLC and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political applies to all business areas in which Barclays has operational control.
expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a precautionary measure in light In this statement Barclays commits to: of the wide definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
This was similar to an demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent with this commitment: authority given by shareholders in 2008.
This authority, which has not been used, expires at the conclusion of the AGM held this year, or, if earlier, provide the appropriate resources to fulfil this commitment: 30th June 2010.
The risk of inadvertently breaching the Companies Act carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions to mitigate the 2006 remains and the Directors consider it prudent to seek a similar risks identified: authority from shareholders.
A resolution to authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make EU political donations and incur EU political consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety: expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 125,000 is therefore ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training and supervision being proposed at the Barclays PLC 2010 AGM.
are provided: Employee Involvement appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice: and Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process and the Statement of of the Group.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option and share Commitment, at regular intervals.
purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in Barclays shares.
Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety of of ways, including the corporate news magazines, intranets, briefings and measurements on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration mobile phone SMS messaging.
These communications help achieve a Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance from common awareness among employees of the financial and economic the Group Human Resource Director.
In 2009, a Health and Safety Steering factors affecting the performance of Barclays.
Barclays is also committed Committee was established to ensure decisions are taken relating to the to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide Health and Safety Global Standard and to oversee the operation of a feedback on issues that are important to them.
Annual Employee Opinion coordinated Health and Safety control framework.
The Committee meets on Surveys are undertaken across the Group with results being reported to a quarterly basis and produces a quarterly report for the HR Risk Committee.
the Board and Board HR and Remuneration Committee, all employees As part of its Partnership Agreement with Unite Amicus section, Barclays and to our European Works Council, Africa Forum, Unite Amicus section, currently funds full time Health and Safety Representatives.
our recognised union in the UK and other recognised unions worldwide.
Roadshows and employee forums also take place.
In addition, Barclays Creditors Payment Policy undertakes regular and formal consultations with our recognised trade Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of paying unions and work councils internationally.
invoices, especially those of small businesses, in a timely manner.
Barclays policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Prompt Diversity and Inclusion Payment Code, copies of which can be obtained from the Prompt Payment The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues and Code website at www.
Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, regardless of of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and but not limited to race, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability.
Reports Regulations 2008 requires disclosure of trade creditor payment We strive to ensure our workforce reflects the communities in which we days.
Disclosure is required by the Company, rather than the Group.
The operate and the international nature of the organisation.
We recognise that Groups principal trading subsidiary in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the diversity is a key part of responsible business strategy in support of our accounts for which are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.
com annualreport09 Directors report continued The components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
However, by identifying as closely as possible the components lead audit partner, who has now been in place for five years, will be replaced that would be required if item E. 4 trade creditors in format I of Schedule 1 for the 2010 year-end.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the of these Regulations applied, the trade creditor payment days for Barclays Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee has recommended Bank PLC for 2009 were 27 days 2008: 24 days.
This is an arithmetical to the Board that the existing auditors,  LLP, be calculation and does not necessarily reflect our practice, which is described reappointed.
 LLP have signified their willingness above, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at Essential Business Contracts the 2010 AGM.
So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the arrangements that are considered essential to the business of the Group.
Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Contracts of Significance that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these Under the terms of a stock purchase agreement dated 16th June 2009 purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the which was entered into by and among Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays PLC and Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
BlackRock, Inc. BlackRock, Barclays agreed to sell BGI to BlackRock.
The sale completed on 1st December 2009 following the receipt of all necessary The Annual General Meeting shareholder and regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other closing The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall on Friday conditions.
The consideration at completion was US$15.2bn 9.5bn, 30th April 2010.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document including 37.567 million new BlackRock shares, giving Barclays an economic sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary of the resolutions being interest of 19.9% of the enlarged BlackRock group.
Barclays has provided proposed at the 2010 AGM is set out below.
BlackRock with customary warranties and indemnities in connection with the sale.
Barclays Bank will also continue to provide support in respect of Ordinary Resolutions certain BGI cash funds until December 2013 and indemnities in respect To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the audited accounts of certain of BGIs fully collateralised securities lending activities until for the year ended 31st December 2009.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2009.
Research and development In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and To re-elect the following Directors: services in each of its business units.
Reuben Jeffery III Marcus Agius Financial Instruments David Booth The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including Sir Richard Broadbent the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which Sir Michael Rake hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk Sir Andrew Likierman and liquidity risk are set out on pages 122 to 132 under the headings, Chris Lucas Barclays risk management strategy, Credit risk management, Market risk management, Liquidity risk management and Derivatives and in Note 14 To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
and Notes 47 to 49 to the accounts.
To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date To authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make political donations On 1st January 2010, the Group acquired 100% ownership of Standard Life and incur political expenditure.
Bank Plc for a consideration of 227m in cash.
The assets acquired include To renew the authority given to Directors to allot securities.
a savings book of approximately 5.8bn, and a mortgage book with outstanding balances of approximately 7.5bn.
To approve and adopt the rules of the Barclays Group SAYE Share As announced on 3rd November 2009, the Group has made changes Option Scheme.
to its business structure, which will be reflected in the Groups external financial reporting for periods commencing 1st January 2010.
The segmental Special Resolutions information presented in this Annual Report represents the business To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for cash segments and other operations used for management and reporting other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares.
purposes during the year ended 31st December 2009.
To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares.
On 17th February 2010, 626.8 million of the 758.4 million warrants held by PCP Gulf Invest 3 Limited a subsidiary of Nexus Capital Investing To permit General Meetings to continue to be called on 14 clear days notice.
Limited were exercised for an aggregate exercise price of approximately To adopt new Articles of Association.
As a result 626.8 million new ordinary shares were issued representing a 5.2% ownership in the Groups enlarged share capital.
This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meetings and you should refer to the Notice of Meeting for full details.
The Auditors The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external By order of the Board auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can be found on page 162 and Note 9 to the accounts.
 LLP have been the Companys auditors for many years.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee Lawrence Dickinson has not considered it necessary to date to require them to tender for the Company Secretary audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners 9th Mar ch 2010
