Performance by division continued While we have restricted our risk appetite to certain types of political insurance, we continue to selectively underwrite risks of short duration and payment terms supporting trade in strategic or industry-critical goods.
Adrian Lewers Head of political risks and contingency 81.3m Gross premiums written political risks & contingency Beazleys political risks and contingency division PCG comprises three teams.
Our political risks team, led by Portfolio mix Adrian Lewers, is a significant participant in the Lloyds subscription market, underwriting 32.1m in gross premiums in 2009 and leading 79% of the risks written.
Our terrorism team, led by Tina Kirby, has grown steadily and profitably since 2001, when property insurers effectively created todays terrorism market by excluding coverage for this peril from commercial property policies.
In 2009, we wrote 33.6m in gross premiums for Contingency 21% Political 34% terrorism coverage, 55% of it as the lead underwriter.
Terrorism 45% Finally, we are one of the largest underwriters of contingency insurance in the London market, covering cancellation risks ranging from tier one sporting Gross premiums written events, such as the Olympic Games, to small scale trade 80 shows and weddings.
Our contingency team, led by 70 Chris Rackliffe, underwrote 15.6m in gross premiums 60 in 2009 and led 74% of its risks.
50 40 Our political team writes a variety of risks types covering 30 trade credit insurance, contract frustration and political 20 risk insurance protecting clients against force majeure 10 acts by governments, such as asset confiscation and 0 nationalisation.
Whilst other parts of the political account 2007 2008 2009 remained profitable, 2009 was a challenging year for our trade credit book, where a series of bank defaults generated a number of large loss notifications mainly in Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Bahrain.
com m Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements In our view, the brokers without the need for direct The system has been principal focus should be contact with an underwriter.
developed in collaboration on the needs of his or her Beazley insures a large with Beazleys specialty lines clients not on number of events, ranging team in the UK and it offers administrative back and forth from conferences and trade a range of professional with the underwriter.
This is shows to sports and cultural indemnity covers as well particularly true of smaller events, both for cancellation as event-related covers.
scale risks where speed of and for public and employers It is currently being made turnaround is critical to a liability risks.
Beazley Access available to the regional brokers profitability.
For large differentiates itself by the UK offices of the major Beazley Access: scale and complex risks, range of event-related risks brokers with whom Beazley face to face contact will that can be bound through does business.
Making brokers always be important, but for the system.
lives easier smaller and more Beazley is well known to standardised risks it will brokers in London as a highly often be unnecessary.
experienced underwriter of With this in mind, contingency risks, offering Beazleys contingency team broad and flexible cover and will launch a web-based substantial capacity, said trading system in early Chris Rackliffe, head of 2010, known as Beazley the contingency team.
Access, designed to help We have sought to apply brokers handle small this experience to our online business more cost platform, enabling brokers effectively and efficiently.
further afield to do business For a broad range of risks, with Beazley rapidly and the system permits brokers efficiently.
to obtain quotes and obtain policy documentation As discussed in our third quarter interim management Our contingency business contracted slightly in 2009 as statement we set aside additional reserves to provide a result of the global economic downturn that reduced for this event.
We have taken a view that the high trade show and exhibition activity.
In addition we took a claims frequency observed in 2009 may continue into strong position early on in relation to swine flu, excluding 2010 and have factored this into our reserving estimate.
this and other communicable diseases from our standard As a consequence, these reserves include a prudent event cancellation cover.
The three members of our margin that may be released over time as the contingency team have been working together for more uncertainty reduces.
Whilst we have restricted our risk appetite to certain Fortunately, our contingency underwriters have other types of political insurance, we continue to selectively strings to their bow, notably an ability to price weatherunderwrite risks of short duration and payment terms related cancellation covers that is second to none in the up to 180 days supporting trade in strategic or London market.
We have access to real time climate industry-critical goods.
We have also reinforced our data from more than 3,000 weather stations around coinsurance requirements to ensure that our clients, the world and plan to expand our weather-related be they banks, commodity traders or exporters, keep product offerings in 2010. some risks themselves.
Our terrorism business performed well in 2009, despite a 4% decline in premium rates.
This is a very service intensive account, with brokers valuing speed, flexibility and decisiveness from underwriters.
We write a book that is well diversified geographically and are accordingly willing to write larger lines than some others in regions such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Mindanao in the Philippines.
