Performance by division continued In 2009, the reinsurance team continued to reinforce Beazleys position as a leader in the London market.
Patrick Hartigan Head of reinsurance 133.8m Gross premiums written reinsurance Reinsurance is a core and growing line of business for Beazley.
Sixteen of our top 20 clients have been with us Portfolio mix for more than 15 years and our gross written premiums in 2009, at 133.8m, were up 91% on 2008.
Adjusting for the effect of the strengthening dollar, in which 65% of our reinsurance business is denominated, the underlying growth rate was 16%.
We plan to increase our premium again in 2010.
More importantly, we have been growing profitably.
Property catastrophe 77% More than two thirds of our book is catastrophe Casualty clash 1% reinsurance for natural and man-made perils so Property risk pro rata 18% Misc 4% clearly the incidence of hurricanes and earthquakes does matter.
Gross premiums written In 2009, our reinsurance team contributed 32.7m to 160 Beazleys pre-tax profits.
140 120 The way a reinsurer writes these risks makes an 100 enormous difference to its long-term profitability.
This 80 result has been in large measure attributable to strong 60 relationships with insurance companies and with 40 teams within insurance companies that we know well 20 and admire.
In 2009 we were able to turn one of these 0 long-term client relationships to even greater benefit 2007 2008 2009 for Beazley through the acquisition of First State, a managing general underwriter formerly owned by the Hartford, whose business we have reinsured for more than a decade.
com m Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements In late July 2009, an establishing a presence unusually severe hail storm in Munich, the home of ravaged property along the Europes reinsurance industry.
shores of Lake Geneva in Beazleys underwriters in Switzerland, causing London would never have SwF 700m in insured been shown the type of highly damage.
Moving north east, localised German, Swiss and the storm fell as rain in Austrian reinsurance business Germany, before freezing that Andreas Bergler, head again in the skies over of the Munich office, is now Raising our profile Austria, where hailstorm underwriting.
Wolfgang, as it has been Were being quite in Munich named, inflicted a further cautious, says Mr Bergler, E450m of damage, who joined Beazley from qualifying as one of the reinsurance brokers Benfield highest market losses ever.
after a career that included Owing largely to Wolfgang, 12 years at Munich Re.
Beazleys Munich office has We have written 56% of the seen a significant hardening business offered to us.
We in reinsurance rates for can be selective because we Austrian cedants at 1 January are seeing a good spread of 2010 renewals, bucking the business.
In 2009, 53% of global trend for rate declines.
Beazleys gross reinsurance At E10m, the Munich office premiums related to North opened in October 2008 American risks, while the still writes a modest continental European share portfolio, and the Austrian was 16%.
Clearly, says share is smaller still.
But it Mr Bergler, we have room illustrates the rationale for to grow.
will share pari passu in all business written by the In August 2009, Patrick Hartigan was promoted to reinsurance team for the account of Beazleys syndicates team leader of our reinsurance division, succeeding 2623 and 623.
We were pleased to be able to establish Neil Maidment, now chairman of the groups the new special purpose syndicate at a time of intense underwriting committee, who had led the division since competition for Names capital within the Lloyds market.
Patrick joined Beazley as deputy underwriter on the reinsurance team in 2004.
He has 18 years of We continue to view the Lloyds market as the worlds experience in the non life reinsurance market in both best place to write reinsurance business, with access underwriting and broking roles.
to high quality business that is second to none.
We are seeing an increasing volume of business from markets In 2009, the reinsurance team continued to reinforce outside the US and Europe, notably from the fast Beazleys position as a leader in the London market, growing economies of China and Brazil.
Where these increasing the proportion of business led from 32% of risks meet our rigorous technical standards, we will write premium income to 38%.
them, forming the basis for long-term relationships of Our accident and life team has successfully integrated the kind we have established with US and European into Beazley and are delivering in line with our clients over the years.
In particular, being in Lloyds has allowed them to underwrite business they had not previously been shown.
This has contributed to the team achieving a very satisfactory gross premium written figure of 43.2m for 2009.
For 2010, we have been able to increase our premium capacity supported by additional capital supplied by Lloyds Names through a new sidecar syndicate, 6107, that Beazley will manage.
The sidecar syndicates Names Beazley Annual Report 2009 27
