Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Horton Andrew Beazley Martin Bride Andrew Horton aged 47 was Andrew Beazley aged 56 is the Martin Bride aged 46 is group appointed the chief executive on deputy chairman of the company fi finance director having joined 1st September 2008.
Previously having been chief executive Beazley in 2009.
Martin has he was fi finance director and he since 1986.
Andrew is a 25 years experience in the joined the board in June 2003. co-founder of Beazley Furlonge insurance industry with more Prior to that, he was UK chief Limited.
He has 33 years than half of those as a fi finance fi financial offi cer at ING and was experience at Lloyds.
He trained as a general deputy global chief fi financial insurance actuary before offi cer and global head of pursuing a career in the fi finance for the equity markets composite insurance sector division of ING Barings, having with Aviva and Zurich Financial held various fi financial positions Services.
His experience spans with ING Barings since January personal and commercial lines 1997.
He qualifi ed as a general insurance, the London chartered accountant with Market, life insurance and asset Coopers and Lybrand in 1987. management in both the UK and France.
Nicholas Furlonge Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Clive Washbourn Nicholas Furlonge aged 59 Jonathan Gray aged 56 is the Neil Maidment aged 47 is the Clive Washbourn aged 49 is is responsible for the risk head of the groups property chairman of the underwriting the head of the groups marine management of the Beazley division.
Jonathan has 34 years committee and has responsibility division.
He is a co-founder of of experience at Lloyds, joining for the political risks and experience in the marine Beazley Furlonge Limited, and Beazley in 1992.
He is an active contingency group and accident insurance industry and actively has 36 years experience at underwriter in his area of and life division.
Neil has 25 underwrites marine hull, marine Lloyds and is a non-executive expertise, open market years of Lloyds experience.
He liability and marine war risks.
director of the Lloyds Franchise commercial property risks.
joined Beazley in 1990 and is He is a member of the LMA Board.
He is also the Chairman the active underwriter for the Marine Committee, the of the Lloyds Community managed syndicates.
LMA Underwriting and the Claims Programme Management Board Committee and is the chairman and a director of the LMA.
He is of the Joint War Committee.
also responsible for marketing and ceded reinsurance.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew Andy Pomfret Gordon Hamilton Dan Jones Jonathan Agnew aged 68 is Andy Pomfret aged 49 was Gordon Hamilton aged 64 Dan Jones aged 58 retired in the chairman of the company.
appointed chief executive of retired as a senior audit partner 2003 as the vice-chairman for Jonathan was formerly a managing Rathbone Brothers Plc in 2004, in Deloitte & Touche LLP after Marsh, Inc. responsible for director of Morgan Stanley and having held the position of more than 30 years, principally non-North American operations, subsequently the chief executive fi finance director since 1999. involved with listed multi-national strategic planning, and mergers of Kleinwort Benson.
He has been Prior to that, he held positions company audits and major acquisitions, based in London.
the chairman of Limit plc, Gerrard at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co forensic assignments.
He is In 2006 he re-entered the Group plc, and Nationwide now KPMG and Kleinwort currently a non-executive director broking business as the chief Building Society.
of a number of companies executive for the broking chairman of Ashmore Global including the listed South African operations of Fred A. Moreton & Opportunities Limited, The group, Barloworld Limited, and Co. a Salt Lake City-based Cayenne Trust plc and LMS Capital is a member of the Financial regional fi financial services plc and is a senior independent Reporting Review Panel FRRP.
concern focusing on the western director of Rightmove plc.
a member of the Council of Lloyds and of Lloyds Market Board from 1995 to 1999.
George Blunden Padraic OConnor Vincent Sheridan George Blunden aged 57 was Padraic OConnor aged 60 is Vincent Sheridan aged 61 is appointed on 1 January 2010. currently chairman of the Irish currently chairman of the Truelife He retired as senior vice Stock Exchange, chairman of Group and a non-executive president and director from Hewitt Associates in Ireland and director of FBD Holdings Ltd. AllianceBernstein Ltd in a non-executive director of a He retired as Chief Executive of December 2009.
He had number of companies including Vhi Healthcare in 2008 and prior previously held positions in Union ACC Bank.
Between 1999 and to that was Group Chief Executive plc: SG Warburg Securities and 2002 he served as nonof the Norwich Union Insurance Seccombe, Marshall and executive chairman of ACC Group in Ireland for 10 years Campion plc.
Bank and prior to that he held from 1991 to 2001.
He is a a series of senior positions at past president of the Institute of NCB Group Limited.
Chartered Accountants in Ireland and a former Director of the Irish Stock Exchange.
