Performance by division continued We specialise in writing complex, difficult risks that brokers often find hard to place.
Our broker relationships are accordingly strong.
Jonathan Gray Head of property 251.2m Gross premiums written property We insure a large and diverse book of property business, ranging from mines, steel mills and major engineering Portfolio mix projects to UK retail jewellers and high value homeowners in the US and UK.
We led 62% of the business we underwrote at Lloyds in 2009 and took advantage of improving premium rates to grow our business in the US and internationally.
The combined ratio for the year was 103% 2008: 107%.
The benefits of our acquisition of First State and the benign catastrophe losses will emerge from 2010.
US admitted property 6% Engineering 4% Since the establishment of Beazleys property account in Jewellers & homeowners 14% Commercial property 63% 1992, we have grown our business organically and that Small property business 13% remains our preferred path.
But late in 2008 we were presented with an acquisition opportunity that was too Gross premiums written good to miss.
First State is one of the oldest and most 300 respected insurers of surplus lines commercial property 270 240 insurance in the US.
It was a business we knew very well, 210 having reinsured the portfolio for more than 15 years.
180 150 Negotiations proceeded swiftly and in April we were 120 delighted to welcome Judy Patterson and her highly 90 60 experienced team from First State to Beazley, forming 30 the core of a much enlarged surplus lines commercial 0 property business in the US.
Brokers and clients 2007 2008 2009 responded very positively to the acquisition, which significantly deepens our wholesale broker relationships in the US, particularly on the west coast.
In 2009, our US underwriters wrote $102.8m in surplus lines commercial property premiums, up from $9.8m in 2008.
com m Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Innovation is a subjective In London, Beazley is well matter.
What is very familiar known as a lead underwriter to one industry or country for some of the largest and may be refreshingly new most complex engineering elsewhere.
In establishing a projects, including the Laffan local presence in the US in refinery in Qatar.
However, 2005, Beazley anticipated less than 10% of the London that the approach to book relates to US risks.
The underwriting large scale risks focus of Colin and his team that had served it well for will be smaller scale projects Builders risk many years in London would that are not normally shown appear refreshingly new to London underwriters.
when applied to smaller The team will focus on scale risks in the US.
owners and contractors This anticipation proved engaged in construction correct and Beazley has in all areas of the US.
built most of its $371 million At present the team is business in the US in quoting on non admitted this way.
In the most recent risks for the account of example, Colin Rose, a Beazleys Lloyds syndicates.
senior underwriter on The team expects to be able Beazleys construction and to write admitted risks for engineering team in London, the account of Beazleys US moved to Chicago in insurance company from the November 2009.
He was beginning of the second joined by Tom Warner, a quarter of 2010. highly experienced US underwriter hired from Allianz Global.
In Singapore, the local construction and engineering Predicting rate changes in our business is never easy.
account that Byran Lee and his colleagues have been We expected at the end of 2008 that hurricanes Gustav building since 2006 continued to grow steadily.
The and Ike would push rates for catastrophe business up Lloyds market enjoys remarkable access to property substantially and this duly happened, but by April the risks from around the world, but there is some profitable upward momentum had stalled and rates flattened in business that never leaves the local market.
Byrans the second half of the year.
Our US underwriters team has secured a share of this business for Beazley.
therefore wrote less business than originally expected in the second half.
The same logic applies in the US where, with the acquisition of First State and the creation of a builders For the larger business that we access through Lloyds, risk capability, our business matured significantly in the environment was more benign.
Mark Bernacki, who leads our business in the US, able to take advantage of premium rate increases and his team can now offer brokers a broad suite of averaging 9% to grow our business.
We specialise in underwriting capabilities, including surplus lines and writing complex, difficult risks that brokers often find hard admitted commercial property: high value homeowners to place.
insurance: transportation and contractors equipment Our Lloyds construction and engineering team had a insurance: and builders risk.
Our admitted commercial difficult year as recession sapped demand for large property business, which we write for the account of our scale projects.
However we see great scope for the US insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. development of smaller scale business in the US, a made good strides in 2009, growing 45% to $23.7m.
market where the skills that Hugh Phillips and his team In common with other teams, we believe excellent claims have honed over many years are scarce.
In December, service is a key differentiator and we deliver it.
Across all Colin Rose from our London team moved to Chicago our business lines and geographies, Andrew Mitchell and to lead the development of our US construction and his claims professionals ensure that, when our clients engineering business, commonly known in the US as need is greatest, they can rely on Beazley.
We see significant growth potential in this line.
