Annual statement Our performance in 2009 was a testament to the success of our underwriters in identifying profitable opportunities and in resisting the temptation to pursue business where premium rates failed to keep pace with expected claims frequency.
Andrew Horton Jonathan Agnew Chief executive Chairman Beazley thrived in 2009, ending the year with a pre-tax Management Group Inc First State, a leading profit of 100.7m 2008: 87.2m on gross premiums underwriting manager specialising in surplus lines which rose 27% from 2008 to 1,115.5m.
Judy Patterson and her profits rose from 41.0m to a record 147.3m.
After highly experienced team at First State now form the core accounting for an increase in the value of the US dollar of our surplus lines commercial property team in the US, relative to sterling during the year three quarters of our which underwrote gross premiums of $93.9m in 2009. premium is denominated in dollars, our top line Capital raising deployed on premium growth in constant currency terms was 12.2%.
market opportunities For the fourth year in succession, we achieved a We saw an opportunity in 2009 to increase our exposure combined ratio of 90%.
to catastrophe exposed business at attractive premium The board is pleased to announce a second interim rates.
Substantial claims from the previous years dividend of 4.7p 2008: 4.4p final dividend, bringing hurricanes Ike and Gustav the former the third most the total dividend for the year to 7.0p, an increase of costly hurricane to insurers on record pushed up 6% over 2008. premium rates for catastrophe exposed classes of insurance and reinsurance business.
Our strong underlying profits in 2009 delivered a return on equity of 25% 2008: 8%, a testament to In the spring, we raised 150m of additional capital the success of our underwriters in identifying profitable through a fully underwritten rights issue and placing.
opportunities where these were to be found most $75.0m of the proceeds were used to acquire and frequently last year in the marine, energy and capitalise the First State business.
The balance was reinsurance markets, and in resisting the temptation used to increase our underwriting at Lloyds.
to pursue business where in our view premium rates As expected, premium rates increased substantially in failed to keep pace with expected claims frequency.
the classes of business we had targeted, with increases Our investment performance also recovered strongly, of 9% in our reinsurance business, 6% in our returning 56.1m following a loss in 2008.
This was commercial property business, and 27% in our energy accomplished whilst fide-risking the investment portfolio business.
We utilised our new capital by writing an moving a large portion of the portfolio into government additional 239.8m for the account of our reinsurance, bonds and government supported assets which should property and marine divisions.
Our marine division, which give us better protection against a severe market includes energy insurance, in particular had a banner downturn in future.
year, with gross premiums up 14% and a combined ratio of 74%.
Clive Washbourn, who leads the division, and During 2009 we began to see the benefit of two Paul Dawson, who heads our energy team, enjoy acquisitions.
Momentum Underwriting Management widespread respect as highly experienced lead Limited, a London-based underwriting agency which we underwriters among brokers at Lloyds, the oldest acquired in 2008, was rebranded as Beazleys accident and still the most important marine insurance market & life division and underwrote 43.2m in gross in the world.
In the US, we acquired First State Underlying profit comprises profit before income tax after the notional adjustment on foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
See detailed explanation in note 3b to the financial statements.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Diversification is beneficial to an insurer as long as it is Claims experience not accompanied by loss of focus or dilution of expertise.
In todays environment, adroit underwriting is not enough We are and are proud to be a specialist insurer.
to enable an insurer to win and hold on to profitable Across our business, we hire underwriters who really business.
As recession took hold, our clients became understand the risks which they are assuming and are as ever more value conscious.
Fortunately, our claims staff comfortable declining business as they are accepting it.
demonstrated the value of the Beazley product when it was needed.
For example, companies look to their Specialty lines remains our largest division, accounting professional and management liability insurers when for 43% of our gross premiums in 2009.
In 2009, they are the target of third party lawsuits.
Time and Adrian Cox and his team saw attractive growth again, our specialty lines claims team were able to opportunities in several areas whilst carefully managing show clients the value of having Beazley on their side.
the impact of recession on claims frequency in other parts of our book.
We continue to invest in high calibre claims professionals both in London and in the US.
Almost Recession planning was fundamental to the strong 92% uniquely among major insurers, we have no claims combined ratio achieved by specialty lines in 2009, but department: our claims professionals work seamlessly by no means all the lines in this account are exposed with our underwriters in multi-disciplinary teams.
A good example is data believe this helps deepen their client understanding and breach insurance, sometimes known as information their knowledge of the intent behind the insurance which security and privacy insurance.
Beazley has played a our underwriters provide.
leading role in the development of data breach insurance, which protects organisations handling Our claims experience in 2009 was as a whole very personally identifiable information credit card numbers, positive, with a 55% claims ratio 2008: 56%.
Across all social security numbers, health records, etc from the lines of business we released 67.2m 2008: 72.8m consequences of loss or theft of that information.
from prior year claims reserves.
While making these claims releases we still maintained our robust reserving Mike Donovan leads our technology, media and business approach, holding increased margins over actuarial services team which rode a powerful wave of demand for estimates to prior years.
This point is explained further data breach insurance, helping the team to grow gross in the financial review see page 36. premiums by 34% to 60.6m in 2009.
We believe we will continue to capture a substantial share of the Specialty lines business is sometimes assumed to growing demand for data breach insurance, particularly be long tail, meaning that the full extent of claims from healthcare providers and from retailers, largely from a risk will often only become apparent long after through our new flagship product, Beazley Breach the risk has been underwritten.
For our business, this Response.
To learn why, turn to page 29. is a misnomer.
We believe our specialty lines business is medium tail with claims having to be notified during the policy period and we normally have clarity on the cost of claims within five years of notification.
Beazley Annual Report 2009 11 Annual statement continued The consistency of our underwriting profits through recent years bears witness to the success of our cycle management strategy.
Our claims experience was not uniformly favourable in New investment management team 2009.
After a number of years of highly profitable We are an underwriting-focused business and the underwriting, our political risks and contingency group primary objective of our investment team is to ensure PCG incurred claims on trade credit risks, particularly that the success of our underwriters is complemented those supporting bank letters of credit in emerging by a balanced level of investment risk.
In the third quarter of the year we accordingly transferred the management of our investments to a increased our reserves to cover these and potential new and highly experienced team led by the founder future claims.
The negative impact on profit of increasing and CEO of the Falcon Money Management Group, these reserves in 2009 was 33m.
We have taken the Michael Perotti.
Beazley has a minority stake in Falcon, view that claims may continue at a high level into 2010 which will focus exclusively on the management of and these reserves provide for that eventuality.
Beazleys investments for its first two years before accepting third party mandates.
Taking a longer view, our political risks and trade credit account has been very profitable for Beazley since its The teams focus in the early months of 2009 was on inception in 1998.
The business is uncorrelated with our fide-risking our portfolio in order to provide confidence other lines and made particularly valuable contributions that any further turbulence in investment markets would to earnings in 2005 and 2008, years in which severe not impact on Beazleys ability to capitalise on hardening hurricane seasons depressed returns from other short insurance markets.
Falcon is now working to implement tail lines of business.
our investment approach of combining a core fixed income portfolio with a moderate allocation to capital Consistent underwriting profitability shows growth strategies through alternative investments.
the value of cycle management The consistency of our underwriting profits through After a disappointing 2008, our investments returned recent years bears witness to the success of our cycle a profit of 56.1m 2008: a loss of 25.8m equating management strategy.
Diversification plays an important to a 2.7% return, a satisfactory result for a portfolio part in this, but equally important is our underwriters which has a high proportion of sovereign guaranteed ability to respond quickly to opportunities and threats as securities.
In making these calls, our underwriters rely on their own experience and that of the company as a whole through previous cycles.
They are also supported by rich resources of proprietary and non-proprietary data.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Locally underwritten US premiums 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Surplus business Admitted business underwriters are part of cohesive global teams which Redomiciliation to Ireland write risks of different types and sizes in accordance In March 2009 we redomiciled our holding company to with the preference of brokers and clients.
Having reviewed our options, we concluded that London is a more attractive market for the larger and this move was in the best interests of our shareholders.
more complex risks, while the smaller and simpler risks Ireland gives us a strong regulatory environment, has the both admitted and non admitted are underwritten benefit of being part of the EU, and has a competitive locally.
But London-based brokers, with their strong and tax regime.
Our move resulted in a lower effective tax well established US connections, also have access to rate of 12% in 2009 2008: 26%, a net profit impact many attractive niche markets for smaller scale risks.
This rate included a one-off benefit of the For example, to launch our data breach insurance redomiciliation in 2009: our long-term effective tax product for US physicians in December we partnered rate is expected to be approximately 18%.
closely with a number of specialist Lloyds brokers.
US and other international expansion Elsewhere in the world, we have established small offices Lloyds remains our preferred place to do business but staffed by knowledgeable local underwriters, charged we recognise the desire and ability of brokers and clients with developing profitable niche business for the account to place some risks, in business lines which we already of our Lloyds syndicates.
In continental Europe, our know and like, in their local markets.
In the US in Paris office focuses on small scale professional liability particular, around 85% of the commercial lines insurance risks, while our Munich office profiled on page 27, market is not accessible from Lloyds because Lloyds which opened in October 2008, targets reinsurance is not licensed as an admitted insurer in most states.
business that would not normally find its way to Lloyds.
It was a desire to access this business which led us We are proud to be the first Lloyds-based insurer to to establish a local presence in the US in 2005 establish a reinsurance office in Munich, the home a presence that contributed $370.7m to our gross of Europes reinsurance industry.
Andreas Bergler, a premiums in 2009, up 38% from 2008.
Although former broker who heads our Munich office, has had strong, this growth rate was lower than we had expected, a successful first year, writing 4.7m in gross premiums.
primarily because premium rate rises on property business slowed in the second half of the year.
We run our Lloyds and local US business in a way which is designed to minimise channel conflict for the brokers we work with.
Our US underwriters and our Lloyds Beazley Annual Report 2009 13 US $m Annual statement continued strategy that can support a far larger flow of profitable Developing broker relationships business than we currently handle.
Our broker relations Wherever we do business, the quality of our broker initiative will help make this happen, but we are also relationships is fundamental to our success.
These exploring other ways to scale up our distribution.
We are relationships are fostered daily by interactions between aware that face to face contact with our underwriters as our underwriters and the specialist brokers who handle decision makers is a major attraction for many brokers in our preferred types of business.
We know that these the US, as it has always been in London.
Our distribution strong personal relationships are valued by our brokers strategy will reflect this.
because they ensure swift responses to clients needs Straight Answers is our marketing tagline in the US.
We also see growth potential through our Lloyds syndicates in continental Europe, where demand for However, as the scale and complexity of our brokers have focused professional liability insurance expertise is grown, we have identified a need for a more coordinated often strong.
approach to our relationships with many of our most important brokers.
We have sought to understand these Enhancing broker and client service brokers business development goals and, within our High quality underwriting and claims service are central target markets, position ourselves as the insurer which to what Beazley offers, but they cannot be delivered by can most effectively help them achieve their goals.
underwriters and claims staff alone.
As the company Andrew Beazley has led our broker relations initiative grows, the infrastructure which supports its growth must in 2009 with a small team including King Flynn, our adapt and develop.
David Marock, who was appointed head of broker relations in the US, and Chris Branch, chief operating officer in the summer of 2008, is our head of broker relations who also leads our responsible for achieving this, as well as for our talent accident and life team in the UK.
Both King and management function, ensuring that we recruit the best Chris are former brokers.
employees and give them the means to excel.
Future growth opportunities In 2009, we made two major investments in systems Looking ahead, we have ambitions to grow both at which will enhance our broker and client service.
At Lloyds we are underweight, Beazley Pro, our online trading platform for specialty relative to our overall scale, in a number of potentially lines in the US, came on stream in November, profitable lines.
We will never write for premium, generating immediate time savings and reducing the regardless of profitability, but where market conditions potential for errors in policy documentation.
Our new are favourable, we will be determined in our efforts to claims system, ClaimCenter, will support all phases grow our business.
of claims handling for all Beazley lines of business worldwide.
Both Beazley Pro and ClaimCenter were In the US, the worlds largest insurance market by far, delivered by Philippe Mazas, our chief information our future growth will be supported by a distribution officer, and his team on time and on budget.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements As we look back on 2009, the companys employees Risk management can take credit for a solid record of achievement in often We are proud of our record of 24 years of unbroken tumultuous markets.
Our business became more diverse, profit.
The expertise of our underwriters and the diversity and therefore more stable, with the growth of our non of our portfolio have clearly been important factors in casualty business.
The expertise of our underwriters in this, and a culture of strong risk management has played identifying profitable opportunities was apparent across a critical role.
In 2007 we became the first Lloyds our portfolio.
The attractions of Beazley as a dynamic insurer to be rated as strong for enterprise risk place to work were once again evident in our low staff management by Standard & Poors and even now are turnover throughout the organisation.
This is something one of only a handful of insurers and reinsurers so rated.
we will never take for granted, remembering that good Board update employees, like good clients, always have a choice.
In December 2009 we announced that Dudley Fishburn, Our vision is to become, and to be recognised as, the who had been a Beazley plc non-executive director highest performing specialist insurer.
In 2009, we took and chairman of the remuneration committee since many steps toward achieving this objective.
November 2002, retired from the board.
Wed like to take this opportunity to thank Dudley for his contribution to the group over the past seven years.
He has been Jonathan Agnew Andrew Horton succeeded as chairman of the remuneration committee Chairman Chief executive by Andy Pomfret who was first appointed as a nonexecutive director in November 2002.
Andy has 9 February 2010 been succeeded as chairman of the audit committee by Gordon Hamilton who was first appointed as a non-executive director in September 2006.
George Blunden has been appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2010.
He will be subject to re-election by shareholders at the companys annual general meeting in 2010.
George has been a non-executive director of our managing agency, Beazley Furlonge Limited, since 1993.
