Quick read continued Marine A growing and diversifying portfolio: Since Beazleys We participate in the insurance of establishment in 1986 and particularly since 2001 our approximately 13.5% of the worlds ocean-going tonnage and are the business has grown and diversified significantly.
This chart prominent leader of voyage and tow business in the London market.
We shows the growth of gross written premiums for all business insure 35% of the top 200 global oil managed by the group.
The group share of this premium and gas companies and are a major lead for upstream energy clients.
We was 82.5%, or 1,115.5 m, in 2009. have extensive experience insuring a wide variety of cargoes including project, fine art and specie.
com Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements Political risks & contingency Property Reinsurance Specialty lines In addition to traditional lines such Weve protected clients ranging from The reinsurance team specialises in Specialty lines comprises as contract frustration, expropriation Fortune 1000 companies to writing worldwide property professional liability and and credit, we insure a growing homeowners through 17 years of catastrophe: per risk: aggregate management liability risks number of businesses against natural and man-made catastrophes.
excess of loss and pro-rata business: underwritten for clients on both a terrorism and political violence.
More than 80% primary and excess basis in North In addition to the worldwide Our contingency team is one of the of our top 20 clients have reinsured America, Europe and around the commercial property business we strongest in the London market.
Our US clients are served both write at Lloyds, we also underwrite We specialise in event cancellation by our underwriters at Lloyds and by construction and engineering risks in Accident & life writing everything from weddings our local US-based underwriters, Singapore: commercial property risks With an experienced team of leading to world cups.
including our dedicated small both admitted and non-admitted underwriters who have been together business team that focuses on the locally in the US: as well as high since the early 1990s, our personal needs of smaller scale clients.
value homeowners risks in the US accident and specialty life business and UK.
is written on both an insurance and reinsurance basis and covers a number of niche classes, including sports disability.
The business was acquired by Beazley in 2008.
