Performance by division continued Our underwriters are expert at developing profitable niches and, where required, niches within niches.
Adrian Cox Head of specialty lines 480.4m Gross premiums written specialty lines The specialty lines division, led by Adrian Cox, is Beazleys largest division and includes many lines of Portfolio mix business that we have been underwriting continuously since the company was founded in 1986.
This experience paid dividends in 2009 as we achieved a 92% combined ratio in the face of market conditions that many insurers found very difficult.
We focus on two classes of insurance and reinsurance: professional liability and management liability.
We A&E 14% insure a wide range of professions, with particularly Healthcare 12% Lawyers 14% strong positions in the market for architects and Management liability 20% engineers, lawyers, hospitals, and technology Miscellaneous E&O 3% Technology media and business 14% companies.
In the US we insure both large and small Treaty 7% firms: outside the US we focus more on small and PE RoW 8% PE US 8% mid-sized clients.
Gross premiums written Our management liability book comprises both directors 500 and officers D&O insurance and employment practices 450 liability EPL insurance, in both of which lines we rank 400 as the leading underwriter of US risks in the London 350 market.
We insure both large and small clients out of 300 250 London and smaller clients locally in the US.
200 150 The market experienced a significant but short-term 100 dislocation early in 2009 as a number of major insurers 50 staggered under the weight of substantial investment 0 2007 2008 2009 losses and heavy losses from accounts exposed to the credit crunch, including financial institutions and guarantee business.
As a specialist insurer that had retreated from the financial institutions D&O market as it heated up in 2004 5, we were well positioned.
Our D&O business accordingly grew by 55% in the course of 2009, from 42.9m to 66.5m.
com m Quick read Annual statement Performance by division Financial review Corporate governance Financial statements businesses losing large insurance product in the only one call.
With the help of volumes of sensitive customer classic sense in other our legal and forensic experts data.
The hacking risk has words a commitment to pay we will decide whether the been well documented, but a sum of money in breach is potentially harmful equally significant losses prescribed circumstances to those whose data has been have resulted from malicious but a much broader solution lost or stolen and whether employees or simple to a complex threat.
To provide a TransUnion Interactive will Insurance has not often comprehensive breach arrange call centre services been seen as a satisfactory response service, we brought as well as providing credit Beazley Breach remedy for data breaches together a group of experts monitoring.
Response because while it addresses with the know-how to help If, despite all these the risk of third party lawsuits organisations tackle data measures, lawsuits do occur, Data breach insurance from aggrieved customers it breaches.
These included Beazley Breach Response often known in the jargon of does little to provide practical privacy lawyers to address also provides up $10m of the industry as network assistance to firms that have the legal requirements of a insurance coverage to protect security and privacy suffered a breach.
In most breach: forensic experts to our clients balance sheet.
insurance is a product that cases, the biggest risk that uncover what exactly Data breach insurance is has taken some time to firms run is reputational happened: notification now being cited by brokers as come of age.
In the United and a tardy or bungled specialists to print and mail the coming decades version States, by far the biggest response to a data breach letters to up to two million of employment practices market for the insurance, the can increase the reputational affected individuals: and liability insurance a once-infirst policies were damage enormously.
With TransUnion Interactive, a a-generation opportunity for underwritten a decade ago.
this in mind, Beazley leading consumer credit insurers to offer a meaningful Since then, awareness of underwriters developed a information company, to offer response to a major and the risk posed by data radically different approach free credit monitoring to each growing new risk.
In Beazley breaches has increased in 2009. notified individual.
Scarcely a day The result, Beazley Breach In the event of a breach, a has developed a solution goes by without headlines in specialty lines Response, is not an Beazley client need now make worthy of these expectations.
US newspapers about major An important growth opportunity for Beazley came in our solution see above.
The word solution is overused technology, media and business services TMB team.
in business, but in this case it is fully justified.
Mike Donovan leads our TMB team that rode a powerful In 2009 we announced we would enter the wave of demand for data breach insurance, often known environmental risks insurance market.
Environmental as network security and privacy insurance, in 2009. risks are complex and difficult to underwrite and have The teams gross premiums grew by 34% to 60.6m the potential to give rise to complex claims.
However, in 2009, a comparable growth rate to that achieved there is significant profit margin available for carriers by our A&E team in 2008. that succeed.
This is exactly the kind of business that Our underwriters are expert at developing profitable plays to our strengths.
We were delighted to welcome niches and, where required, niches within niches.
John Beauchamp, a highly experienced environmental Some niches are large: Jerry Sullivan, who leads our risks underwriter, to our team in the US.
Many existing architects and engineers A&E professional liability Beazley clients, both in the A&E arena and among our team, has turned a $3m book of business into a $72m property insureds, will benefit from this extension of book in four years.
Others are small: Evan Smith, who our capabilities.
is responsible for our miscellaneous healthcare book, We continue to invest in underwriting and claims talent is positioning Beazley as the go-to market for blood and on both sides of the Atlantic, including the talent we tissue banks in the US.
need to develop new business opportunities.
In London While our healthcare book which also includes major at the end of the year we welcomed John McNally, who US hospitals and long-term care institutions is relatively will help us build our representations and warranties protected from recessionary pressures, other lines are business cover that facilitates mergers and acquisitions more exposed.
In 2009, as in 2008, we continued to and Michael Rieger-Goroncy, who will help us develop mitigate the impacts of recession that we foresaw on our offering to larger firms outside the US.
two of our largest lines of business, A&E and professional liability for US lawyers and on our smaller EPL book.
A specialist insurer delivers value to clients and brokers in large measure by constant innovation.
We are proud of our track record of innovation, exemplified in 2009 by Beazley Breach Response, our flagship data breach Beazley Annual Report 2009 29
