Financial review | capital position Group structure Beazley plc Beazley Re Ltd Beazley Group Ltd Reinsurance Contract Beazley Underwriting Beazley Furlonge Beazley USA Corporate Member Managing Agency Management Capital Syndicate 623 Beazley Insurance Third party Beazley USA Company, Inc.
Admitted Insurance providers Service Company Syndicate 3622 Company: A Rated Syndicate 3623 Quota Share and Surplus Treaties Quota Share Syndicate 6107 Group structure During 2009 the group created a new holding company, Beazley plc, which is incorporated in Jersey and domiciled for tax purposes in Ireland.
A new Irish resident reinsurance company, Beazley Re Limited, was also established and the former holding company Beazley Group plc was renamed Beazley Group Limited.
The substantial bulk of the groups capital resources are now held in Beazley Re.
The group operates across both Lloyds and the US through a variety of legal entities and structures.
The main entities within the legal entity structure are as follows: Beazley plc group holding company and investment vehicle: quoted on the London Stock Exchange: Beazley Underwriting Limited corporate member at Lloyds supplying capital to write business through syndicates 2623, 3622 and 3623: Beazley Furlonge Limited managing agency at Lloyds which writes business through the groups five managed syndicates 623, 2623, 3622, 3623 and 6109 : Beazley Re Limited reinsurance company that accepts reinsurance premium ceded by the corporate member, Beazley Underwriting Limited: Syndicate 2623 corporate body regulated by Lloyds through which the group underwrites its general insurance business excluding accident and life.
Business is written in parallel with syndicate 623: Syndicate 623 corporate body regulated by Lloyds which has its capital supplied by third party Names: Syndicate 6107 sidecar syndicate writing reinsurance business on behalf of third party Names: Syndicates 3622 and 3623 corporate bodies regulated by Lloyds through which the group underwrites its accident and life insurance business: Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. BICI insurance company regulated in the US through the state of Connecticut.
Licensed to write insurance business in all 50 states: and Beazley USA Services, Inc. BUSA managing general agent based in Farmington, Connecticut.
Underwrites business on behalf of Beazley syndicates and BICI.
