Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year such as options, futures and contracts, if it is deemed that ended 31 December 2009. these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in the pursuit of its Business Review objectives.
It is the Boards policy that the aggregate exposure Principal activity and business review to such derivatives does not exceed 10% of the gross assets of The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Details of derivatives activity is given in the principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its trading Investment Managers Report on page 10 and in note 19 on subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company pages 47 to 54.
Although investments are principally in companies listed on Status of the Company recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its 10% of its gross assets in unquoted securities.
As at affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so as to 31 December 2009, the Company held three unquoted qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of section 842 investments, Australian Energy Corporation, Glencore Finance of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
The Company is also permitted to enter into accounting period for which the Company has been treated as stock lending arrangements.
approved as an investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended 31 December 2008.
It is the It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest Companys intention to continue to seek approval under section in any holding that would represent more than 10% of its gross 842 of ICTA.
assets at the time of acquisition.
In addition, while the Company may hold shares in other listed investment The Company is an investment company and can take advantage companies including investment trusts, the Board has agreed of section 832 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows an that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross investment company to disregard losses on the capital account assets in other UK listed investment companies.
when paying dividends out of the revenue account.
The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
Although The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the many investments are denominated and quoted in currencies provisions of ICTA.
other than sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy against fluctuations in exchange rates.
The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is contained within the ten largest investments on pages 11 and Continuation of the Company 12, the investments listing on pages 13 and 14, and portfolio As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for analysis on page 15.
Further information regarding investment the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual risk and activity throughout the year can be found in the General Meeting.
Investment policy Gearing The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the actively managed with the objective of maximising total form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be returns.
Up to 10% of the gross assets of the Company and its repaid at any time.
trading subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited the Group, may be invested in physical The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with metals.
No material change will be made to the investment the Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims to policy without shareholder approval.
be fully invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not exceed 15% of the Groups net assets.
At the balance sheet It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, date, gearing stood at 3.6% of shareholders funds.
For further which means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares details refer to note 14 on page 45. and physical metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or if the Investment Manager finds it difficult Performance to identify attractively priced opportunities for investment, then In the year to 31 December 2009, the Companys net asset value up to 25% of the portfolio may be held in cash or cash per share increased by 103.0% compared with a rise in the equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of HSBC Global Mining Index of 83.2% and the Companys share holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
price rose by 122.0% all percentages calculated in sterling Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 17 Directors Report continued terms with income and warrant proceeds reinvested.
from shareholders each year to buy back and issue shares.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 10 includes Principal risks a review of the main developments during the year, The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The together with information on investment activity within the Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing each Companys portfolio.
Results and dividends Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding The consolidated profit for the year was 597,135,000 2008: the investment strategy to fulfil the Companys objectives loss of 766,859,000 of which 8,714,000 2008: 9,831,000 is and monitoring the performance of the Investment revenue profit.
The results for the Group are set out in the Manager.
An inappropriate strategy may lead to Consolidated Income Statement on page 33. underperformance against the benchmark index.
To manage this risk the Investment Manager provides an The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of explanation of significant stock selection decisions and the 4.75p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2009 rationale for the composition of the investment portfolio.
The dividend will be paid on 28 April The Board monitors and mandates an adequate spread of 2010 to shareholders on the register of members at close of investments, in order to minimise the risks associated with business on 19 March 2010.
The cost of the dividend amounts particular countries or factors specific to particular sectors, to 8,444,000. based on the diversification requirements inherent in the Companys investment policy.
The Board also receives and Derivative transactions reviews regular reports showing an analysis of the Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the Companys performance against the HSBC Global Mining Investment Managers Report on page 10 and in note 19 on Index and other similar indices, including the performance pages 47 to 54. of major companies in the sector.
Key performance indicators Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and future At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of dividend growth will depend on the Companys underlying performance measures to assess the Companys success in portfolio.
Any change in the tax treatment of the dividends achieving its objectives.
Amongst others, the key performance or interest received by the Company including as a result indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and of withholding taxes or exchange controls imposed by performance of the Company over time and which are jurisdictions in which the Company invests may reduce the comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are level of dividends received by shareholders.
monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the level of income at each 2009 2008 meeting.
1 Net asset value 662.02p 331.39p Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment Share price 550.00p 252.50p 1 Discount to net asset value 16.9% 23.8% trust in accordance with section 842 of the Income and Revenue earnings per share basic 4.90p 5.64p Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
As such the Company is 2 Total expense ratio 1.4% 1.2% exempt from capital gains tax on the sale of its 1.
Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines.
Discount calculated on diluted NAV.
The Investment Manager monitors investment 2.
Operating expenses excluding interest costs and VAT written back as a % of average movements, the level and type of forecast income and daily shareholders funds.
expenditure and the amount of proposed dividends to ensure that the provisions of section 842 are not breached The Board monitors the above KPIs on a regular basis.
and the results are reported to the Board.
Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and ratios to understand the impact on the Companys relative Operational risk Like most other investment trust performance of the various components such as asset companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company allocation and stock selection.
therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent on the control systems of the Investment The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests of Manager and the Companys service providers.
The shareholders that shares do not trade at a significant discount security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing to their prevailing net asset value.
During the year the shares procedures, accounting records and maintenance of traded at a discount to NAV of between 9.4% and 24.7%, ending regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the effective the year at 16.9%.
To enable the Board to take action to deal operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and with any overhang or shortage in the market, it seeks approval monitored and an internal control report, which includes an 18 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc assessment of risks together with procedures to mitigate as an independent firm.
The principal shareholders of such risks, is prepared by the Investment Manager and BlackRock, Inc. are PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. Bank reviewed by the Audit & Management Engagement of America Corporation and, following the merger with Committee twice a year.
The custodian, The Bank of New Barclays Global Investors on 1 December 2009, Barclays PLC.
York Mellon International Ltd BNYM, a subsidiary of PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and Bank of America The Bank of New York Mellon and the Investment Manager Corporation are both US public companies.
also produce annual internal control reports which are reviewed by their respective auditors and give assurance BNYM is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYM fee regarding the effective operation of controls.
is payable at rates depending on the number of trades effected and location of securities held.
The custodian agreement is Resource risk The quality of the investment management subject to six months notice by either party.
team employed by BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited is a crucial factor in delivering good Appointment of the Investment Manager performance and the loss by the management of key staff The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of could affect investment returns.
The Investment Manager investment management services to the Company on an has training and development programs in place for its ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The employees and its recruitment and remuneration packages Board believes that the continuing appointment of the are developed in order to retain key staff.
Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed above, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Financial risks The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety of financial risks that include market As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the liquidity and credit risk.
In addition, it should be noted that Companys affairs, the investment process and the results the location of the companies in which the Company invests achieved to date.
The specialist nature of the Companys and shares of companies in the mining sector can prove to investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served by the be volatile and therefore present a greater degree of risk.
Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who have a proven Any unquoted investments in the Companys portfolio are track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
also subject to additional liquidity risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 19 on pages 47 to 54, together with a Change of control summary of the policies for managing these risks.
There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be affected by a change of control of the Company.
Future prospects The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The future Voting policy performance of the Company is much dependent upon the The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys success of the investment strategy and, to a large degree, on portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager, the performance of financial markets.
The outlook for the whose voting policy states: Company in the next twelve months is discussed in the Investment Managers Report on page 10. we will vote at all general meetings of companies in which our clients are invested, and it is our current intention to Investment management and administration extend this policy to all markets in which we invest as and BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited when practicable: BlackRock provides management services to the Company under a contract terminable on six months notice.
BlackRock we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to also acted as the Secretary and Administrator of the Company enhance shareholder value, and on routine issues where throughout the year.
BlackRock receives an annual we are supportive of a companys management: management fee of 1.3% of gross assets.
Where the Company invests in other investment or cash funds managed by we will vote against proposals which we believe may BlackRock, any underlying fee is rebated.
damage shareholders rights or economic interests: No penalty on termination of the investment management we will abstain on proposals which we feel unable to contract would be payable by the Company in the event that six support and believe would be against our clients intentions months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are no to oppose publicly: provisions relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
where we abstain or vote against we will normally inform BlackRock is a subsidiary of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly the company in advance of our intention and of the reasons traded corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating for our decision: and Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 19 Directors Report continued in all situations the economic interests of our clients will be Conflicts of interest paramount.
The Company has changed its Articles of Association to reflect the codification of certain directors duties arising from the Going concern Companies Act 2006 and in particular the duty for Directors to The financial statements of the Company have been prepared avoid conflicts of interest which became effective from on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the 1 October 2008. appropriate basis as the continuation vote, being an annual event, is considered to be a routine item, and the Companys The Board has put in place a framework for Directors to report assets consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest which it The Company is able to meet all of its liabilities from its assets believes has worked effectively during the year.
All Directors and income generated from these assets and the ongoing notified the Company Secretary of any situations where they expenses are 1.4% of the net assets.
considered that they had a direct or indirect interest, or duty that conflicted or possibly conflicted, with the interests of the Directors Company.
All such situations were reviewed by the Board and The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2009, all of duly authorised.
Directors were also made aware that there whom held office throughout the year under review and their remains a continuing obligation to notify the Company interests in the ordinary shares of the Company, are shown in Secretary of any new situation that may arise, or any change to the table below.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review all notified situations on an annual basis.
31 December 2009 1 January 2009 Directors Remuneration Report A W Lea 6,000 6,000 The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 24 and I C S Barby 25,000 25,000 O A G Baring 25.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to C A M Buchan 24,000 24,000 members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
G H Sage 12,000 12,000 Substantial share interests All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
No changes As at 12 February 2010, the Company had received notification to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 R of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr Barby and Mr Buchan, rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
who offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Barby has extensive experience of the investment industry and Mr Buchan has Holding % considerable knowledge of the mining sector worldwide, as Legal & General Group PLC 7,240,553 4.1 well as wider corporate finance and commercial experience.
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Accordingly, their re-election is recommended to shareholders.
Management Limited 7,217,730 4.1 0.4% held on behalf of clients.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the The Board is also aware that 5.6% of the Companys ordinary Companys business.
None of the Directors has a service share capital is held by BlackRock on behalf of discretionary contract with the Company.
No Director is entitled to and non-discretionary clients and staff, including 1.2% held compensation for loss of office on the takeover of the Company.
through the BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and ISA.
Directors indemnity Donations In addition to Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, The Company made no political or charitable donations during the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the the year.
provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any Payment of suppliers proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and judgement is given in their favour.
The Company has entered conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
into Deeds of Indemnity with Directors individually which are Suppliers of goods and services are generally paid within available for inspection at the registered office of the Company 30 days of the date of any invoice.
The Company has no and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
20 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Warrants asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This In March 2006, shareholders were issued with bonus warrants should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if on the basis of one warrant for every five shares held, shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price exercisable over a three year period.
3,844,373 warrants at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the were exercised on 28 February 2007, 20,867,250 relevant sale.
warrants were exercised on 29 February 2008 and 1,313 warrants were exercised on 27 February 2009 at a price In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue to of 439p per share, 478p per share and 565p per share, keep the matter of treasury shares under review.
Accordingly, of the 33,659,228 warrants issued, 24,712,936 were exercised and 8,946,292 lapsed.
Annual General Meeting The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming Share capital and share repurchases Annual General Meeting is important and requires your Full details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action on page 45.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys you should take, you should seek advice from your shares as at the date of this report are given in note 17 to the stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 63.
There are no financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and restrictions on the voting rights of the shares or on the transfer Markets Act 2000 as amended.
of shares, and there are no shares that carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company.
If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this document, together with During the year, the Company repurchased and subsequently any other accompanying documents, including the form of placed in treasury 556,800 ordinary shares of 5p each, proxy, at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the representing 0.3% of the called-up share capital excluding stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or shares held in treasury at the beginning of the year, for a total transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the consideration of 1,480,000.
At 31 December 2009, the purchaser or transferee.
Companys issued share capital was 177,762,242 ordinary shares, excluding 15,249,600 shares held in treasury.
The latest Resolutions relating to the following items of special business authority to purchase ordinary shares for cancellation or to be will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
held in treasury was granted to the Directors on 23 April 2009 and expires on 22 October 2010.
The Directors are proposing Resolution 8 Continuation of the Company as an investment that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the trust forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders authority that the Company shall continue in being as an The main objective of any buy back is to enhance the net asset investment trust.
value per share of the remaining shares and to reduce the absolute level and volatility of any discount to net asset value at Resolution 9 Authority to allot shares which shares may trade.
Although the Investment Manager The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do initiates the buy backs, the policy and parameters are set by so by shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
The Company authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an intends to raise the cash needed to finance the purchase of aggregate nominal amount of 482,529 which is equivalent to ordinary shares either by selling securities in the Companys 9,650,592 ordinary shares of 5p each, and represents 5% of the portfolio or by short term borrowing.
current issued share capital including treasury shares and 5.43% of the current issued share capital excluding treasury Treasury shares shares.
The Directors will use this authority when it is in the The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares best interests of the Company to issue shares for cash.
This Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual market purchase as treasury shares, rather than having to General Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may be held in earlier general meeting.
treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the ability to reissue Resolution 10 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity By law, Directors require specific authority from shareholders and providing the Company with additional flexibility in the before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for management of its capital base.
cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net Resolution 10 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 21 Directors Report continued cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in Act came into effect on 1 October 2009.
The Board is therefore treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata proposing to adopt new Articles to reflect these changes.
basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 482,529 which is equivalent to 9,650,592 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of The principal changes to be introduced in the new Articles are the Companys issued ordinary share capital including treasury as follows: shares.
Unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual a Liability of members the effect of the resolution to delete General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011. the provisions of the memorandum will be to remove the statement currently in the Companys memorandum of Resolution 11 Authority to buy back shares association regarding limited liability: the new Articles contain The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority an express statement regarding the limited liability of granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own shareholders.
The Directors will only consider repurchasing shares in the market if they believe it to be in shareholders interests and b Authorised share capital the requirement for a companys as a means of correcting any imbalance between supply and articles of association to state its authorised share capital and demand for the Companys shares.
for this to serve as a limit on the maximum amount of shares which may be issued has been removed with effect from Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, 1 October 2009.
The provision in the existing Articles relating to the maximum price which can be paid shall be the higher of i authorised share capital is being deleted.
Directors will still 5% above the average market value of the ordinary shares for need to obtain the usual shareholders authorisation in order to the five business days immediately preceding the date on allot shares, except in respect of employee share schemes.
which the purchase is made and ii the higher of the price Furthermore, from 1 October 2009 the Company is able to requoted for a the last independent trade of, and b the denominate its share capital by converting shares from a fixed highest current independent bid for, any number of ordinary nominal value in one currency to having a fixed nominal value shares on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors c Reduction in notice period for general meetings the notice are seeking authority to purchase up to 28,932,475 ordinary period for meetings at which special resolutions are shares being 14.99% of the issued share capital including considered has been reduced from 21 days to 14 days.
This authority, unless renewed at an earlier However, this has been subject to further changes which have general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of next years been implemented by the Directive.
The notice of general Annual General Meeting.
meetings clause had been broadly drafted to allow for changes imposed by the Directive.
Resolution 12 Deletion of the Companys Memorandum of Association d Change of name under the Act, the Company may change The Companies Act 2006 Act the Act significantly reduces its name by the members passing a special resolution and also the constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
by other means provided for in its articles.
The new Articles Under the Act the objects clause and all other provisions which therefore provide for the Company to change its name by a are contained in a companys memorandum are deemed to be resolution of the Directors.
contained in the companys articles of association by virtue of Section 28 of the Act, but the company can elect to remove e Chairmans casting vote pursuant to the Directive, a these provisions by special resolution.
Chairmans casting vote at general meetings is no longer effective, therefore these provisions are being removed.
Further, the Act states that unless a companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects are unrestricted.
This abolishes f Redeemable shares under the Act, the articles of the need for companies to have objects clauses.
For this association need not include the terms on which redeemable reason, the Board is proposing to remove its objects clause shares may be redeemed.
The Directors may determine the together with all other provisions of its memorandum which terms, conditions and manner of redemption of redeemable are treated as forming part of the Companys Articles of shares provided they are authorised to do so by the articles.
Association the Articles as of 1 October 2009.
The new Articles contain such an authorisation.
Resolution 13 Changes to the Companys Articles g Closing of the register with effect from 1 October 2009, Regulations implementing the EU Shareholder Rights Directive companies are no longer able to close their register, therefore the Directive in the UK came into force on 3 August 2009, the provisions allowing closure are being removed.
which amend the provisions relating to resolutions and company meetings in the Act.
In addition, the final stage of the h Stock under the Act, shares can no longer be converted to 22 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc stock.
Whilst existing stock can be converted to shares, such authority is not required in the articles.
Therefore, these provisions are being removed.
A copy of the proposed new Articles showing all the changes to the existing Articles will be available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office from the date of posting this document up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Audit information As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors in office at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and resolutions proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 18 February 2010 Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 23
