Directors Anthony W Lea Colin A M Buchan Chairman Aged 55, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He is Aged 61, was appointed to the Board in July 2005.
He is chairman of Standard Life Investments Limited and a chairman of The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund, a non-executive director of Standard Life plc, National non-executive director of BSI Group and The Office of Fair Westminster Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Trading, and a trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
He was the The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and The Fettes finance director of Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to Foundation.
He was Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg 2005, one of the worlds leading mining and natural resources before his retirement in March 2001. companies.
He was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds second largest gold producer, and Gordon H Sage fide Beers Investments SA.
Aged 62, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He is a director of Balfour Beatty plc.
He was an executive director of Ian C S Barby Rio Tinto plc until his retirement in 2001 and was deputy Aged 65, was appointed to the Board in December 2003. chairman of ERM Holdings Limited, an environmental He is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power consulting concern, until retiring in October 2006.
Opportunities plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive director of Pantheon International Participations PLC, Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and SR Europe Investment Trust plc.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until 2003.
Oliver A G Baring Aged 65, was appointed to the Board in November 2004.
He is executive chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and non executive chairman of First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as holding directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc and Ferrexpo plc, and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive and Independent of the Investment Manager.
The Board as a whole constitutes the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
16 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
