Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance from the lows seen only a few months earlier.
China led the The first half of 2009 saw a significant recovery for mining way with record imports of copper, iron ore and coking coal shares after the turbulence of 2008.
This upward trend taking advantage of the spare capacity created by the absence continued during the second half of 2009.
For the year to of developed world consumption.
Early into this stage some 31 December 2009, the Companys net asset value NAV and commentators feared that this demand might be artificial and share price rose by 103.0% and 122.0% respectively both driven solely by strategic reserve purchases, but this was percentages calculated in sterling terms with income and quickly dismissed as end consumption data supported the warrant proceeds reinvested.
In capital only terms the NAV import statistics.
The recovery trend continued into the second rose by 99.8% and the share price by 117.8%.
These figures half of the year with China breaking monthly import records for compare with the HSBC Global Mining Index, in sterling terms, both base metals and bulk commodities.
As the year drew to a which rose by 79.6% capital only and 83.2% total return.
close the earlier concerns about sustainability of demand from China had eased, market commentators began to focus on Mining share overview improving western world economic data and investors looked The year end rally in 2008 was in hindsight a sign that 2009 to increase their exposure to the sector.
How different the final was set to be a year of recovery for mining shares after the quarter of 2009 was to the equivalent period only twelve collapse in valuations from May through to November 2008. months before.
From the low of 2008 to the end of 2009, the Companys NAV has risen 165.4% and yet is still some 32.4% below the peak On the supply side, the mining companies exercised reached in May 2008.
It is hard to understand that valuations considerable discipline in response to the challenging for real assets such as mines could be so volatile and trade commodity price and financing conditions they were facing.
so far below replacement cost.
As demand collapsed, most mining companies delayed further investment into new capacity as well as closing existing capacity.
The rapid and aggressive production cuts allowed the BlackRock World Mining Trust plc - Undiluted NAV fide-stocking process to happen far quicker than most investors expected, further supporting commodity price recovery.
1,200 NAV per share undliluted 1,000 One of the more positive outcomes of the financial crisis for the Company has been the opportunity to take part in 800 financings of high quality companies on very attractive terms.
600 Whilst banks resumed lending money again, they did so on a reduced scale and with much more stringent terms.
This has 400 meant that companies within our sector have had to find other 200 methods of refinancing to strengthen their balance sheets.
The Company has been the beneficiary: the gearing facility was 0 used to underwrite equity placements by some of our existing Dec 05 Jun 06 Dec 06 Jun 07 Dec 07 Jun 08 Dec 08 Jun 09 Dec 09 holdings and we built up a portfolio of resource corporate debt.
This is mainly comprised of convertible bonds, giving us Throughout the year, the Company followed a strategy based potential equity upside, a fixed percentage coupon well above upon cautious optimism about the potential for commodities the Companys cost of debt and downside protection should the demand to recover.
Whilst confident in our long term view of global economy double dip.
In an environment where many strong commodity demand from emerging markets coupled companies in the sector have cancelled or cut their dividends, with, in some cases, severe supply-side constraints, we this has provided an alternative source of income for the recognised the need for caution given the continued vulnerable Company.
As at the end of December 2009, the Companys state of the global economy and the potential for further aggregate corporate debt position had a running yield on the negative shocks.
current investment value of 4.9%: this is despite the majority of positions trading at a significant premium to par as share When demand collapsed in the second half of 2008, we took prices have moved above conversion prices.
the view that this was more a liquidity event driven by the credit crisis rather than a fundamental change in the consumption patterns of the last few years.
As such we started the year fully invested in the expectation that share prices would rebound.
However, the Companys gearing was not utilised immediately as this would have reduced our flexibility to participate in corporate refinancings or other such attractive opportunities.
During the first half of the year, metals demand rebounded Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 5 Investment Managers Report continued Selected corporate refinancing activities during 2009 Company Date Security type Amount raised Rio Tinto July 09 Equity Corporate debt US$12,350m US$3,500m Xstrata March 09 Equity US$5,800m Teck Resources May 09 Corporate debt Equity US$4,225m US$1,500m Barrick Gold September 09 Equity US$3,500m BHP Billiton April 09 Corporate debt US$3,000m Anglo American April 09 September 09 Convertible bond Corporate debt US$1,700m u750m Glencore December 09 Convertible bond US$2,200m Vedanta June 09 Convertible bond US$1,250m Sources: Bloomberg and company reports.
Our largest and most recent convertible bond position is in Selected commodity price changes during 2009 Glencore Finance AG, a leading, diversified natural resources % change group with activities in mining, smelting, refining, processing over and marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and Price 12 months to % change agricultural products globally.
It has a 35% stake in Xstrata, 31 December 31 December average as well as a number of equity stakes in other commodities 2009 2009 2009 vs. 2008 producers.
We believe the convertible has the potential to Gold US$ troy oz 1,096 27.1 11.6 provide the Company with an attractive entry point into Platinum US$ troy oz 1,461 62.7 23.4 Glencore were it to list in the future, whilst providing the Nickel US$ tonne 18,477 70.8 30.4 Company with a good return if it were to remain private.
Copper US$ tonne 7,345 153.2 25.7 Obtaining exposure to Glencore is also not possible other Aluminium US$ tonne 2,207 51.8 35.0 than by investing in this security as the company is owned solely by the employees.
This position makes up 5.1% of the Zinc US$ tonne 2,569 129.4 11.5 Companys portfolio.
Lead US$ tonne 2,392 152.2 17.4 Uranium US$ lb 44.5 16.0 25.4 In summary the mining sector has recouped some, but far Potash US$ tonne 445 42.6 18.5 from all, of the losses endured during the 100 day sell off in Iron Ore lump 2008.
As demand recovered, commodity prices rebounded US$ dmtu 112 44.5 acting as a catalyst for investor confidence.
This in turn Coking Coal hard reopened the banking system allowing trade to flow again.
US$ tonne 128 57.3 Investor risk appetite has now returned and despite far from Thermal Coal US$ tonne 69 46.9 normal demand conditions the fear of mining sector Priced on annual benchmarks.
We remain cautious given the Sources: Datastream and Bloomberg.
uncertainties around the potential withdrawal of fiscal stimulus plans but are confident that even if demand for commodities is materially lower than short term expectations, the sector is Gold and precious commodities sufficiently well financed to survive another demand shock.
2009 was a year of celebration for most long term gold bulls, the Company included.
The price broke through critical resistance around US$1,000oz setting a new high of US$1,215oz in early December.
In addition, the gold price was the only metal price to average higher this year than last.
Finally, gold shares also started to perform well, having lagged the gold price during the last few years.
6 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc As a whole, gold companies made up 12.0% of the portfolio Precious metal prices with our largest gold holding still Buenaventura.
Key new positions are in IAMGOLD 1.2% of the portfolio, Newmont 1,400 2,500 Gold LHS Mining 1.0% both in the equity and also through a Platinum RHS 2,300 1,200 convertible bond, G Resources 0.4% and Randgold Resources 2,100 0.2%.
G Resources is a new gold company that was created 1,900 1,000 when it purchased OZ Minerals Martabe gold project in 1,700 Indonesia.
The Martabe mine is scheduled to commence 800 1,500 1,300 production early next year and, if recent exploration success 600 1,100 continues, we are optimistic of a significant extension to the 900 mines life.
400 700 200 500 The platinum price outperformed gold rising 62.7% in US Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 dollar terms but despite this our investments were a Source: Datastream.
significant drag on performance during the first half of the year.
Around three quarters of the worlds platinum is produced Investment demand has been key with jewellery demand still in South Africa, and in Rand terms the platinum price only rose weak following the slowdown in the global economy.
Investors 29.6% due to the appreciation of the Rand against the US have been attracted to gold as protection against a weakening dollar.
In addition, the producers were impacted by rising US dollar, protection against the potential future impact of power costs, union demands for significant wage increases and governments quantitative easing policies on inflation and as a a higher level of work stoppages related to safety issues.
The safe haven asset that offers significant diversification benefits.
availability of finance for new platinum projects has been Central Bank activity has also taken centre stage.
In April, hampered not only by the aforementioned factors but also by China announced that it had increased its gold reserves by over the financial crisis.
This has resulted in significant delays to 400t to 1,054t, a 61% increase in its holding.
This was followed many projects that had been expected to enter production this shortly by a new European Central Bank Gold Agreement in year and next.
Taking all of this into account, we think 2010 is which the annual sales cap was reduced from 500t to 400t and likely to be a much better year for the platinum holdings as is inclusive of any IMF gold sales.
In November, India production remains constrained and automotive manufacturing announced that it had purchased 200t of gold from the IMF, seems to be showing tentative signs of recovery.
which came as a surprise to the market who had expected China to be the likely buyer of the 403t the IMF had proposed Current platinum holdings include Impala Platinum selling.
It is likely that 2009 will prove to have been a year of 4.7% of the portfolio, Anglo Platinum 1.6%, Aquarius net purchasing for Central Banks globally a huge shift in Platinum 1.1% both the equity and the convertible and strategic direction and one that should be very supportive to Platmin Mining 0.2%.
During the year we accepted a bid for the gold price.
our holding in Ridge Mining from Aquarius Platinum and used the proceeds to add to our platinum exposure.
On the corporate front there was considerable news.
Finally, after years of pressure from shareholders, the new CEO at Silver investments benefited from a 57.5% increase in the silver Barrick was able to persuade the old guard to close the hedge price, in US dollar terms.
Fresnillo, the largest silver position book.
Barrick is the last of the major producers to remove at 3.1%, closed the year up a massive 244% as it not only painful hedge positions initiated over two decades earlier when recovered from an oversold position at the end of 2008 but also the gold price was significantly lower than today.
Whilst delivered on its production and profit guidance.
hedging itself is not necessarily a bad thing, the effect of rising costs and poorer than expected growth delivery by the Rough diamond prices recovered over the year but still remain industry has meant that even without a rising gold price the depressed as demand recovery from the US, the worlds hedging experience would have been an extremely negative largest diamond market, remains subdued.
Our exposure to one for investors.
Other activity centred on assets changing diamonds is focused on three companies: Gem Diamonds hands between companies as they positioned themselves for 0.6%, Harry Winston Diamond 0.5% and Lucara Diamond the higher price environment.
Lucara is a new position following the purchase by the Ashanti which sold its share of the Boddington mine to company of the AK6 kimberlite in Botswana from DeBeers.
Newmont allowing them to use the proceeds to continue unwinding their hedge book and share the purchase of Base metals Moto Gold Mines with Randgold Resources: Eldorado Base metals were key beneficiaries of Chinese restocking, completed the purchase of Sino Gold, the Australian listed helped along by Chinas State Reserve Bureaus strategic Chinese gold miner: and Barrick and Goldcorp are competing purchases of copper, zinc and aluminium in the early part of for the El Morro copper-gold project in Chile.
the year and thereafter end user demand.
For much of the Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 7 US$ oz US$ oz Investment Managers Report continued year, the market to and froed about whether or not Chinese whether through the restarting of production or through metal demand was sustainable and whether it was the result of real released from inventories, we are relatively cautious on end-user demand or speculation.
It was most likely a bit of aluminium and had only 2.5% of the portfolio exposed to both, but with a commodity intensive stimulus package, strong aluminium producers 4.5% at the end of 2008.
GDP growth and prices well below what they had been the year before, China took advantage of lower prices by importing Zinc and nickel also enjoyed a recovery in 2009 with the zinc record quantities of many commodities, particularly copper.
price up 129.4% and the nickel price up 70.8% in US dollar terms.
Both commodities look to be in surplus in the near In the latter half of 2009, despite rising base metal inventories, term, although zinc fundamentals do look a little more prices have continued to edge higher.
This is generally thought interesting on a three to five year horizon.
The Companys zinc to have been the result of financial players returning to the exposure is now predominantly in Nyrstar 0.9%, a smelting commodities space playing the global recovery story or company that was created through the merger of Umicore and increasing exposure to real assets as protection against Zinifexs smelting businesses in 2007.
A change in corporate possible inflation.
In the case of aluminium, it is rumoured strategy has meant that the company is now seeking to move clever financial manoeuvring by some key participants in the upstream to secure concentrate supply to their smelters.
At aluminium market has meant some of the metal reported in the year end, exposure to pure nickel producers has been exchange inventories is in fact tied up under contracts and not reduced to less than 1% of the Companys assets following the available to the spot market.
sale of the holding in Eramet.
However, the Company has considerable exposure to nickel through its holdings in Copper arguably has the best supply and demand diversified mining companies.
fundamentals of the base metals.
As the core infrastructure metal, demand from industrialising and urbanising emerging Energy commodities markets is strong and likely to remain so over the coming The uranium price has been less volatile than other years, but there is a lack of significant supply side growth.
commodities during and following the financial crisis.
This is These drivers are key to the large exposure to copper predominantly due to the small spot market and a lower level producers in the Company.
At the year end, the Company had of speculative involvement.
Uranium prices drifted down over 16.1% of the portfolio exposed to copper producers compared the year to close down 16.0%.
The long term fundamentals for with 8.2% at the end of 2008.
The largest position is in First uranium still appear compelling, as increased demand is likely Quantum Minerals 4.2% of the portfolio both equity and to be driven by the government-led move to diversify into convertible which rose an incredible 377.8% over the year.
clean energies and the potential for a supply shortfall.
In the This company had a roller-coaster year, with the confiscation near term, however, strong supply growth from Kazakhstan of its Kolwezi project by the government of the Democratic and a weak global economy have meant the short term drivers Republic of Congo and the acquisition of the Ravensthorpe are less clear.
The Companys only exposure to pure uranium nickel mine from BHP Billiton.
Whilst it is our expectation they companies at the end of December 2009 was UEX 0.5%.
will get Kolwezi back at some stage, this move into nickel appears to be part of a strategy to diversify away from Africa Thermal coal prices were victim to the fall in demand caused which illustrates that even those companies that have been by the significant slowdown in the global economy.
Contract successful in growing production in sub-Saharan Africa are prices were settled down 46% in the early part of 2009. nervous of the risks associated with operating in those However, with accelerated growth from China and other countries.
Another holding exposed to this part of the world is emerging markets, the coal market in the Pacific Basin began Katanga Mining.
The company has been through an exhaustive to tighten and spot coal prices have moved higher as a result.
restructuring and we hope that with the benefit of a robust At the time of writing, news has been released that Xstrata copper price the company will be able to unlock the value from have settled thermal coal prices at US$85t with one Japanese their copper projects without any additional capital from customer, up 21% compared to the 2009 benchmark price.
Other key contributors to the return from copper This is better than market forecasts and bodes well for exposure were Freeport McMoRan 201.9%, Cerro Verde thermal coal producers in 2010.
Over the year, the Company 143.6% and Antofagasta 149.7%.
sold its holding in Bumi Resources following concerns over the companys corporate governance.
Exposure to thermal coal is Aluminium was the worst performing base metal, up only through large holdings in the diversified mining companies that 51.8% in US dollar terms.
In early 2009, the industry sharply are themselves some of the largest coal miners in the world.
cut production as the aluminium price fell well below the marginal cost of production.
It is estimated that around 18% of Diversified mining companies and industrial the worlds production was off-line in March 2009.
However, as commodities prices rose over the second half of the year, production swiftly As the largest consumer of bulk commodities in the world, came back on and by November around half of the curtailed Chinas strong economic growth and robust steel demand had capacity had been restarted.
Given the potential excess supply, a positive influence on iron ore and coking coal prices in 2009.
8 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc As benchmark prices settled down 44% for iron ore in the first also the prospect of an iron ore joint venture with BHP Billiton half of 2009, following the slowdown in the global economy, that has the potential to release at least US$10 billion in China imported record tonnages as they took advantage of synergies, an agreement with the Mongolian government that lower prices to substitute lower quality domestic supplies for makes the go-ahead of the world class Oyu Tolgoi copper higher quality Australian and Brazilian ore. With a lack of deposit more likely, and a new chairman.
Perhaps the main demand from the western world, Chinese demand grew to negative would be a rather soured relationship with the well over half of the sea-borne iron ore market.
Spot prices Chinese as Rio Tinto walked away from a proposed deal with closed 2009 over 80% higher than the benchmark set in May Chinalco which possibly contributed to four employees being as the western world began to recover, demand from China arrested in China on charges of industrial espionage.
continued at near record levels, and export tariffs were imposed on Indian iron ore.
This is very encouraging for 2010 BHP Billiton had a relatively quiet year.
It did achieve its main benchmark settlements.
aim of merging their iron assets with Rio Tinto: however, given their strong balance sheet and the distress the industry was in Exposure to iron ore is for the most part achieved from during the first quarter of 2009, one could argue they did not holdings in the large diversified mining companies.
take full advantage of their relative balance sheet strength.
The However, the Company has a direct investment in the speed at which the industry recovered was clearly a surprise to emerging Australian producer Atlas Iron and prior to the management, as it was to most market commentators.
We year end we invested in a private iron ore development watch with interest to see how the company will put its growing company, Jumelles.
The company owns an iron ore exploration cash balance to work.
project in the Republic of Congo which is being joint-ventured with Xstrata via an earn-in agreement.
Jumelles plans to Xstrata on the other hand has been extremely busy.
Following list in London later this year following the results of a a rescue rights issue and a US$2 billion asset deal with pre-feasibility study.
Glencore for the Prodeco coal mine, the company then proposed a merger with Anglo American.
The terms of the deal Coking coal demand from China was also strong as Chinese were rejected as inadequate but Anglo shareholders should be production of steel continued to grow, reaching a rate of 600 thanking Xstrata for triggering change within the company.
million tonnes per annum by the end of 2009.
The demand for Anglo now has a new chairman, they have or are seeking to imported coking coal was supported further by the closure of a divest non core assets and there seems to be an improved number of mines due to safety issues in the Shanxi province, approach to capital reinvestment.
Xstrata can revisit the deal the main coking coal producing region in China.
The transition later this year and it will be interesting to see if Anglo by China to become a large importer of coking coal means that shareholders believe management has done enough to keep supply deficits are highly likely in the coming years, as the the company independent.
supply side appears to be constrained in its ability to bring on new supply.
This bodes well for further price recovery Vale was also caught up in the eye of the financial crisis not especially for the higher quality products out of Australia.
The because of their balance sheet, which was supported by an Companys exposure to coking coal is predominantly through earlier equity placing, but by key customers not performing on the diversified mining companies, particularly Teck Resources iron ore supply contracts.
This forced Vale to redirect sales into 5.1% of the portfolio and some smaller purer play companies, China that would otherwise have gone into Europe and this such as Aquila Resources 0.6% and Coal of Africa 0.1%.
Since the early part of the year, Vale seems to have settled with customers and Chinas influence has been increasingly felt in the mining volumes to Europe are now recovering to more normalised industry in 2009.
Not only is it now the largest customer, levels.
Vale was also active during the financial crisis whilst but it is also the marginal buyer of assets in the sector.
others stood on the side lines.
The company managed to pick The most well reported example was the potential deal up additional iron ore production in Brazil and expand into the between Rio Tinto and Chinalco, from which Rio eventually potash business, when they purchased assets sold by Rio Tinto walked away.
However, there have been a number of other as part of their debt reduction plan.
smaller successful acquisitions such as the purchases by China Investment Corporation of 17.2% of Teck Resources, one Outside of the major diversified mining groups, the Company of the worlds largest coking coal producers, and 15% in Noble held exposure to a number of mid size companies such as Group, a leading commodities trader.
Vedanta and African Rainbow Minerals.
These companies had similar share price performances during the year, as they The major diversified miners continued to make life interesting recovered from the financial crisis, but of the two only African in 2009.
Rio Tinto has probably had the most exciting year, Rainbow Minerals was able to get by without a large entering 2009 with a heavy debt burden and the real risk of refinancing to keep the banks at bay.
default, but leaving it with a healthy balance sheet following a rights issue and the sale of some non-core assets.
There is Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2009 9 Investment Managers Report continued Derivatives activity We also have great hopes for the new investments in Glencore The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives and Jumelles.
The future of these investments should become contracts with virtually all the activity focused on selling either clearer during the year and we hope that shareholders puts or calls in order to increase or decrease position sizes.
recognise their potential within the Company.
These derivative positions, which are small in comparison with the size of the Group, usually have the effect of obliging us to Evy Hambro & Catherine Raw buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited During 2009, we focused on writing short dated calls in order 18 February 2010 to reduce some of our larger positions.
The premia generated by such option writing enables us to maximise the potential exit price from a position.
At the end of 2009 we had no derivatives positions in the portfolio.
Gearing At 31 December, the Company had gearing amounting to 42.0 million.
This has been drawn down against the higher yielding mining company corporate debt portfolio.
Gearing, which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities.
Outlook and strategy for 2010 After the strong recovery in both metal prices and equity valuations in 2009, it is easy to conclude that 2010 will be a less exciting year.
However, we would argue that the lows were more a reaction to the state of the banking sector rather than a change in the long term drivers of commodities demand.
In fact much of the share price recovery can be ascribed to valuations moving back to levels that reflect the true cost of replacing assets.
In addition, with commodity prices at higher levels than most management teams expected, cash generation will be in excess of many companies requirements.
We expect this to result in further M&A activity as companies look to reinvest this into existing projects rather than build new capacity when demand has not fully recovered.
China and other emerging markets should continue to positively support commodities demand given their higher rate of forecast economic growth.
In fact it would not surprise us if their governments were to take action to prevent overheating.
We are generally optimistic over a continued OECD recovery, but the potential for negative shocks to the sustainability of this recovery is still an area of concern, as this could have a significant influence on potential restocking of metals inventories by manufacturers which still remain at historical lows.
At the time of writing, the Company has built up significant exposure to producers of iron ore, coking coal, thermal coal, copper and platinum.
We expect producers of these commodities to benefit from strong pricing and hope they are able to turn this into healthy earnings momentum.
Gold prices remain well supported by the limited supply growth and the scope for reduced Central Bank disposals.
10 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
