Business Review 27 We believe it is essential that share ownership is widely distributed amongst BlueBay employees.
During the course of the year, the EBT Regulatory capital Dividends purchased shares at a cost of 6.0 million The Group has been in compliance with, It is the intention of the Directors to EBT and SIP 2008: 32.4million, which are and maintained a comfortable excess over, recommend to the Annual General Meeting disclosed under Own Shares in the Group the minimum regulatory capital requirements to maintain the payment of a final dividend Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity at all times during the year.
of 4.8 pence per share to all shareholders on page 60 of the Financial Statements.
on the register as at 6 November 2009.
Details of the awards made during the course Cash flow This will bring the total dividend per share of the year and the balance of shares that Our business continues to be cash generative.
for the financial year to 6.5 pence per were still to be awarded at 30 June 2009 The cash position at 30 June 2009 was share and represent dividend payments of are disclosed in notes 21 and 23 of the 62.3 million, an increase of 40.7% from approximately 12.4 million or approximately Financial Statements.
As the Group Cash 81.2% of the normalised pre-exceptional Flow Statement shows on page 61 of the profit after tax for the year.
During the financial year, the Group Financial Statements, cash generated from recognised an after tax profit of 12.0 million operations decreased by 26.4% during the Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend and recorded dividends of 12.2 million.
Corporation tax paid will be paid on 4 December 2009.
Retained earnings increased from 43.4 during the year decreased from 11.1 million million at 30 June 2008 to 47.9 million in the year to 30 June 2008 to 8.2 million Accounting standards and policies at 30 June 2009. in the year to 30 June 2009.
The Board and Audit Committee review and update, where appropriate, the Groups Capital management policy The cash used for financing activities was accounting policies and disclosures.
The BlueBay intends to use its capital primarily used for the purchase of Own Shares by Groups principal accounting policies are to support the growth of the business and the EBT and the SIP for 6.0 million and for detailed in the Financial Statements section to provide it with a cushion to shield it from the payment of dividends of 11.7 million.
The preparation of the adverse market conditions.
In order to Financial Statements in accordance with determine its primary capital requirements, Returns to shareholders IFRS requires management to exercise its BlueBay uses multi-year financial models Total share return is measured as the change judgement in the process of applying the to determine the capital requirements of in value of a share plus the value of the Groups accounting policies.
The areas where its anticipated growth.
We also develop dividends paid, assuming that the dividends a higher degree of judgement or complexity a number of potential adverse scenarios are reinvested in the Companys shares on arise or areas where assumptions and in order to determine their effect on various the date on which they were paid.
For the estimates are significant are: the valuation financial measures, including the Groups financial year to 30 June 2009, this represented and amortisation of intangible assets: capital base.
This enables us to determine a return of 6.1%.
This compares to a return estimating the future liability for bonuses the amount of the capital that should on the FTSE 250 Financials Index of -22.4% and other employee incentive schemes, the be retained in the business for prudential for the same period.
For the period from the determination of the worldwide provision purposes.
Once this primary objective has date of admission of BlueBay to the Official for income taxes and estimating the provision been met, we intend to use available List of the UK Listing Authority to 30 June for surplus premises based upon discounted distributable reserves for purposes such as 2009, BlueBay shares generated a total future cash flows.
For further detail refer to paying dividends to shareholders, funding shareholder return of -16.5% which compares page 63 in the Financial Statements section.
our equity incentivisation programme the to a return on the FTSE 250 Financials Index EBT and the SIP as discussed above and of -41.2% for the same period.
providing seed capital for new funds.
Over time, the Directors intend to pursue a dividend policy which takes into account the profitability of the business, its capital requirements and an appropriate level of dividend cover.
They currently anticipate paying out between 50% and 75% of the profit for each year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders.
