30 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors Hans-Jrg Rudloff Terence Eccles Tom Cross Brown Alan Gibbins 1 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Senior Independent Independent Director Independent Director 1 2 3 Director Hans-Jrg Rudloff was appointed Terence Eccles was appointed Tom Cross Brown was appointed Alan Gibbins was appointed Chairman of the Company on non-executive director of the non-executive director of the non-executive director of the 3 July 2001.
He is also Chairman Company upon listing on the Company upon the Companys Company on 5 November 2007. of Barclays Capital and of the London Stock Exchange on listing on the London Stock He has extensive experience of International Capital Markets 22 November 2006.
Until 2003, he was public company reporting and Association ICMA, chairing currently non-executive director Chief Executive Officer of ABN financial services spanning its Compensation Committee.
of The Paragon Group of AMRO Asset Management and 35 years with Price Waterhouse He is Vice Chairman of Novartis, Companies PLC.
He was formerly prior to joining ABN AMRO Asset and  LLP, one of the world's largest Vice Chairman of JPMorgan Management in 1997, he was having been a Partner since pharmaceutical companies and Cazenove, having previously Chief Executive Officer of Lazard 1985 and an Audit and Business sits on the Chairman's Committee, been Vice Chairman of Brothers Asset Management.
Assurance Partner until June Compensation Committee and Investment Banking at JPMorgan He is currently non-executive 2006.
He qualified as a chartered Audit Committee.
Hans-Jrg Chase, following the merger Chairman of Pearl Assurance plc, accountant in 1974.
His outside joined Rosneft, Russia's largest between Chase Manhattan and National Provident Life Limited, interests include Membership state controlled oil company and JPMorgan.
He started his career NPI Limited, London Life Limited of Council and Chairman of became Chairman of the Audit at JPMorgan in 1970 and has and Just Retirement Holdings the Audit Committee of Queen Committee.
He is also a Board worked in JPMorgans London, plc.
He is also a non-executive Mary, University of London, Member of the Thyssen New York and Hong Kong director of Pearl Group Limited non-executive director of Bornemisza Group TBG and offices.
During his career, he and of Artemis Alpha Trust plc.
NASDAQ OMX Europe Limited sits on the Advisory Board advised on numerous transactions, and he is a trustee and the of Landeskreditbank Badenspecialising in the European Treasurer of Emmaus Medway.
Wurttemberg and the Beirat financial services industry.
He is Chairman of Marcuard SA and President of ABD Capital SA, a family investment company and also sits on the Board of New World Resources N. V, Europe's largest coal mining company.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman Directors Review 31 Hugh Willis Mark Poole Nick Williams Alex Khein Chief Executive Officer Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Hugh Willis is one of the Mark Poole is one of the Nick Williams was appointed Alex Khein is Chief Operating co-founders of the Company co-founders of the Company Chief Financial Officer of the Officer of the Company with and has been a director and and has been a director and Company in October 2001 and responsibility for Operations, Chief Executive Officer of the Chief Investment Officer of an executive director of the Risk and Performance, IT and Company since inception.
Treasury and was appointed He spent eight years at He spent several years at Prior to this he spent 15 years at an executive director of the JPMorgan, latterly as Co-Head Credit Suisse First Boston and Goldman Sachs, latterly as Chief Company on 1 November 2006. of its European Credit Arbitrage JPMorgan, latterly as Co-Head Financial Officer of Goldman He joined the Company in June Group.
He has subsequently of its European Credit Arbitrage Sachs Asset Management 2004 as Head of Structured held senior positions within the Group.
He previously served Products before taking up the Global Credit Arbitrage Group of senior positions within the Global as Chief Financial Officer and was role of Chief Operating Officer Kleinwort Benson and the Fixed Credit Arbitrage Group of a member of the Management in October 2005.
Previously he Income Management Groups of Kleinwort Benson and the Fixed Committee of Goldman Sachs & spent seven years at Morgan both Banca della Svizzera Italiana Income Management Groups Co Bank, Zurich.
He qualified Stanley where he was an BSI and Daiwa Securities Trust of both BSI and DSTB.
as a chartered accountant with executive director within the and Banking DSTB, London.
