28 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate responsibility report The Board and management of BlueBay recognise that through its actions, the Company has an impact on its people, its marketplace, the community and the environment.
In pursuing our business activities, we have a responsibility to minimise the impact of these activities on the environment and to treat our employees, clients, business associates and the communities in which we work as long-term partners.
Employees In order to be successful in our business, we need to recruit and retain the best professionals in the marketplace to fill each of the positions we have at BlueBay.
We have a diverse workforce and as at 30 June 2009, we employed 211 permanent employees from 23 different nationalities in a ratio of 2 1 approximately 3 male: 3 female.
We aim to ensure that all employees benefit from a working environment that positively contributes to their wellbeing.
We have adopted employment policies aimed at promoting equal opportunities and tackling and preventing harassment or discrimination.
Our clients place a high level of trust in us and we recognise both the responsibility this brings and the resulting demands on our people.
We acknowledge that to continue to be effective we must provide the necessary support and development for our employees.
Appropriate training is made available to employees to ensure they maintain and develop their professional abilities.
In addition, constructive feedback is provided to employees and performance objectives agreed through the annual appraisal process.
Business Review 29 It is important for all of us to participate Our dedicated compliance team is involved Community in the success of BlueBay and therefore a at all stages of marketing, including reviewing During the course of the year, we made majority of permanent employees have our promotional and sales literature, providing a charitable contribution of 2,000 to direct or indirect stakes in the equity of the training to promote better understanding CLIC Sargent which cares for children with Company.
For the compensation year ending of the regulatory framework, ensuring that cancer.
We also sponsored those employees in December 2008, deferred awards were anti-money laundering regulations are that participated in the annual JP Morgan made to certain employees which vest over adhered to and investment mandates are Chase Corporate Challenge where monies a three-year period either into BlueBay equity managed in accordance with applicable are raised for the Sports Aid charity.
or into fund shares managed by BlueBay.
These awards help us to align our interests During the course of 2009-10, we will look with those of our shareholders or of our Client and distributor relationships into opportunities to enable the Group fund investors.
and communication and its employees to contribute to the We have established a dedicated team of wider community.
We recognise our health & safety obligations client relations managers whose principal to everyone who either works in or visits objective is to be the first point of contact for Environment our premises.
Hugh Willis, Chief Executive all investor enquiries including the provision We are committed to limiting and ultimately is responsible for health & safety, assisted of clear and concise investment reporting, reducing the impact of our business on by the Head of our Human Resources conducting regular client review meetings the environment.
department and a fully qualified professional and ensuring investors are kept up to date external advisor.
Furthermore, Considerable care was taken in evaluating the we invite both existing and prospective design of the building we occupy in London Marketplace clients to conduct due diligence visits with in order to limit wasteful use of water and BlueBays funds and products are us to review our investment teams and electricity.
We anticipate that in future years, predominantly distributed to institutional operational infrastructure.
quantifiable information will be available investors globally as well as via a number which will provide a better understanding of third party distributors.
These relationships Product development of the success of this undertaking.
are important to us and we consider that Our strategy to maintain our position as one establishing a reputation for reliability, of the leading fixed income credit specialists We try to minimise the volume of waste we integrity and transparency are key ingredients in Europe is supported by innovative product produce by operating a procurement strategy to our success.
New products are launched aimed at reducing the generation of waste following extensive internal due diligence and recycling where it is practicable to do so.
Compliance culture and processes and consultation with our clients to ensure We believe that the compliance culture that they are appropriately designed.
should be embedded within the organisation from how we communicate and promote our products through to managing clients investments.
