62 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Significant Accounting Policies BlueBay Asset Management plc the Company is a company c Changes to existing IFRS standards and interpretations IFRIC interpretations and amendments to existing standards that incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The Group Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2009 became effective during the year have been applied by the Group.
None of the Standards and Interpretations adopted had any significant comprise the Company and its subsidiaries the Group.
impact on the Groups Financial Statements or accounting policies.
The investment products sold by the Group are issued by independent fund entities for whom the Company acts as the investment manager.
d New IFRS standards and interpretations not applied The fund entities have Boards of Directors comprising a majority of The following IFRSs and interpretations with the exception of IFRS 3 independent directors, with independent governance and decision Revised, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU were available making powers.
The Group does not have a controlling interest in any for early application but have not been applied in these Financial of its funds.
The fund entities results, assets and liabilities are Statements.
The Group has assessed the impact of these new therefore separate from the Group and are not consolidated into the standards and interpretations and has concluded that they are not Group Financial Statements.
likely to have a significant impact on the Groups results.
The results of investment management activities are reflected in the i IFRS 8 Operating segments was issued in November 2006 Group Financial Statements as performance fees and management and is required to be adopted by the Group for reporting in its fees and associated receivables.
The new standard adopts a management approach under which segmental information The investment performance of the fund products managed by the is to be disclosed on the same basis as that used for internal Group is detailed in the Business Review section of the Annual Report, reporting purposes.
and represents a key indicator of the Groups overall performance and ii IAS 1 Revised Presentation of financial statements was issued future sustainability of results.
by the IASB in September 2007 and is required to be adopted by the Group for reporting in its financial year ending 30 June 2010.
The significant accounting policies are summarised below.
These The amendment to the standard requires the preparation of a policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented statement of comprehensive income either to replace or to except as noted in e and u iii below.
complement the current income statement.
In addition, restatements or reclassifications of comparative balance sheet a Basis of preparation information will include a restatement of the opening balance The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in sheet of the comparative period.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, iii IFRS 3 Revised Business combinations and IAS 27 Revised which comprise standards and interpretations issued by either the Consolidated and separate financial statements on acquisition International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International accounting were issued by the IASB in January 2008 and, subject Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or their to approval from the EU, are required to be adopted by the Group predecessors, as adopted by the European Union EU and with for reporting in its financial year ending 30 June 2011.
The revisions those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies to IFRS 3 and IAS 27 are applied prospectively and will result in reporting under IFRS.
changes to accounting policies in relation to future acquisitions.
iv The IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment The Group Financial Statements have been prepared under the in January 2008.
The amendment, which is required to be adopted historical cost convention, except for the measurement at fair value by the Group for reporting in its financial year ending 30 June of derivative financial instruments and certain financial assets that 2010, clarifies that vesting conditions comprise only service are held at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group Financial conditions and performance conditions, and specifies the Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as discussed accounting treatment for a failure to meet a non-vesting condition.
in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36. v The IASB issued amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentationand IAS1Presentation of Financial StatementsPuttable Financial Instruments and Obligations Arising on Liquidation, in b Basis of consolidation The Group Financial Statements incorporate Financial Statements of February 2008.
The amendments are required to be adopted by the Group for reporting in its financial year ending 30 June 2010. the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries prepared to 30 June each year.
Control exists when the Company has vi The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 7, Improving Disclosures about Financial Instruments, in March 2009 introducing a threethe power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The Financial Statements of level hierarchy for fair value measurement disclosure, as well as enhanced disclosure of liquidity risk.
These amendments are subsidiaries are included in the Groups Financial Statements from the date that control begins to the date that control ceases.
effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2009, and will be implemented in the Groups disclosures on The subsidiaries of the Company are: financial instruments in its financial year ending 30 June 2010. vii The IASB issued amendments to IAS 39, 'Financial instruments: BlueBay Funds Management Company S. A. BlueBay Asset Management Japan Limited Recognition and measurement', and IFRS 7, 'Financial instruments: Disclosures', on the 'Reclassification of financial assets'.
This BlueBay Asset Management USA LLC amendment allows the reclassification of certain financial assets previously classified as 'held-for-trading' or 'available-for-sale' to The Groups Employee Benefit Trusts are also consolidated in the Group Financial Statements.
another category under limited circumstances.
Various disclosures are required where a reclassification has been made.
Derivatives All intra-group transactions and balances are eliminated in full on and assets designated as 'at fair value through profit or loss' under the fair value option are not eligible for this reclassification.
amendments are effective for accounting periods starting on or after 1 January 2009, and will be implemented in the Groups disclosures on financial instruments in its financial year ending 30 June 2010.
Financial Statements 63 viii IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation, iii Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in different jurisdictions.
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners and IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers for transfers received on or Judgement is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the after 1 July 2009 will apply to the Group in its financial year ending 30 June 2010. ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is The IASB issued various improvements to IFRSs in April 2009.
These different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions comprise twelve amendments to existing standards, on issues which the IASB considers not of an urgent nature, but necessary, with in the period in which such determination is made.
required implementation dates for Group reporting purposes through to its financial year ended 30 June 2011. iv Surplus premises The Group periodically reviews its premises requirements and e Changes in presentation and accounting policy makes provisions where necessary if the Group has no current In the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2008 need for premises to which the Group is already contractually commission payments, as described in s below were reported within committed under the terms of an operating lease agreement.
In the Financial Statements for the year The calculation of any required provision requires significant ended 30 June 2009 commission payments have been reclassified judgement, as the Group needs to estimate the provision based out of other operating expense, and shown as a separate category on upon discounted future cash outflows due to be paid under the the face on the Income Statement as a cost of sale.
The comparatives lease less any potential cash inflows from sub-letting arrangements have been restated accordingly.
that the Group is able to negotiate.
These cash flows are then discounted for the remaining lease period.
In estimating these cash The Group has changed its accounting policy in respect of units in flows, the Group consults with external advisers in the relevant funds purchased under its deferred compensation scheme.
Units location to understand the potential to sub-let the premises, the purchased are now treated as a prepayment, rather than financial rental rates which could be achieved and the potential amount and assets at fair value through the profit and loss account.
This is time period of any leasehold inducements which may need to be explained in further detail in u iii below and in note 1 to the offered to successfully secure a sub-tenant.
g Income Statement presentation f Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group presents separately on the face of the Income Statement The preparation of the Financial Statements requires management in accordance with IAS 1 paragraph 86 those items which the to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount Directors consider are exceptional.
Exceptional items are defined as of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of those material items which, by virtue of their size or nature, the Group contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, considers should be presented separately in order to aid comparability which are based on managements best judgement at the date between periods.
These items for the year ended 30 June 2009 are of preparation of the Financial Statements, deviate from actual explained in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
circumstances, the original estimates and assumptions will be modified as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
h Segment reporting The areas where a higher degree of judgement or complexity arise, The business segment is the primary reporting segment.
A business or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing Group Financial Statements, are discussed below.
services that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
The principal activity of the Group i Intangible assets is the provision of investment management services and as this is the The valuation and amortisation periods of intangible assets on only business segment in which the Group operates, no additional acquisition, such as computer software, and the impairment business segmental analysis has been shown.
testing are based on value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of future cash flows A geographical segment is engaged in providing services within a and discount rates.
particular economic environment that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of components operating in other economic environments.
The Group operates in Europe, Asia and ii Staff costs An estimate of the current portion of the future liability for bonuses North America.
The analyses by geographical segment are based on the location of the customer.
This is the location where the fund and other employee incentive schemes is included in staff costs.
product entities are registered, or segregated client accounts are domiciled, from which fee income is earned.
64 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Significant accounting policies continued i Intangible assets k Investments Computer software licences acquired are capitalised on the basis of i Classification the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
All Group financial assets are initially recognised and subsequently These costs are amortised using the straight line method over their classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss to estimated useful lives.
These include the financial assets which have been forfeited as part of deferred compensation Costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software awards made on behalf of employees and shown on the Balance programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Costs that are Sheet, see note 14.
Assets in this category are classified as current directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique assets if they are realisable within 12 months of the Balance software products controlled by the Group, and that will probably Sheet date.
generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs include software ii Measurement development and associated contractor costs.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on tradedate, the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the Computer software development costs recognised as assets are asset or the date on which financial assets are forfeited back to the amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Group under the deferred compensation scheme.
Financial assets The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date.
An assets carrying amount assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets from the investments have expired or have been transferred and carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount.
the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
The following useful lives have been determined for the intangible assets acquired during the year: Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets are included in other operating income expense in the Income Computer software licences 3-5 years Statement in the period in which they arise Software development costs 5 years l Derivative financial instruments j Property, plant and equipment i Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities All property, plant and equipment is shown at cost, less subsequent The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure depreciation and impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly to foreign exchange risk and does not hold or issue derivative attributable to the acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group does not included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate designate any derivatives as hedging instruments and does not apply asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic hedge accounting.
Derivatives are, therefore, initially recognised at benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repair and maintenance and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value at each Balance expenditures are charged to the Income Statement during the financial Sheet date.
The resulting gains or losses are recognised immediately period in which they are incurred.
in the Income Statement within other operating income expense.
Derecognition of derivative assets and liabilities occurs on the expiry Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method to reduce the date of the derivative contract or when contracts have subsequently cost of each asset to its residual value over its useful life as follows: been cancelled.
Leasehold improvements 5 years ii Financial risk factors Furniture, fixtures and fittings 3 years A qualitative analysis of the financial risks facing the Group is Information and communication technology equipment 3-5 years provided in the Risk Management section to this Annual Report.
Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life m Trade receivables of the related asset or to the date of the next major renovation, Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value less provision whichever is sooner.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of if appropriate, at each Balance Sheet date.
An assets carrying amount the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets the assets carrying amounts and the present value of their estimated carrying amount is greater than its recoverable amount.
future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the Income Statement.
Financial Statements 65 n Cash and cash equivalents r Fair value estimation Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on The fair value of quoted financial assets is based on current bid prices.
call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
The fair value of unlisted financial assets investments in the funds is based on the net asset valuations of the funds at the Balance Sheet date.
o Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recorded initially at fair value and s Distribution agreements subsequently at amortised cost.
The Group operates a number of distribution agreements.
Commission payments made to intermediaries for ongoing services p Provisions under these distribution agreements are charged to the Income Statement as a cost of sale in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than There are no arrangements where commission payments are not for ongoing services.
not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Management reassesses the amounts of these provisions at each Balance Sheet date t Leases in order to ensure that they are measured at the current best estimate Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the Balance ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
All the Groups Sheet date.
Any difference between the amounts previously leases are operating leases and the rental charges are included in the recognised and the current estimates is recognised immediately in Income Statement on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
As lessee, costs under operating leases are charged to the Income For provisions for surplus space, where the effect of the time value Statement in equal amounts over the periods of the leases.
Incentives of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the received to enter into leases are amortised on a straight line basis over expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current the term of the lease.
market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting u Employee benefits is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time i Pension costs is recognised as an interest expense.
The Group operates a defined contribution scheme.
Employees may contribute directly to this scheme.
The Group makes no contributions q Income recognition to the scheme and there is therefore no cost in the Group accounts.
i Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value for the provision of services, ii Share-based compensation net of any value added tax, rebates, and discounts and after the The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
elimination of sales within the Group.
Revenue is recognised These are explained in note 21 of these Financial Statements.
The fair as follows: value of the employee services received in exchange for the share a Management fees which include all non-performance related awards and options granted is recognised as an expense, with the fees, are recognised in the period in which the services are corresponding credit being recognised in retained earnings within rendered.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting b Performance fees are calculated by reference to the period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and appreciation in the net asset value of the relevant fund during options awarded granted.
At each Balance Sheet date, the Group the performance period.
In accordance with IAS 18, revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to performance fees are only recognised once they can be become exercisable and the number of shares awarded that are measured reliably.
The Group can only reliably measure expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original performance fees at the end of the performance period as the estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, and a corresponding net asset value of the relevant fund could move significantly, adjustment to shareholders equity.
as a result of market movements, between the Groups Balance Sheet date and the end of the performance period.
When options are exercised, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal ii Interest income value and share premium.
Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
iii Other income The Group receives fees in circumstances where employees of the Group act as directors of external investee companies.
The fees are recognised in the period in which the services are rendered.
66 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Significant accounting policies continued iii Deferred compensation scheme w Taxation The Group also operates a deferred compensation scheme for certain i Income tax employees under which a portion of an employees bonus is invested Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current in units in funds managed by the Group.
Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised The amount invested in the nominated fund is initially recognised in directly in shareholders equity, in which case it is recognised full as a prepayment.
This prepayment is subsequently released over in shareholders equity.
the vesting period as the charge for the deferred compensation scheme is recognised in the Income Statement.
This treatment Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the represents a change in accounting policy as fund units were previously year, using rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet held as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss account.
date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
This is discussed in more detail in note 1 of the Group Financial Statements.
ii Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on all Units in the funds are purchased and held in the name of a nominee taxable and deductible temporary differences at the Balance Sheet company for the benefit of relevant employees.
Units are subject to date arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their forfeiture provisions.
As and when units are forfeited, they are reclassified carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
from a prepayment to a financial asset as described in k above.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that iv Profit-sharing and bonus plans are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the The Group operates non-contractual bonus pools based on formulas liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been that take into consideration either Group profitability or strategy enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
profitability with reference to investment performance, on a calendar year basis.
The formulas are reviewed and approved annually by the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that Remuneration Committee.
At the end of the financial year, the Group future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible recognises a liability for bonus pools accrued but not yet paid.
temporary differences can be utilised.
v Foreign currency translation x Dividend distribution i Functional and presentation currency Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognised Items included in the Financial Statements of each of the Groups in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividend entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic is paid or approved by the Companys shareholders.
environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Group Financial Statements are presented in Great Britain Pounds y Share capital and share premium GBP, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency Ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity.
Incremental costs and the currency in which the Groups assets, liabilities and funding directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown are predominantly denominated.
in equity as a deduction from the share premium account.
ii Transactions and balances z Own shares Foreign currency transactions are translated into the relevant Group Employee trusts have been established for the purposes of satisfying entitys functional currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the certain equity-based awards.
The holdings of these trusts include date of the transactions or, where it is more practical, a group entity shares own shares that have not vested unconditionally with may use an average rate for the week or month for all transactions employees of the Group.
in each foreign currency occurring during that week or month as long as the relevant exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
Foreign Own shares are held for the short-term to meet future award exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such requirements and are recorded, at cost, as a deduction from equity.
transactions and from the translation at period end exchange rates of Own shares are recognised on a trade date basis.
Own shares are monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are offset against retained earnings in line with Companies Act 2006. recognised in other operating income or losses in the Income Statement.
aa Other reserves iii Group companies Other reserves comprise deferred tax in respect of tax deductions The results and financial position of all the Group entities none available on those share-based remuneration arrangements.
The of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have deferred tax recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the a functional currency different from the presentation currency are share schemes is limited to the corresponding cumulative share-based translated into the presentation currency as follows: payments expense recognised multiplied by the ruling tax rate.
a assets and liabilities for each Balance Sheet are translated Any excess is taken to other reserves.
The deferred tax deduction at the closing rate at the date of that Balance Sheet: recognised in other reserves is transferred to retained earnings b income and expenses for each Income Statement are translated when utilised against current and prior year tax charges.
at average exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods: c all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
