02 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Inside the Business Who we are What we do How we do it Founded in 2001, BlueBay is one We offer clients a diverse and award We believe in relentless focus and apply of Europes leading asset managers winning range of credit products with this to every area of our business.
We have specialising in fixed income credit.
a variety of different risk return profiles.
built one of the most experienced teams of credit specialists in Europe with the focus Based in London with offices in the We offer products across the major asset to deliver upper quartile performance.
USA and Japan, we manage in excess classes of credit, including European of US$24 billion of assets, and we investment grade and high yield bonds, Alongside this we have invested have 211 employees globally, as at global convertible bonds and global significantly in developing a comprehensive 30 June 2009. emerging markets including hard and and highly scalable infrastructure to provide local currency as well as sovereign best of breed systems, straight through BlueBays specialisation in credit is a key and corporate investment themes.
operational processing and strong risk feature of our success we concentrate management.
on managing assets within a single We offer products across a range of defined asset class while applying an investment styles, including long-only We place a high priority on maintaining absolute return mind-set to a disciplined funds and long short funds.
a strong risk management culture and risk controlled investment process.
within the Group combining rigorous We recognise that capital preservation internal controls and effective risk is key to our investors and our active management systems.
management style aims to produce attractive positive risk-adjusted returns.
Combining the infrastructure of a mainstream asset manager and the investment focus of a boutique has ensured th at our operational capacity keeps pace with asset growth.
Overview 03 Our business drivers Distribution strength: Investment performance: BlueBay delivers investment management services via our BlueBays investment focus is on capital preservation and direct sales force and distribution partnerships, primarily to the generation of attractive risk adjusted returns for our institutional clients.
We focus on creating strong relationships clients across the credit cycle.
We have a well developed with investment consultants and have a dedicated client rigorous investment process that draws on both top-down relationship management team that ensures our clients and bottom-up inputs, resulting in an active style of receive a high level of ongoing service.
Our sales and client management across our range of managed asset classes.
relationship teams are based in our London, Japan and US offices ensuring we can service our global client base.
BlueBay Talented people: Business risk management BlueBays success is dependent on our ability to attract, and controls: retain and motivate highly talented portfolio management As a specialist fixed income credit asset manager, we recognise teams, sales and marketing and infrastructure professionals.
that risk is inherent in our business and the markets in which We accomplish this by ensuring we have competitive we operate.
As such BlueBay is committed to the creation compensation structures key components of which include and maintenance of strong risk management, both portfolio widespread employee share ownership and investment in and operational, as well as rigorous control standards BlueBay funds.
This is designed to ensure employees have throughout the organisation.
a broad alignment of interests with fund investors and shareholders.
BlueBay is also committed to creating a team oriented and collegiate working environment.
