34 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Corporate Governance Report The Board is accountable to the Companys The Board has a formal schedule of matters The Board recognises that it is not fully shareholders for sound corporate governance reserved for its decision.
This is reviewed compliant with the provisions of the Code and is committed to ensuring the integrity annually and amended accordingly.
The in regards to the composition of the Board of the business, maintaining its ethical schedule includes items such as: in terms of the number of independent standards and continuing the high degree the approval of the interim, preliminary directors but remains confident that the of professionalism across the Company.
and annual reports and accounts: strength of its independent non-executive any material changes to the Companys directors continues to be sufficient to ensure During the course of 2008 the Financial overall commercial strategy and that no individual or small group can Reporting Council issued an updated version business plan: dominate the Boards decision-making.
of the Combined Code which became any major Group re-organisations The composition of the Board as outlined applicable to accounting periods beginning or changes in the control structure: above was the position throughout the year.
A complete copy setting the risk management and internal Profiles of the Directors can be found on of the Code can be obtained from the control policies for the Group: pages 30 and 31.
Financial Reporting Council or downloaded consideration of any increases in from their website.
borrowings beyond the limits previously Terence Eccles is the Companys senior adopted: independent director and was appointed to This is the first year the Company will report determining the dividend policy: the Board in November 2006.
He is available against the provisions of the 2008 Code.
The consideration of any appointment or to shareholders if they have concerns which Directors consider that the Group has applied removal from the Board, including the have not or cannot be resolved through the main principles of the Combined Code selection of Chairman, Senior normal channels with the Chairman or Chief 2008 the Code throughout the reporting Independent Director and Chief Executive: Executive.
The senior independent director period and outline below how these have membership of board committees and is responsible for leading the performance been complied with, where they have not their respective chairmen on review of the Chairman.
been fully met and why this is the case.
recommendation by the Nomination Committee: and Apart from the Chairman, the Board The role of the Board delegation of the Boards powers as well considers all three of the remaining nonThe Board is collectively responsible to as the assessment of its performance.
executive directors, namely Terence Eccles, shareholders for creating and delivering Tom Cross Brown and Alan Gibbins to be sustainable long-term shareholder value The Board fulfils its duties to the Companys independent.
through strong leadership, financial shareholders by means of direct intervention performance and the approval of the or by delegating its responsibilities to the The Company expects a high level of Companys strategic objectives.
It is also principal committees of the Board.
These are constructive input and intelligent questioning responsible for ensuring that adequate the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination from its non-executive directors.
If Directors resources are made available to ensure Committees.
A more detailed report of the were to have concerns that could not be these objectives are met and for ensuring activities of each committee is included later resolved about the running of the Company, that management maintains systems of in this report on pages 38 to 42. these would be recorded in the minutes internal control which provide assurance as a matter of Board practice.
of effective and efficient operations, strong The Company Secretary is responsible for internal financial controls and compliance ensuring Board procedures are followed.
The Chairmans other significant with applicable laws and regulations.
commitments are described on page 30.
The Composition of the Board There have been no material changes to such The executive directors are responsible As at 30 June 2009, the Board comprised commitments during the period and these for developing the business, day-to-day four non-executive directors, including the commitments are not considered to impact operations and delivering performance Chairman, and four executive directors.
The Company is aware of the according to the strategic objectives The Board considers its size both suitable external commitments of the independent established by the Board as a whole.
and appropriate for the effective control non-executive directors and does not believe To the development of these activities, and conduct of the business.
that these impinge upon their duties the non-executive directors bring to the Company.
Directors Review 35 Provisions relating to the Directors Duties Attendance at the Board meetings is set out On appointment to the Board, Company on Conflicts of Interest as set out in the in the table below.
marketing literature and financial reports are Companies Act 2006 came into force on made available to new Directors.
In light of the new changes, skill and experience of the Companys nonMeetings attended the Board considered and authorised, in executive directors, the Board believes it Hans-Jrg Rudloff 8 8 accordance with the Company Articles, a matter best left to the discretion of each Terence Eccles 7 8 the external directorships and other interests individual Director to determine general Tom Cross Brown 7 8 held by individual directors which might be training requirements, except where such Alan Gibbins 7 8 regarded as giving rise to actual or potential weaknesses have been identified during Hugh Willis 8 8 areas of conflict.
In addition, Directors will the annual Board performance evaluation.
Mark Poole 7 8 absent themselves from any discussion Nick Williams 8 8 relating to the areas or issues which may All Directors have access to the advice and Alex Khein 7 8 give rise to a conflict or potential conflict.
services of the Company Secretary and may seek independent professional advice, Directors are aware of their continuing Any Director who was unable to attend if necessary, at the Companys expense.
obligations to the Company in this respect.
a Board meeting received appropriate and timely information in advance of the meeting The appointment and removal of the Chairman and Chief Executive in order that their views could be taken into Company Secretary is a matter for the Board The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive consideration.
as a whole, following recommendation of are distinct and separate.
The Chairman, the Nomination Committee.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff, has been Chairman of the Information to the Board Company since July 2001 and is responsible The Chairman, with the assistance of the for leading the Board and ensuring its Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring effectiveness.
The role of Chief Executive that the Directors receive accurate, timely is held by Hugh Willis, one of the co-founders and clear information on all relevant matters.
of the Company, who has been a director In addition to the regular Board and and the Chief Executive since its inception Committee packs, Directors receive detailed in 2001.
He is responsible for the executive monthly updates on the financial performance management of the Company which includes of the Group, its Assets under Management the formulation of the Companys strategy for and portfolio and fund performances.
building shareholder value over the long term.
Directors also receive copies of the minutes of principal Committee meetings and copies Operation of the Board of proposed press releases relating to the The Board held eight scheduled meetings financial performance of the Group for review during the year ended 30 June 2009.
The and comment before publication.
Updates Board is collectively responsible for setting to changes in or developments to compliance its own agenda.
At each Board meeting, the and regulatory matters are also provided Chief Executive generally provides a review to Directors.
of the business and its performance as well as an overview of the financial position of the Company.
The range of topics discussed during the period under review included, for example, the strategic development of the Company, the approval and review of new business, regulatory and compliance matters, the approval of the preliminary and the interim Financial Statements as well as corporate governance issues and discussion of the resourcing and administrative issues of the Company.
36 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Chairmans Committee Each year prior to the commencement of the The AGM is due to be held on 25 November The Chairman met with the non-executive review, consideration is given as to whether 2009 and the Board and Chairman of each directors without the presence of the this method continues to be effective and of the principal Committees welcome the executive directors prior to the publication add value to the evaluation.
Any action points opportunity to answer questions put forward of the annual results.
stemming from the process are passed to to them by shareholders of the Company.
the Company Secretary to action.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the Board Committees notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders The Board formally delegates certain Having completed the review, the Board at least 20 working days prior to the date responsibilities to Committees by way is confident that it continues to operate of the meeting.
of written terms of reference.
The three effectively and the Company benefits both principal Committees are the Audit, from having the objectiveness brought Capital structure disclosure Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
by each non-executive director and the In line with the requirements of the Large Details of each principal Committee, its leadership of the executive directors.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups membership and terms of reference are Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 summarised on the following pages The Board views the annual performance SI 2008 410, disclosures on the share together with details of significant activities evaluation as a highly useful tool in ensuring capital of the Group have been made in undertaken during the year.
The Directors the ongoing effectiveness of the Board and the Directors Report on page 32. receive copies of the minutes to all the assisting it in determining if the right balance Committee meetings.
of skills is brought to the oversight of Re-election the Company.
On recommendation of the Nomination Board performance Committee following the annual performance An annual performance review was Shareholder relations review, the Board confirms that the Directors conducted evaluating the effectiveness During the year, the Chief Executive, the Chief subject to re-election at the 2009 AGM, of the Board and its Committees.
The review Financial Officer and the Chief Operating Officer namely Terence Eccles, Nick Williams and covered aspects such as the Board and met and made presentations to institutional Alex Khein, continue to perform their duties Committee performance throughout the investors, analysts and prospective shareholders.
effectively and demonstrate commitment period and whether the Directors had Feedback from these meetings was given to their respective roles.
The Board will contributed sufficient time and brought to the Board.
The senior independent recommend the re-election of the Directors a suitable mix of knowledge and skills non-executive director is also available to named above at the AGM.
in order for the Board and its Committees meet institutional shareholders if requested.
The Directors, with the assistance of the Going concern Company Secretary, ensure that all appropriate The Directors are satisfied that the Company The process included a review of the communications are released to the London has adequate resources to continue in performance of the Board as a whole Stock Exchange and shareholders.
operational existence for the foreseeable and an evaluation of the performance future and accordingly continue to adopt of the Chairman, led by the Senior The Company maintains a corporate website the going concern basis in preparing the Independent Director.
com which contains a Financial Statements.
wide range of information on the Company, The appraisals were conducted making use including regulatory announcements and of tailored questionnaires which covered published financial information and also a number of wide ranging issues followed details on the net asset values of the funds by face-to-face meetings.
it manages, as well as contact details for both the Companys registrars and for queries submitted directly to the Company.
Directors Review 37 Internal control Explanations of the Directors responsibilities The Company is the Promoter, Investment The Board has overall responsibility for the for preparing the Financial Statements Manager and Principal Sales Agent of the Companys systems of internal control and are given in the Directors Responsibility BlueBay Funds and is subject to supervision risk management, although responsibility Statement on page 54 and for the auditors by the Commission fide Surveillance du for designing, operating and maintaining responsibility for reporting on those Secteur Financier in Luxembourg.
the framework of control and mitigation statements are given in the Independent is delegated to management.
Both the Auditors Report on pages 56 to 57.
BlueBay considers the main areas in which it Board and management recognise that can apply its principles of marketplace good the framework mitigates the risk associated Further information on the risk management governance and ethical conduct to be: with the Companys activities rather than and internal control framework can be found BlueBays own risk controlled investment eliminating it and can objectively provide in the Risk Management and Internal Control processes: reasonable but not absolute assurances.
Report on pages 50 to 53. due diligence and ongoing monitoring of third parties with which BlueBay Strategic decisions relating to risk management Whistle-blowing measures conducts business: and internal control are embedded in the In accordance with the FSA rules the Company transparent dialogue with shareholders matters reserved for consideration by the has had a whistle-blowing policy in place for and investors in its products: Board.
In overseeing these functions, the Board a number of years.
This enables staff to raise ongoing compliance with all relevant has delegated some of these activities to the concerns about possible improprieties relating external legislative and regulatory Audit Committee.
The Committee annually to the Companys operations.
The Code requirements, including those relating conducts a review of the effectiveness of the requires the Audit Committee to review the to the fair treatment of investors: procedures in place and seeks assurances from adequacy of the Companys whistle-blowing ongoing compliance with the investment management that the system is fit for purpose.
strategies and guidelines set out in the relevant fund prospectus or instructions The Audit Committee and Board review, Regulation of its segregated client mandates: and at least annually, the effectiveness of the The Company is authorised and regulated adherence to the relevant principles and controls in place in accordance with the in the United Kingdom by the FSA.
The code of ethics relating to due care Turnbull Guidance 2005.
During the course Company is registered as an investment towards all those who have an interest of its review of the internal controls, the advisor with the US Securities and Exchange in the Group.
Board has not identified or been advised Commission.
To facilitate the activities of any failings or weaknesses which have of the Companys operation in Japan, one The Board is committed to achieving and been determined as being significant.
of the Companys subsidiaries, BlueBay Asset building on the high standards of corporate Management Japan Limited, is registered governance adopted following Listing.
The management of BlueBay is responsible with the relevant authority in that country, for establishing and maintaining adequate the Financial Services Agency.
For and on behalf of the Board internal control over financial reporting.
BlueBays internal controls over financial The Company also provides financial services reporting include policies and procedures that but does not have a physical presence in James Brace pertain to the maintenance of records that, the various EU states but as these services Company Secretary in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly are provided on a cross-border basis and the 17 September 2009 reflect transactions and dispositions of Company does not have a physical presence assets: provide reasonable assurances that in an EU state other than the UK, it is only transactions are recorded as necessary to subject to the rules of these various EU states permit preparation of financial statements to a limited degree having obtained the in accordance with IFRSs and that receipts appropriate European investment services and expenditures are being made only passport.
This passport derives from the panin accordance with authorisations of European regime established by the Markets management and the Directors of BlueBay.
in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
