32 BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2009 Directors Report The Directors submit their report together During the financial year, the Company The Company also holds own shares through with the audited Financial Statements for declared 12.2 million 2008: 17.5 million its arrangements with a number of employees the year ended 30 June 2009 as required in dividends to shareholders on the register.
who have subscribed for shares which have by section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. not vested unconditionally.
Under the terms The Directors responsibilities for preparing Annual General Meeting of each subscription, the shares are held in a this report are set out on page 54 of the The Companys AGM will be held at nominee account on behalf of each employee Corporate Governance Report.
11.00 am on Wednesday, 25 November 2009 until such shares are no longer subject to at 77 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3JR.
The number of own shares held Principal activities and business review under such arrangements as at 30 June 2009 BlueBay Asset Management plc is the Capital structure was 30,756,311 2008: 52,395,569. parent company of an independent At 30 June 2009 the Company had issued Appleby Trust Jersey Limited has waived asset management group which provides share capital of 193,768,462 2008: its entitlement to receive dividends from investment management services to 192,965,962.
The Company has only one the Company in respect of shares held to institutions and high net worth individuals.
class of shares: being the ordinary 0.1pence meet future award requirements under the The Company was admitted to the Official share listed on the London Stock Exchange.
List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading No special rights are attached to any of the on the main market of the London Stock Companys shares.
The Company is not Substantial shareholdings Exchange on 22 November 2006. aware of any arrangements that would As at 1 September 2009 the following voting restrict the voting rights of the ordinary interests were held in the ordinary share A review of BlueBays business during shares in issue.
Transferability of the shares capital of the Company: Pershing Nominees the financial year 2008-09, likely future is otherwise unfettered except where these Limited 37.48%, Strand Nominees Limited developments and the information which shares are issued subject to the rules of any 20.63%, Janus Capital Management LLC fulfils the Business Review requirements of the Companys share or incentive schemes.
5.72%, Lehman Brothers International is contained in the following sections of Europe in Administration 4.90%, Aegon the Annual Report, which are incorporated A total of 802,500 shares were issued during Asset Management plc 3.80% and William into the Directors Report by reference: the period in order to satisfy the Companys Blair & Co LLC 3.33%.
Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7. obligations to holders under the Unapproved Chief Executives Review on pages 8 Share Option Plan.
A further 81,250 were Pershing Nominees Limited is nominee to 11. issued in the period up to the publication in relation to certain of the Companys Business Review on pages 12 to 29. of this report.
employee benefit schemes and within this Risk Management and Internal Control holding two employees of the Company, Report on pages 50 to 53.
The Company does not anticipate an increase Gina Germano and Alberto Francioni each Corporate Governance Statement in its issued share capital except to the extent have disclosable interests in 3.09% and on pages 34 to 37. required to satisfy the exercise of remaining 3.24% respectively of the ordinary share Disclosure of information to auditors options under the Unapproved Share Option capital.
Interests of the Directors, including on page 54.
Information relating to the number of options, are set out in the Remuneration shares over which options remain unexercised Report on pages 41 to 49.
Results and dividends can be found on page 84.
The profit after tax attributable to equity There have been no changes in the Directors holders for the year ended 30 June 2009 Own shares share interests between 30 June 2009 and amounted to 12.0 million 2008: During the year, the number of own shares the date of this report.
purchased by employee trusts and share incentive plans was 2,929,130 2008: Directors The Directors recommend a final dividend 9,029,426, at a cost of 6.0 million 2008: The Directors sitting on the Board throughout of 4.8 pence per ordinary share.
Own shares are held by the financial year were Hans-Jrg Rudloff, to shareholder approval at the AGM, employee trusts and share incentive plans Terence Eccles, Tom Cross Brown, Alan Gibbins, the proposed dividend will be paid on for the purposes of satisfying certain equityHugh Willis, Mark Poole, Nick Williams and 4 December 2009 to shareholders on the based awards where shares have not vested Alex Khein.
Directors biographies can be found register on 6 November 2009, the exunconditionally to employees of the Group.
There were no changes dividend date being 4 November 2009. in the membership of the Board or its Committees during the period.
Directors Review 33 The appointment and termination of directors since the Directors considered it inappropriate The Directors have considered the is governed by the Articles of the Company that no director should stand for re-election performance of PwC and the new audit in compliance with the relevant legislation.
at the following two AGMs, the directors have partner during the 2008-09 audit and will The Articles can only be amended with the continued to offer themselves for re-election recommend their reappointment to the consent of the shareholders and any such by rotation on a shorter basis than prescribed shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The alterations are usually proposed at the AGM.
by the Articles in order to establish regular resolution will also seek the authority for rotation amongst the directors.
At the 2009 the Directors to determine the remuneration The Directors of the Company are empowered AGM, Terence Eccles, Nick Williams and Alex of the auditors for 2009-10. to exercise all the powers of directors as vested Khein will offer themselves for re-election.
in them by both the Articles and applicable Employees legislation.
The authority to allot new shares The names and biographical details of the The Company seeks to operate fair practices, is granted by the shareholders at the AGM, Directors of the Company are given on pages reasonable working conditions and to be as is any authority to make market purchases 30 and 31.
As at 30 June 2009, the Board responsive and flexible to the needs of of own shares.
comprised four executive directors and its employees.
The Company is an equal four non-executive directors including the opportunities employer and treats no job The appointments of the non-executive Chairman.
There have been no changes to applicant or employee on less favourable directors are terminable without entitlement the composition of the Board since that date.
to compensation and without notice, in accordance with the Articles of the Company.
Directors interests and Further details relating to the Groups Service agreements are in place between the indemnity arrangements employee policies can be found on pages Group and the executive directors.
The At no time during the year did any director 28 to 29 of the Business Review within agreements do not have a fixed term, but hold a material interest in any contract the Corporate responsibility report.
provide for termination on the expiry of not of significance with the Company or any less than nine months notice by either party.
of its subsidiary undertakings other than Political and charitable donations The agreements contain no contractual service agreements between each executive Charitable donations of 2,000 were entitlement for the executive directors to be director and the Company and letters of made by the Group during the year 2008: paid any fixed amount of bonus or any fixed engagement between each non-executive 52,000.
Details are included in the provision for termination compensation.
There are no signification agreements The Company maintains appropriate directors No political donations or contributions were impacted by change of control provisions.
and officers liability insurance and has entered made or expenditure incurred by the Group into a deed poll of indemnity in favour of during the year 2008: nil.
Retirement and re-election of directors the executive and non-executive directors.
At the 2008 AGM, Hans Jrg Rudloff, Hugh The Directors also have the benefit of the Credit payment policy Willis and Mark Poole all resigned by rotation indemnity provision in the Companys Articles It is the Groups policy to honour all of its and being the first opportunity since his of Association.
These provisions, which are contractual commitments and this includes election to the Board, Alan Gibbins also qualifying third party indemnity provisions paying suppliers according to agreed terms.
All four directors being eligible as defined by s232 of the Companies Act Average creditor days at 30 June 2009 were offered themselves for re-election.
2006, were in force throughout the year five days for the Company and six days and are currently in force.
Details of Directors for the Group 2008: Company: five days, The Articles provide that each year those remuneration and interests in the shares of Group: eight days.
directors who held office at the time of the Company are set out in the Remuneration the two preceding AGMs and did not retire Report on pages 41 to 49.
For and on behalf of the Board by rotation will retire.
Any non-executive director who has held office for nine years Auditors or more and who is not required to retire The audit partner at  James Brace by rotation will also retire from office.
LLP PwC retired by rotation on completion Company Secretary Given that Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Terence Eccles, of the 2007-08 audit.
At this point formal 17 September 2009 Tom Cross Brown, Hugh Willis, Mark Poole, consideration was given to a change in Nick Williams and Alex Khein all offered auditors and after due process, it was decided themselves for re-election at the first AGM to retain the services of PwC as auditor and of the Company since Listing on the London the resolution was put to the shareholders Stock Exchange on 22 November 2006 and at the 2008 AGM.
