BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company DIRECTORS The Company has five Directors.
Richard Crowder aged 60 holds a range of non-executive directorships and consultancy appointments.
Having worked as an Investment Manager with Ivory & Sime in Edinburgh and as a Head of Investment Research with W. I. Carr in the Far East, he undertook a wide range of responsibilities for Schroders in London and the Far East, culminating in the role of Managing Director for Schroders Singapore associate.
Having then worked as Chairman of Smith New Court Far East and Director of Smith New Court Plc, Richard Crowder was the founding Managing Director of Schroders Channel Islands subsidiary from 1991 until he became a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is resident in Guernsey.
Andrew Dodd aged 38 is the chief financial officer and a member of the executive committee of BCMSL and a member of BlueCrest.
Prior to joining BCMSL he was a managing director at Goldman Sachs International from 2004 to 2006.
He joined Goldman Sachs in 1993, where he specialised in advising insurance, banking and asset management clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, structured finance and asset liability management.
During his time at Goldman Sachs, Andrew advised BlueCrest on the sale of 25 per cent.
of the business to Man Group plc.
He holds a BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford University.
Jonathan Hooley aged 54 is the Chairman of the Channel Islands Stock Exchange as well as holding a number of other non-executive directorships.
He retired as the senior partner of KPMG in the Channel Islands on 30 September 2007.
His career with KPMG spanned some 30 years.
He was a tax partner with KPMG for over 20 years, firstly in London where he was an international tax partner specialising in banking and other financial sector work and subsequently in Guernsey where he has been responsible for advising a large number of investment funds.
Mr Hooley has been a member of the States of Guernsey Fiscal Policy Technical Group for some eight years and continues to act as an adviser to the States of Guernsey on external tax matters.
Mr Hooley is a Chartered Director, Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Adviser.
He is also a member of the Offshore Advisory Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
7 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company DIRECTORS continued Paul Meader aged 44 became Head of Portfolio Management for Collins Stewart in Guernsey in March 2010 following the acquisition of the Corazon Capital group by Collins Stewart.
Having previously held the role of Chief Executive of Corazon, he has 24 years experience in financial markets in London, Dublin and Guernsey following senior positions in portfolio management and trading, with particular expertise in fixed income investments.
Prior to joining Corazon he was Managing Director of Rothschilds Swiss private-banking subsidiary in Guernsey.
He acts as an independent director of a number of investment management companies and investment funds.
Mr Meader is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments, Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association and is past Chairman of the International Bankers Association and of the Guernsey Investment Managers & Stockbrokers Association.
He is a graduate of Hertford College, Oxford.
Mr Meader is a resident of Guernsey.
John Le Prevost aged 58 is the Chief Executive Officer of Anson Group Limited and Chairman of its two operating subsidiaries Anson Fund Managers Limited the Companys Administrator and Secretary and Anson Registrars Limited the Companys Registrar.
He has spent 30 years working in offshore trusts and investment business during which time he was Managing Director of County NatWest Investment Management Channel Islands Limited, Royal Bank of Canadas mutual fund company in Guernsey and Republic National Bank of New Yorks international trust company.
He is a director of a number of companies associated with Anson Groups business including MW TOPS Limited as well as being a non-executive director of Louvre Fiduciary Group Limited and is a trustee of the Guernsey Sailing Trust.
