BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Audit Committee has regard to the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2008.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly reports and financial statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Secretarys compliance department and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually, being before the Board meets to consider the Companys half-yearly and annual financial reports.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and provides a forum through which the Companys external auditors report to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available upon request of the Secretary.
During the year under review the Audit Committee met five times.
Of those five meetings, Messrs Crowder and Hooley attended all five and Mr Meader attended three.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company.
The independent members of the Board will consider new Board appointments although there is no separate nomination committee, which is not in accordance with provision A.
The Chairman, the directors and the Secretary or other appropriate persons will give new appointees to the Board a preliminary briefing on the workings of the Company.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the performance of the Board and each director is reviewed annually by the Board and all directors are subject by rotation to re-election at the Companys general meetings held pursuant to section 199 of the Law.
Management and Remuneration Committee A management and remuneration committee has been established consisting of Paul Meader, Jonathan Hooley and Richard Crowder, with Andrew Dodd and John Le Prevost being entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Paul Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the management and remuneration committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and asses the appropriate levels of remuneration for all directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
