BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company ABOUT THE COMPANY continued BlueCrest continued In addition to the migration of BlueCrests remaining trade and operations to Guernsey, the BlueCrest group has established a new limited partnership in Guernsey, BlueCrest Capital Management Guernsey L. P. BCM Guernsey.
BCM Guernsey has established a branch office in Geneva, Switzerland, from which certain investment and trading activities will take place the Geneva Branch.
BCM UK is regulated and authorised by the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority the FSA and BlueCrest is authorised by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission the GFSC.
The general partner of BCM Guernsey is also authorised by the GFSC.
BlueCrest has ceased to be regulated and authorised by the FSA but has retained its registration as an investment adviser with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Effective from 1 April 2010 BlueCrest has appointed on behalf of AllBlue, acting as its agent, BCM Guernsey acting through the Geneva Branch and, in respect of foreign exchange hedging operations and liquidity management execution services, BCM UK, to manage the assets of AllBlue in BlueCrests place, each as an agent of AllBlue.
Notwithstanding this, BlueCrest has retained responsibility for the supervision and ongoing monitoring of BCM Guernsey acting through the Geneva Branch and BCM UK in the performance of their duties as agents of AllBlue.
Further Issue of Shares The directors have authority to allot the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company and such authority shall only be exercised at prices which are not less than the prevailing net asset value of the relevant share class at the time.
On 10 December 2009 the Companys shareholders resolved to dis-apply the pre-emption rights granted to shareholders pursuant to Article 12 2 of the Companys Articles of Association in respect of up to 500 million Shares for the period concluding the earlier of immediately prior to the general meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 or 31 December 2010.
Discount Management Provisions At the last general meeting held in 2009 the directors obtained shareholder approval to buy back up to 14.99% of each class of Shares in issue and intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from shareholders at each future general meeting held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law.
In accordance with the Law any share buy backs will be affected by the purchase of Shares in the market for cash at a price below the prevailing net asset value of the relevant class of Shares where the directors believe such a purchase will enhance shareholder value.
Any borrowings would be repaid out of the proceeds of redemption of the required number of shares in AllBlue.
Shares which are purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
3 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company ABOUT THE COMPANY continued Discount Management Provisions continued At the last general meeting held in 2009 the directors obtained shareholder approval to buy back up to 14.99% of each class of Shares in issue and intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from shareholders at each future general meeting held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law.
The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that will require a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution if, over the previous 12 month rolling period commencing from 1 January 2008, the relevant class of Shares has traded, on average calculated by averaging the closing mid-market share price on the dates which are 5 Business Days after the date on which each estimated NAV announcement is made for each NAV Calculation Date over the period at a discount in excess of 5 per cent.
to the average Net Asset Value per Share of that class calculated by averaging the NAV per Share of that class as at the NAV Calculation Date at the end of each month during the period.
In the event that a vote to continue is proposed and passed for any class of Ordinary Shares, no further continuation vote will be capable of being proposed for that class for a period of 12 months from the date on which the requirement for a continuation vote was triggered.
Continuation votes were passed for all three classes of Ordinary Shares at separate class meetings held on 12 August 2009 and no further continuation vote will be capable of being triggered for each class for a further 12 months from the date on which the requirement for such a continuation votes was triggered, that being 30 April 2010 Sterling Shares, 27 February 2010 Euro Shares and 31 March 2010 US Dollar Shares.
As at 31 March 2010, the Sterling Shares had traded at an average 0.2% premium to their net asset values, the Euro Shares at an average 0.4% discount and the US Dollar Shares at an average premium of 0.3%, all over the previous 12 month period.
As at 7 April 2010, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, the Sterling Shares were trading at a premium of 2.2% to their net asset value, the Euro Shares at a premium of 1.6% and the US Dollar Shares at a premium of 2.9%.
