Directors Report The Directors present the ir report and the audited accounts for the Results and Dividends 52 week period ended 27 September 2009.
The comparative The results of the Group are set out in detail on page 34.
The figures are for the 52 week period ended 28 September 2008.
Company paid a final dividend and an interim dividend during the period, as detailed in note 13 to the financial statements.
A final Principal Activity dividend of 3.55 pence per ordinary share is proposed and if The principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC and its approved, will be payable on 1 April 2010 to shareholders on the subsidiaries the Group is that of Investment Management, with register at close of business on 12 March 2010. an Investment Banking division.
The principal activity of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC the Company is that of a holding Capital Structure company.
Movements in the Companys share capital are set out in note 27 to the financial statements which includes the rights and obligations Branches attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Operations are carried out in the UK and the Channel Islands.
Details of branches are set out on page 77.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Review of the Business and its Future Development Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles Accompanying this Directors Report are the Executive Chairmans themselves may be amended by special resolution of the Statement, Business Review, Operating and Financial Review, shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report and Directors Remuneration Corporate Governance Report on page 20.
The Company has, over the last three year period, issued a total of A review of the business and its future development including the 2.4% of its issued share capital of ordinary shares in relation to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, are set out in the acquisition of businesses.
Business Review on page 6 and the Operating and Financial Review on page 8.
Financial Instruments and Risk Management Disclosures regarding financial instruments are provided within the Going Concern Operating and Financial Review and note 25 to the financial The Groups business activities, performance and position, together statements.
Note 25 also contains details of risks and risk with the factors likely to affect its future development, are set out in management.
the Business Review and the Operating and Financial Review which also describes the financial position of the Group including its Corporate Governance liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 20 to 24 forms part of the Directors Report.
The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Directors financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk The Directors are listed on page 2.
Biographies of the Directors are are described in note 25. given on page 15.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its Directors Interests in Shares and Substantial Shareholdings business risks successfully.
The Groups forecasts and projections, The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set taking account of possible adverse changes in trading out on page 28 and 29 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within interests of substantial shareholders and Directors are set out on the level of its current financing arrangements.
Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the Directors Indemnities preparation of the financial statements.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors during the period and these remain in force at the date of this report.
16 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Notifiable Interests Training and Development As at 10 November 2009 the Company had been notified of the The continuing development of our people through professional interests shown below in the voting rights of the Company since sponsorship and regular training continues to be a priority for the 7 November 2008.
The Training and Competence team, through a network of Interest in %of Regional Training Managers, provides ongoing support for all Date ordinary voting individuals by giving access to a wide range of learning activities Name Notified shares rights presented by highly qualified trainers as well as increasingly using Aberforth Partners LLP 20-Oct-09 10,350,600 4.800% more flexible methods such as e-learning.
Everybody has the BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd 14-Oct-09 6,540,872 3.031% opportunity to identify any training needs with their line manager Hermes Focus Asset Management Ltd 18-Sep-09 6,792,197 3.150% through the development review process, and the training team provides robust support for a range of continuing professional Standard Life Investments Ltd 17-Aug-09 11,077,887 5.143% development CPD activity.
The Director responsible for Training Aegon UK Group of Companies 24-Jun-09 10,881,041 5.060% and Development through out the financial year was Ben Speke.
Legal & General Group Plc 01-Dec-08 8,563,901 3.990% The Brewin Dolphin Graduate Trainee Scheme continues to provide Annual General Meeting a structured and wide ranging programme for new entrants to The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 12 noon on Investment Management and 2009 10s intake is our largest to date.
26 February 2010 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London, EC2R 8JB.
Our key challenge presently is the Retail Distribution Review RDR and we have been very active in putting in place a range of learning Purchase of Own Shares activities to ensure that our people are ready for the increasing At the Annual General Meeting on 27 February 2009 shareholders professional requirements required.
approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum number of 21,181,528 ordinary shares.
Equal Opportunities This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next Annual The Group has a strong commitment to maintaining a working General Meeting on 26 February 2010.
As at 1 December 2009 the environment based on equality and diversity.
All employment Directors had not used this authority.
decisions are made irrespective of colour, race, age, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical disabilities, marital Employees status or sexual preference.
For employees who may have a The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by disability, the Group ensures that procedures and equipment are in the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 8 to the place to aid them.
For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, all Employment Policies employees are treated in the same way.
Our employees are vital to the continued success of the Group.
The Group and our employees are committed to treating our clients fairly.
Disabled Employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully Employees are encouraged to identify with, and to become considered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant involved with, the financial performance of the Group and service to concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled every clients by extensive profit sharing and bonus arrangements.
In effort is made to ensure that their employment within the Group addition, the employees own approximately 23% of the Group.
continues and that appropriate training is arranged and suitable equipment is supplied in order that they can continue in their role.
It Communication is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and Communication with our employees is essential.
Employees are promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be kept informed of and consulted regularly on key issues affecting identical to that of other employees.
them and the Group by the intranet and Group meetings around the country - which include question and answer sessions and Benefits email where appropriate.
In addition, management accounts are The Group is proud of the attractive benefits available to widely distributed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17 Directors Report continued employees.
All employees are allowed to participate in our interest Community Policy free loan facility in respect of an annual season ticket for travelling Due to the success of the North Easts branches involvement in the to and from work.
In addition, all staff have the option of joining our Young Professionals Forum a networking channel for young private medical insurance scheme.
business people in the Region, the Edinburgh office decided to follow suit and set up a forum in Scotland.
They identified the lack The Group offers a flexible benefits package for senior staff which of opportunities for young professionals in the early stages of their includes permanent health insurance and a company car facility.
career and the aim of the new group is to host regular events offering a platform for likeminded professionals to socialise and The Group recognises the need for an appropriate work life balance network in a relaxed environment.
This Edinburgh Forum has now for employees which not only improves morale within the Group, attracted over 700 members.
Throughout the Group we also have but helps to retain employees.
a policy of providing work experience placements for students in our branches.
We are proud to report a low employee turnover.
Creditor Payment Policy Employee Assistance Programme It is the Groups policy to settle all of its trading transactions on the We understand there may be times when employees need agreed settlement date: this policy extends to other trade creditors specialist advice on employment, personal, financial or legal whose terms are normally 28 days.
On average, creditors were matters.
To support them and their immediate families we provide paid within 10 days in 2009 and 2008. them with free access to a confidential 24 hour helpline, where they can speak with specialist information consultants and counsellors.
Environmental and Ethical Matters The Group believes firmly in the importance of conducting its Pensions business in a responsible and sustainable way, sensitive to the The Group has a normal retirement age of 65.
All permanent developing needs and expectations of society at large.
employees are invited to join the senior staff pension scheme after successful completion of their probation period.
Other than those Sarah Soar has taken over responsibility from Simon Still following employees participating in our flexible benefits package, members his retirement in September 2009 as the Director responsible for of the senior staff pension scheme receive an employer contribution environmental matters.
of 6% of gross salary into the scheme.
The Board has reviewed areas where there may be environmental Linda Cartwright is the Personnel Director of Brewin Dolphin risk from direct actions by the Group.
This risk is considered to be Limited and reports to Robin Bayford, the Board Director with minimal, as in all cases the Groups offices are located in towns and responsibility for Human Resources.
its activities are desk based.
Nearly all the premises are leasehold and our landlords are encouraged, when replacing equipment or for Charitable and Political Donations the services that they supply to us, to ensure that environmental The Group made charitable donations of 64,100 during the period issues are considered.
However, we are undertaking a review on 2008: 61,127.
No political donations were made during the energy consumption with our landlords to establish a baseline for period 2008: nil.
Charitable Fundraising The Groups major suppliers mainly provide market data and Throughout the year our branches have organised and been computer hardware and software.
We ensure that appropriate involved in a range of fundraising events for local and national environmental considerations are considered when a new supplier charities, raising a combined total of 140,882.
We have also completed a piece of work with external contributed to all these great efforts, which have included numerous consultants to minimise our computer footprint through participants in the Race for Life: the Great North Run and the virtualisation or consolidation of services wherever possible.
As London Marathon and one colleague in Edinburgh who completed equipment is replaced this will be implemented according to this the Marathon fide Sables, a 150 mile run through the Sahara Desert.
The Company has a policy of matching the fundraising efforts of We have changed our travel consultants during the latter part of the our employees up to a specified limit and of contributing to the year and in future years we will be able to report on the carbon appeals of our charity clients.
The Group also operates a Give As equivalents on various forms of transport used by the Group.
You Earn Scheme and actively encourages employees to participate.
Many of our Divisional Directors provide pro bono We have reduced the use of paper wherever possible by director and trustee services for charities.
encouraging double sided printing, electronic communications with our shareholders and our clients, the use of the internet and Sponsorship internally by the widespread use of the i ntranet and email The Group sponsors a number of sporting and charitable events communication.
We encourage colleagues not to print out emails.
Notably this year we sponsored Sir The majority of waste paper is recycled.
All paper is produced in Ranulph Fiennes successful Everest climb and helped him raise accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council and where over 3 million for Marie Curie Cancer care.
As usual the Group possible the materials used are made up of 50% recycled and 50% also sponsored the Scottish Schools Cup, the Royal Solent virgin wood fibre for our reports, client reports, letterhead and Regatta and the Ulster Youth Rugby League.
Many of our branches marketing materials.
Our printer and manufacturing mill remain sponsored their local organisations and events including the environmentally accredited and are certified according to ISO Wiltshire Jazz Festival, Taunton Flower Show and the summer 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 standards.
Our printers are music society of Dorset.
18 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC THE COMPANY HAS A POLICY OF MATCHING THE FUNDRAISING EFFORTS OF OUR EMPLOYEES... AND OF CONTRIBUTING TO THE APPEALS OF OUR CHARITY CLIENTS Overseas call centres are not used.
Health and Safety The Group has a Health and Safety at Work Policy which is The Groups environmental policy is on our website.
reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group Board Executive Director responsible for health and safety throughout the financial While the Groups overall investment policy is solely concerned with year was Ben Speke.
obtaining the best return for clients, it is our policy to construct portfolios which take into account the personal preferences of our The Group is committed to the health and safety of its employees, clients in relation to ethical and environmental matters.
clients, sub-contractors and others who may be affected by our work activities.
The Group evaluates the risks to health and safety We have a specialist Ethical Investment Service.
In providing this in the business and manages this through an effective Health and service we have enlisted the help of EIRIS, who since 1983 have Safety Management System.
been helping investors choose shares on ethical grounds.
The Group provides necessary information, instruction, training and There are three levels of service provided: supervision to ensure that employees are able to discharge their duties effectively.
The Health and Safety Management System used  Ethical Collective Portfolio - a fund-based approach for by the Group ensures compliance with all applicable legal and investors wishing to spread their risk.
In this service the regulatory requirements and internal standards and seeks, by principal investments are unit or investment trusts investing in continuous improvement, to develop health and safety ethical companies.
The emphasis of each may be different but performance.
we aim to provide a balanced portfolio of investments which complement each other and provide exposure to different asset Auditors classes for our clients.
This is a discretionary service option.
Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that:  Brewin Dolphin Ethical Portfolio - a facility for investors wishing to avoid the negative criteria, or even encourage the positive  so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit ethical contribution, of a particular sector or invest within their information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and broader investment portfolio, without necessarily impacting on all of their investments - an ethical pick and mix.
In this  the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have service we have established a number of benchmark criteria taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of for measuring the positive or negative ethical impact of specific any relevant audit information and to establish that the sectors, thereby creating a black or white list for the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This service can either be run on a discretionary or advisory basis.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
 Individual Ethical Portfolio - a customised, in-depth service for clients with detailed ethical requirements and whose portfolios Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office need to be constructed or screened with reference to specific as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at and detailed ethical criteria.
In this instance an in-depth the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
questionnaire is completed by the client at the outset.
As By order of the Board implied, this service allows individual clients effectively to select Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc no.
2685806 their own ethical criteria, which are then used as the focus for selecting the individual investments in the clients portfolio.
This option is only available as a discretionary service.
Angela Wright Secretary 1 December 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19
