Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and all of whom are non-executive, can be found on Accounts of the Company for the year ended page 18.
The Company has no executive Directors 30 September 2009. or employees.
Objective Results and Dividends The Companys investment objective is to achieve a The results for the year are set out in the attached total return in excess of a composite index, accounts.
weighted as to 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index First, second and third interim dividends, each of and 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK Index, by 1.442p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 9 April, investing principally in a diversified international 10 July and 9 October 2009 respectively.
The Board portfolio of equities and equity related securities.
recommends a final dividend for the year of 1.786p Within this overall objective, the Company aims to per Ordinary Share payable on 8 January 2010 to maintain a progressive dividend policy which will be shareholders on the register at close of business on dependent upon, inter alia, the rate of revenue 11 December 2009. growth within the portfolio and the level of dividend cover.
Principal Activity and Status The Company is registered as a public limited Investment Policy company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and The Company invests worldwide in companies is an investment company as defined by which F&C Investment Business Limited FCIB or Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Its shares the Managers, believe will in aggregate generate a are quoted on the main market of the London Stock combination of long-term growth in capital and Exchange.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue The Company has not set maximum exposures for & Customs as an investment trust under any geographical regions or sectors.
However, the Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes greater part of the Companys investments will Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2008. normally be UK equities.
The Company also invests As a result, it is not liable to corporation tax on in the markets of other countries or regions and in a capital gains.
In the opinion of the Directors, the portfolio of corporate bonds.
It would normally be Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so expected that most of the Companys investments as to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an will be equities and equity-related securities investment trust.
However, the Company The Company is required to comply with company is not prohibited from investing in other types of law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK securities.
No individual investment in the portfolio Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of may exceed 10 per cent of the Companys total Association.
The Company will not normally invest more than one per cent of its total assets in unlisted The Company is a member of The Association of securities at the time of investment.
No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total Capital Structure assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended The Companys capital structure is set out on investment companies unless such investment page 17. companies themselves have published investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their Business Review total assets in other closed-ended investment The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall companies, in which case the limit is 15 per cent.
stewardship of the Company, including investment The Company may use derivatives, principally, but and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, not exclusively, for efficient portfolio management, corporate governance procedures, and risk that is to reduce, transfer or eliminate investment management.
Biographical details of the Directors, Annual Report and Accounts 2009 19 Report of the Directors continued risk in its investments, including protection against position of the Company at the year end, and the currency risks.
outlook for the coming year are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the The Company uses gearing to enhance income and Managers Review on pages 7 to 13, both of which capital returns over the long term and may borrow in form part of this Business Review.
The Companys Articles of Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the Principal Risks and Risk Management value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
The Companys assets consist mainly of listed However, equity gearing represented by equity securities and its principal risks are therefore marketinvestments as a percentage of shareholders funds related.
The Company is also exposed to currency would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per risk in respect of overseas markets in which it cent of shareholders funds.
More detailed explanations of these risks and the way which they are managed are contained Investment of Assets in note 18 to the accounts.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives a Other risks faced by the Company include the presentation from the Managers which includes a following: review of investment performance, recent portfolio External events such as terrorism, activity and a market outlook.
It also considers protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic compliance with the investment policy and other recessions and movements in interest rates and investment restrictions during the reporting period.
exchange rates could affect share prices in An analysis of the portfolio on 30 September 2009 is particular markets.
contained in note 9 to the accounts and in the Managers Review on pages 7 to 13.
The 50 largest Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, investments are shown on pages 14 and 15.
The asset allocation, stock selection and the use of Companys borrowings are described in notes 11 gearing could all lead to poor returns for and 12 to the accounts.
Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead Strategy to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit delegated the management of the investment report.
Breach of Section 842 of the Income and portfolio, and other services, to the Managers.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the The investment strategy employed by the Managers Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
in meeting the investment objective focuses on Operational failure of the Managers accounting asset allocation, in particular between UK and systems or disruption to the Managers business, overseas equities, corporate bonds, cash and or that of third party service providers, could lead gearing, coupled with active stock selection.
The to an inability to provide accurate reporting and selection of investments is based on analysis of, monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders amongst other things, market positioning and confidence.
competitive advantage, financial strength and Financial inadequate controls by the Managers cashflow characteristics.
As part of this process the or third party service providers could lead Managers are cognisant of the Companys to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate requirement for an above average level of investment accounting policies or failure to comply with income, which is generated principally from UK accounting standards could lead to misreporting equities and corporate bonds.
Breaching bond and The Companys performance in meeting its loan covenants or being unable to replace objectives is measured against key performance maturing borrowing facilities could lead to a loss indicators as set on the following page.
Reviews of of shareholders confidence and financial loss for the Companys returns during the financial year, the shareholders.
20 British Assets Trust plc The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks Discount of share price to net asset value.
through continual review, policy setting and Revenue earnings and dividends per share.
It also Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys investment A historical record of these indicators is contained in portfolio.
Investment risk is spread through holding a the Ten Year Record on page 17. wide range of securities in different countries and industrial sectors.
On 30 September 2009, the Charitable Donations portfolio was made up of 457 investments in During the year the Company made donations to 29 different countries.
The Managers make use of various local charities totalling 10,000 2008 third party risk systems to monitor investment risk 10,000. and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
The Board applies the principles detailed in the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Directors Council.
Details of the Companys internal controls The Directors who held office at the end of the year are described in more detail on page 25. and their interests in the shares of the Company were: Shareholder Value 2009 2008 The Board and Managers recognise the importance Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares of both marketing and share buy-backs in enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, W R E Thomson Beneficial 9,600 9,600 the Managers offer a range of private investor J M Long Beneficial 13,123 11,041 savings schemes, details of which can be found on J S MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 page 52.
In addition, meetings are held regularly Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 with current and prospective shareholders and Dr C Masters Beneficial 21,456 20,470 stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust L C Ruddick Beneficial 34,157 33,761 sector.
Share buy-backs can help reduce the Non-Beneficial 2,459 1,227 volatility of the discount, enhance the net asset I S M Russell Beneficial 20,000 20,000 value per share for continuing shareholders and J G West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 provide an enhancement to the revenue return per share.
Communication of up-to-date portfolio Since 30 September 2009, Mr J M Long, information is made through the Companys Dr C Masters and Ms L C Ruddick have acquired website.
beneficial interests in a further 98 shares, 199 Socially Responsible Investment shares and 81 shares respectively.
Ms L C Ruddick The Companys Managers are leaders in the field of has acquired a non-beneficial interest in a further socially responsible investment and, with the support 124 shares.
There have been no other changes in of the Board, actively engage with investee the interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Shares companies.
Environmental factors are, where of the Company between 30 September 2009 and appropriate, taken into consideration with regard to 13 November 2009. investment decisions on behalf of the Company.
No Director had an interest in the Companys bonds on 30 September 2009 or 30 September 2008.
Key Performance Indicators The Board uses a number of performance measures Mr J M Long retires from the Board and, being to assess the Companys success in meeting its eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The key performance indicators are as follows: As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on page 23, the Board has agreed that Net asset value total return against the Directors who have served on the Board for more benchmark index.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued than nine years will retire annually.
Accordingly, resolved to conduct an annual review of actual or Mr J S MacLeod, Dr C Masters, Mr W R E Thomson possible conflicts and any authorised conflicts.
and Mr J G West will retire at the Annual General Meeting.
Being eligible, Mr J S MacLeod and Substantial Interests in Share Capital Mr J G West offer themselves for re-election.
On 13 November 2009 the following holdings Dr C Masters and Mr W R E Thomson have representing 3 per cent or more of the Companys indicated that they will not stand for re-election and issued share capital had been reported: will therefore retire from the Board at the end of the Number of Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary Shares Percentage Held Held The Board confirms that, following formal AXA Investment Managers 49,118,994 16.9 performance evaluations, the performance of each F&C Asset Management 19,554,086 6.7 of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be Legal & General Group 11,694,807 4.0 effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders that these Directors are re-elected.
Management No Director has a contract of service with the FCIB provides management and secretarial services Company or any material interest in any contract to to the Company.
A summary of the management which the Company is a party.
agreement between the Company and FCIB in respect of those services is provided in note 3 to the Directors Deeds of Indemnity accounts.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in Since the end of the year, the Board has reviewed favour of each of the Directors.
The deeds give each the appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
Director the benefit of an indemnity to the extent In carrying out its review the Board considered the permitted by the Companies Act 2006 against past investment performance of the Company and liabilities incurred by each of them in the execution of the capability and resources of the Managers to their duties and the exercise of their powers.
A copy deliver satisfactory income growth and investment of each deed of indemnity is available for inspection performance.
It also considered the length of the at the Companys registered office during normal notice period of the investment management business hours and will be available for inspection at agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, the Annual General Meeting.
together with the standard of other services provided which include company secretarial, Conflicts of Interest accounting and marketing.
From 1 October 2008, each Director has a statutory duty to avoid a situation where he or she has, or Following this review the Directors are satisfied with could have, a direct or indirect interest which the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the growth and long term investment performance, and Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore duty if the relevant matter has been authorised in their opinion that the continuing appointment of the accordance with the Companys Articles of Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of Association.
The Articles of Association were shareholders.
amended to include the relevant authorisation for Directors to approve such conflicts at the Annual Corporate Governance General Meeting held on 18 December 2008.
Arrangements in respect of corporate governance, During the year the Board conducted a review of appropriate to an investment trust, have been made actual or possible conflicts in respect of each by the Board.
The Board has considered the Director and approved a protocol for identifying and principles and recommendations of the AICs Code dealing with conflicts.
In addition, the Board has of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by 22 British Assets Trust plc reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide As recommended by the AIC Code and the for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Combined Code, Directors who have served on the Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all Board for more than nine years will seek re-election the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined annually.
The Board subscribes to the view Code on Corporate Governance issued by the expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, Directors should not be prevented from forming part as well as setting out additional principles and of an independent majority.
It does not consider that recommendations on issues which are of specific a Directors tenure necessarily reduces his or her relevance to investment trusts.
ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each Director The Board considers that reporting against the is independent in character and judgement and that principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, there are no relationships or circumstances which and by reference to the AIC Guide which are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and information to shareholders than if it had adopted experience are considered to add significantly to the the Combined Code.
strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the Except as disclosed below, the Company has overall length of services of any of the Companys complied throughout the year with the Directors, including the Chairman, has been recommendations of the AIC Code, and the relevant imposed.
provisions of the Combined Code.
Since all The Company has no executive Directors or Directors are non-executive, and in accordance with employees.
A management agreement between the the AIC Code and the preamble to the Combined Company and the Managers sets out the matters Code, the provisions of the Combined Code on the over which the Managers have authority and the role of the chief executive and, except in so far as limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
they apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors All other matters, including corporate strategy, remuneration are not relevant to the Company and investment and dividend policies, gearing, corporate are not reported on further.
governance procedures, and risk management are In view of the requirement in the Articles of reserved for the approval of the Board of Directors.
Association that all Directors retire periodically, the The Board receives full information on the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Companys investment performance, assets, Directors to be appointed for a specified term as liabilities and other relevant information in advance of recommended by principle 3 of the AIC Code and Board meetings.
The Managers, in the absence of provision A.
However, explicit instructions from the Board, are empowered the Board has agreed that each Director will retire to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys and, if appropriate, seek re-election after each three voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all years service, and annually after serving on the meetings worldwide where practicable in Board for more than nine years.
accordance with the Managers own corporate governance policy, which is to seek to maximise The Board consists solely of non-executive shareholder value by constructive use of votes at Directors.
Mr W R E Thomson is the Chairman and company meetings and by endeavouring to use their Mr J G West is the Senior Independent Director.
All influence as investors with a principled approach to Directors are considered by the Board to be corporate governance.
independent of the Companys Managers.
Throughout the year a number of committees have New Directors receive an induction from the Managers on joining the Board, and all Directors been in operation, namely the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement and Remuneration receive other relevant training as necessary.
Committee, and the Nomination Committee.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2009 23 Report of the Directors continued Committees all operate within clearly defined written The Management Engagement and Remuneration terms of reference, which are available upon Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Thomson, request.
comprises the full Board and reviews the appropriateness of the Managers continuing The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr J S MacLeod, appointment, together with the terms and conditions and comprises all of the Directors except Mr W R E thereof, on a regular basis.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal Thomson, comprises the full Board and is convened controls, and the terms of appointment of the for the purpose of considering the appointment of auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also additional Directors as and when considered the forum through which the auditors report to the appropriate.
In considering appointments to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice yearly.
Board, the Nomination Committee takes into The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the account the ongoing requirements of the Company Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under and the need to have a balance of skills and which they are appointed to perform non-audit experience within the Board.
The Committee reviews the scope and During the year the performance of the Board, results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the committees and individual Directors was evaluated independence and objectivity of the auditors, with through a formal assessment process led by the particular regard to non-audit fees.
This involved the completion of amounted to 7,000 for the year ended questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the 30 September 2009 2008: 7,000 and related Company, and follow-up discussions between the principally to the provision of taxation services.
Chairman and each of the Directors.
The Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of other Directors under the leadership of the Senior the Company and that the provision of such nonIndependent Director.
audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
A The following table sets out the number of description of the main features of the Companys scheduled Board and Committee meetings held internal control and risk management systems is during the year ended 30 September 2009 and the contained on page 25. number of meetings attended by each Director.
Management Engagement and Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W R E Thomson Chairman 6 6 n a n a 1 1 1 1 J M Long 6 4 2 1 1 1 1 J S MacLeod 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 C Masters 6 5 2 2 1 1 1 1 L C Ruddick 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 I S M Russell 6 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 J G West 6 5 2 1 1 1 1 1 24 British Assets Trust plc Individual Directors may, at the expense of the misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Company, seek independent professional advice on Board monitors the investment performance of the any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of Company in comparison to its stated objective, the their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate benchmark index, and against comparable Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since the last Board meeting to Going Concern ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the investment policy and approved investment nature of the Companys business and assets, the guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to Directors consider that the Company has adequate the guidelines.
resources to continue in operational existence for The Board has reviewed the need for an internal the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue audit function.
The Board has decided that the to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the systems and procedures employed by the accounts.
Managers, including their internal audit function, which are reported on by a firm of external auditors, Internal Control provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of The Board is responsible for the Companys system internal control, to safeguard the Companys assets, of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An internal audit function specific to The Board has therefore established an ongoing the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is Relations with Shareholders exposed, consistent with the internal control The Company places great importance on guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
communication with shareholders and welcomes The process relies principally on the Managers their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the existing risk-based approach to internal control Companys largest shareholders and report back to whereby a test matrix is created that identifies the the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and key functions carried out by the Managers and other other Directors are available to, and do, meet service providers, the individual activities undertaken shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the within those functions, the risks associated with Company provides a forum, both formal and each activity and the controls employed to minimise informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The issues with the Directors and Managers of the test matrix is regularly updated and the Board is Company.
The notice for the forthcoming Annual provided with regular reports highlighting all material General Meeting, to be held on 17 December 2009, changes to the risk ratings and confirming the action is set out on pages 53 to 55.
The Annual Report which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual and Notice of Annual General Meeting are, where review of these procedures is carried out by the practicable, sent to shareholders at least 20 working Audit Committee and includes consideration of days before the Meeting.
internal control reports issued by the Managers and other service providers.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its Such review procedures have been in place investment portfolio, bonds, bank loan, foreign throughout the financial year and up to the date of exchange currency contracts, cash balances, approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is overdrafts, and debtors and creditors that arise satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures directly from its operations such as sales and are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, The financial risk management objectives and but not absolute, assurance against material Annual Report and Accounts 2009 25 Report of the Directors continued policies arising from its financial instruments and the than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an note 18 to the accounts.
Ordinary Share over the five business days before the shares are purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current Directors Authority to Allot Shares independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
This power will only be exercised if, in the opinion of Resolution 8 will, if passed, authorise the Directors the Directors, a purchase will result in an increase in to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal net asset value per share of the remaining shares amount of 7,277,807, being 10 per cent of the and is in the interests of the shareholders.
Any total issued shares on 13 November 2009. shares purchased under this authority will be Resolution 9 will, if passed, authorise the Directors cancelled.
This authority will expire on the later of to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal 17 June 2011 and the conclusion of the next Annual amount of 3,638,903, being 5 per cent of the total General Meeting of the Company.
issued shares on 13 November 2009, for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
Amendments to the Articles of Association These authorities will continue until the earlier of the It is proposed, in resolution 11, to adopt new articles expiry of 15 months from the passing of the of association the New Articles which will give resolutions and the conclusion of the next Annual effect to: General Meeting.
The Directors will only allot new a the coming into law of the last parts of the shares pursuant to these authorities if they believe it Companies Act 2006: and is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and will not result in a dilution of net asset b the effective repeal on 1 October 2009 of the value per share.
The Directors consider that the Companies Act 1985. authorisations proposed in resolutions 8 and 9 are A summary of the changes proposed by resolution necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not 11 is set out in the Appendix to the Notice of the intend to exercise the powers conferred by these Annual General Meeting.
authorisations at the present time.
A copy of the New Articles will be available for Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares inspection during normal business hours on any During the year the Company purchased for weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays cancellation 1,500,000 Ordinary Shares with an excepted from the date of the notice of the Annual aggregate nominal value of 375,000 for a total General Meeting until the conclusion of the meeting consideration of 1,645,000, representing 0.5 per at the offices of F&C Asset Management plc, cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue at the previous 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU.
Resolution 10, as set out in the notice of the Annual Disclosure of Information to Auditors General Meeting, seeks renewal of the Companys The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is share buy-back authority.
The renewed authority to aware, there is no relevant audit information of make market purchases will be in respect of a which the Companys auditors are unaware and the maximum of 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to Shares of the Company on the date of the passing have taken as Directors in order to make themselves of the resolution approximately 44 million Ordinary aware of any relevant audit information and to Shares.
The price paid for shares will not be less establish that the Companys auditors are aware of than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more that information.
26 British Assets Trust plc Auditors Recommendation Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness The Board considers that the resolutions to be to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at best interests of the shareholders as a whole and the Annual General Meeting.
recommends that they vote in favour of such resolutions as the Directors intend to do in respect Individual Savings Accounts of their own beneficial holdings.
The Companys shares are qualifying investments as defined by HM Revenue & Customs regulations for Individual Savings Accounts.
It is the intention of the By order of the Board Directors that the Company will continue to conduct G R Hay Smith its affairs to satisfy this requirement.
Secretary Creditor Payment Policy 80 George Street The Companys payment policy is to settle Edinburgh EH2 3BU investment transactions in accordance with market 13 November 2009 practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
