Board of Directors William Thomson ` Lynn Ruddick ` Chairman age 57, was appointed in age 69, was appointed a 2004.
She is a nonDirector in 1974 and executive director of Fidelity Chairman in 1995.
He is Special Values plc and also Chairman of Standard Life UK Smaller E. G. Thomson Holdings Companies Trust plc, a Ltd, John Menzies plc and Fidelity Japanese Values member of the Investment Committees of The plc.
Pearson Group Pension Plan and Western Provident Association, Chairman of the WPA Pension Scheme James Long ` Board and a trustee of the Scottish & Newcastle age 54, was appointed in Pension Scheme.
He is Director of Director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers where Risk and Compliance for she headed the companys investment trust AstraZeneca Europe and business unit.
was formerly Corporate Finance Director of Inchcape Ian Russell ` plc and Managing Director, Asia and Emerging age 56, was appointed on Markets, for the ESAB Group.
He was JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
formerly Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc.
He James MacLeod ` is currently non-executive Chairman of the Audit Chairman of Johnston Press Committee plc, Remploy Ltd, the Advanced Power AG advisory age 68, was appointed board, and the University of Edinburgh campaign in 1998 and was a partner board, a non-executive director of The Mercantile of Ernst & Young and its Investment Trust plc, and an adviser to the Clyde predecessor firms for Bergemann Power Group.
25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a director of Scottish Investment Trust plc, Invesco Perpetual James West ` Senior Independent Director AIM VCT plc and Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust 2011 plc.
age 62, was appointed in 1995 and was formerly Dr Christopher Masters ` Managing Director of Lazard age 62, was appointed in Brothers and Co Ltd and 1990 and was, until 2002, Chief Executive of Lazard executive Chairman of Asset Management Ltd.
He is Chairman of Gartmore Aggreko plc.
He is currently Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Fund Ltd, Chairman of Sagentia Canaccord Adams Ltd and Rurelec plc.
He is also a Group plc and Festival City director of JPMorgan Income & Capital Investment Theatres Trust.
He is also a non-executive director Trust plc, Shires Smaller Companies plc, UK Select of John Wood Group plc, Alliance Trust plc, Creative Trust plc and IPSA Group plc.
Scotland 2009 Ltd, and The Crown Agents Member of the Audit Committee Foundation.
Member of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee ` Member of the Nomination Committee 18 British Assets Trust plc
