Managers Review Introduction such as Brazil and Russia have reaped the benefits In the year to 30 September 2009, the Companys of rising prices and strengthening demand.
net asset value total return was 13.8 per cent, which During the first three months of the financial year we compared to a total return of 11.1 per cent per cent restructured both the UK and overseas portfolios.
from its composite benchmark index 75 per cent The first aim of this was to improve the capital FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per cent FTSE World growth prospects, particularly for the UK portfolio, ex UK Index.
The Companys share price total by introducing some high growth stocks alongside return was 15.8 per cent.
The second step was At 30 September 2009 the Company had gearing, to simplify the overseas portfolio to improve the net of cash, of 21.0 per cent, comprising 5.5 per potential for returns whilst still offering the option to cent in equities and 15.5 per cent invested in allocate assets between developed and emerging corporate bonds.
Both of these changes were implemented alongside an increase in the Companys exposure to The current financial year has certainly proved corporate bonds in order to meet the income eventful.
Financial markets have experienced a requirements.
remarkable journey over the past twelve months, with financial implosion, industrial collapse and then The overseas portfolio was restructured on apparent recovery within such a short period.
1 December 2008, with 15 per cent of the total assets invested in global developed markets and Equities, commodities and credit markets have 10 per cent in global emerging markets.
This shift continued to recover, driven by the improvement in has proved beneficial for British Assets Trust with some key economic indicators, a rebound in both the timing of the move to invest in emerging corporate earnings expectations and a significant markets and good stock selection working in the improvement in liquidity conditions.
As the prospect Companys favour.
of depression and systemic collapse in key parts of the banking and financial system diminished, a The timing of the increased exposure to corporate recovery in risk appetite led to strong gains across bonds in October has worked well, with some calm markets.
returning to credit markets after a difficult 2008.
The Emerging markets were the main beneficiaries of the premium in interest rates over government bonds has upswing in investor sentiment.
Resource exporters narrowed and we have seen good returns this year.
Local Stockmarket Total Returns Year to 30 September 2009 Currency %% FTSEAll-ShareIndex 10.8 10.8 FTSEWorld exUK Index 12.0 3.1  exUK Index 10.4 4.6  33.1 18.5 Source:Datastream  Annual Report and Accounts 2009 7 Managers Review continued Asset Allocation The asset allocation of the Company is shown in the table below: 30 September 2009 30 September 2008 ShareShareBenchmark holders Total holders Total 30.09.09 Funds Assets Funds Assets Asset Class %%%%% UK Equities 75.0 70.8 56.8 74.8 59.0 Overseas Equities Global Developed ex UK 22.8 19.6 15.8 36.8 29.0 Emerging Markets 2.2 15.1 12.1 Total Overseas Equities 25.0 34.7 27.9 36.8 29.0 Total Equities 100.0 105.5 84.7 111.6 88.0 Corporate Bonds 15.5 12.4 8.9 7.0 Net Current Assets 2.9 5.0 Actual Gearing 21.0 20.5 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Potential Gearing 24.6 26.8 2009 has proved to be a very challenging year for cent of dividends paid.
This concentration of income as the global recession and the part dividends is likely to remain until we see improved nationalisation of the banking sector resulted in economic growth and the banks return to paying widespread dividend cuts.
The outlook for dividends dividends.
Given the importance of the oil sector to going forward is somewhat more stable, however the dividends the oil price is very important.
The one of the main concerns for income from UK other key variable is the $ exchange rate, with dividends is the concentration risk, with just seven HSBC, Royal Dutch Shell, BP and AstraZeneca all stocks accounting for over 50 per cent of FTSE paying their dividends in dollars.
income and the oil sector contributing some 25 per Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Vodafone, HSBC, GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca and British American Tobacco Source: Citigroup 8 British Assets Trust plc Sub-Portfolio Reports UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company NatureofBusiness Valuem Investments HSBCHoldings Banking 22.7 5.3 BP Oil&Gas 20.5 4.8 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals 15.9 3.7 RoyalDutchShell Oil&Gas 14.7 3.4 Vodafone Telecommunications 14.4 3.4 RioTinto Mining 13.1 3.0  Tobacco 10.2 2.4 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals 9.1 2.1 Tesco Retailing 9.0 2.1  Electricity 8.7 2.0 The UK portfolio returned 4.9 per cent compared UK equities are reflecting improved economic data with a return of 10.8 per cent from the FTSE and confidence in a cyclical recovery.
rally since the March lows has left the market vulnerable to profit-taking, but at current levels it It has been an exceptionally difficult year for investing remains well supported by fundamentals.
Earnings for income in the UK market.
The recovery has been expectations have been progressively upgraded over most marked amongst those companies with the the summer months, especially following a greatest sensitivity to economic conditions and those reassuring second quarter reporting season.
We with weak balance sheets.
This effect is evident in the have also been encouraged by the markets variation of performance by size with a 9.5 per cent resilience to over 50 billion of fund raisings this year total return from the FTSE 100 Index compared with a as well as dividend cuts.
25.5 per cent total return from the more domestically oriented FTSE Smaller Companies ex Investment The UK economy nevertheless has a huge hurdle to Companies Index.
The Companys underweight climb in terms of surmounting its vast budget deficit.
position in the banking sector was the largest cause As the government is forced to raise taxes and slash of underperformance relative to the FTSE All-Share spending in 2010 in an attempt to bridge the fiscal Index as the sector performed very strongly.
In the shortfall, market sentiment could easily fall away sector, only HSBC, where we have increased the size once again.
We are also concerned that personal of the Companys investment, and Standard sector borrowing is historically high and Chartered, in which the Company has no investment, unemployment is still increasing.
Rising inflation is a pay dividends, making it difficult to justify investing in risk as commodity prices increase and the effects of the sector.
The portfolio reflects the need to produce aggressive quantitative easing filter through to the a steady stream of income for investors, namely in economy.
Against this backdrop, we prefer the more sectors with more stable earnings and dividend robust characteristics of large companies.
prospects such as gas, water and electricity, utilities andtobacco.
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 9 Managers Review continued Global Developed ex UK Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country NatureofBusiness Valuem Investments ExxonMobil USA Oil&Gas 2.3 0.5 DowChemical USA Chemicals 2.2 0.5 &Space France Aerospace&Defence 2.0 0.5  Japan  1.9 0.5 ENI Italy Oil&Gas 1.9 0.5 Johnson&Johnson USA Pharmaceuticals 1.9 0.4 TimeWarner USA Media 1.8 0.4 Swedbank Sweden Banking 1.8 0.4 BankofMontreal Canada Banking 1.8 0.4 OccidentalPetroleum USA Oil&Gas 1.8 0.4 The Global Developed Markets portfolio returned forecast that the American economy would return to 25.7 per cent compared with a return of 25.2 per growth by the end of 2009.
The US government has cent from the FTSE All-World Developed ex UK continued with expansive policy responses to the Index for the period since the portfolio was recession throughout the year.
European equities have also made strong progress, Having fallen sharply in the first half of the despite there being few tangible signs of the region Companys year, global stockmarkets have seen emerging from the economic doldrums.
Japanese significant gains since March.
This rally was stocks were also buoyed recently by signs of triggered and sustained by growing evidence that, improving exports, although the domestic economic thanks to the extensive fiscal and monetary support, picture remains bleak with unemployment at 5 per the difficult period for growth was behind us.
cent and the return of deflation.
Elsewhere, in the Relatively strong company results gave more Far East, the Chinese governments stimulus support to markets, especially the statements made spending has helped lift domestic demand leading by the major US banks in early March that they to expectations of a return to robust growth in 2010. would be profitable in the first quarter of 2009.
This supported a rally across the regions markets.
While still fragile, sentiment towards US equities has Overall, the feeling of a reviving global economy been bolstered by better-than-expected data on should persist into next year, and this should inflation, manufacturing and new housing starts.
However, Indeed, this increasing optimism, which was unless this nascent recovery kick-starts credit mirrored by an improvement in consumer growth and a sharp turnaround in employment, the confidence, prompted the Federal Reserve to actual recovery will take some time and be modest.
10 British Assets Trust plc Emerging Markets Major Holdings Market %Total Company Country NatureofBusiness Valuem Investments Petrobras Brazil Oil&Gas 3.2 0.7 ValePN Brazil Mining 2.6 0.6 ChinaLifeInsurance HongKong LifeInsurance 1.9 0.5 BankofChina China Banking 1.9 0.4 InfosysTechnologies India Software&ComputerServices 1.8 0.4  Taiwan Electronic&ElectricalEquipment 1.7 0.4 Posco SouthKorea IndustrialMetals 1.6 0.4 TaiwanSemiconductor Taiwan TechnologyHardware&Equipment 1.5 0.3 OTPBank Hungary Banking 1.5 0.3 BangkokBank Thailand Banking 1.5 0.3 The Emerging Markets portfolio returned 76.7 per profits and stockmarket returns.
Resilient domestic cent compared to a return of 70.6 per cent from the growth in economies such as China, India and MSCI Emerging Markets Index for the period since Indonesia underpins our confidence, although after the portfolio was restructured on 1 December 2008. stellar performance over the past year, we are becoming more cautious on valuations in some The portfolio outperformed the benchmark in what markets.
was an extremely strong period for emerging market equities.
Early in 2009, exposure to the gold At a country level we favour Thailand, Brazil and and technology sectors, as well as a number of Russia because of an expected recovery in their investments which benefited from falling interest domestic economies next year and cheap rates, boosted performance, as did the decision to valuations.
We also favour Indonesia which, despite have a small exposure to the markets of Eastern richer valuations, remains an attractive long-term Europe.
In the final three months of the period, growth story.
We are focusing on infrastructure returns were boosted by the overweighting of investment themes, rising consumer spending, the Russia and the underweighting of China.
increasing penetration of financial services and expanding energy production capacity.
We continue to view emerging markets favourably as we believe that long-term growth will result in robust Annual Report and Accounts 2009 11 Managers Review continued Corporate Bonds The corporate bond portfolio returned 17.2 per cent There has been record bond issuance in markets as over the year.
This compares to a return of 12.9 per companies were encouraged to replace bank cent from investment grade bonds as measured by lending with bonds.
Demand for corporate bonds the Merrill Lynch All Sterling Non-Gilts Index and a also increased significantly as investors faced return of 33.2 per cent from high yield bonds as earning next to nothing on cash.
We expect measured by the European Currency High Yield issuance, which still offers the cheapest way of Index.
entering the markets, to continue at a healthy pace.
During the year we allocated a further 12 million The rally in corporate bond markets has, to a large to the corporate bond portfolio which was degree, been justified by the stabilisation in subsequently invested in investment grade bonds.
From a longer term perspective, As a result, the portfolio ended the year defensively the additional yield offered by corporate bonds positioned, with 87.2 per cent invested in investment remains very attractive when compared to grade bonds and 12.8 per cent in high yield bonds.
However, we remain cautious on the economic outlook given the medium term Corporate bond markets have rallied in recent need for governments to balance their books and for months in line with other assets.
The government central banks to ease their foot off the accelerator.
and central bank intervention has removed fears of Despite this, we do believe that the volatility systemic failure in the financial system and stabilised experienced over the past couple of years within the the outlook for economic growth.
As a result, the corporate bond market is unlikely to be repeated premium in interest rates over government bonds provided companies, in particular the banks, do not has tightened across the board with subordinated squander the opportunity provided by a more stable financial debt and high yield bonds particular environment to put their house in order.
Returns were also boosted by the significant reduction in short term and medium term interest rates across the globe.
12 British Assets Trust plc Outlook stage, as ever, there is a great deal of uncertainty With global equity markets having recovered over what the recovery will look like.
The continued significantly from the lows seen in March, investors need to reduce the level of debt in the real economy are questioning the sustainability of the recovery and the financial sector is likely to be an ongoing from here.
Despite these concerns, sentiment in and persistent drag on growth in coming years.
In general has moved with the markets, with a much addition, while credit conditions have gone some more bullish consensus emerging as policymakers, way towards normalisation, both the demand and with colossal and concerted stimulus efforts, have supply of credit will likely be materially lower than for been seen to successfully avert the risk of a many years.
downward spiral in the banking system and global We should not lose sight of the fact that monetary economy.
policy remains loose and has boosted asset prices.
The hesitant economic recovery will encourage The move in financial markets reflects, in the main, policymakers to favour a continuation of their easy an improved economic outlook as the risk of outright money stance, justified by a benign inflation outlook.
economic collapse, which had seemed like a real The US Federal Reserve has clearly indicated that it threat in the latter part of 2008 and early 2009, is in no hurry to abandon ultra low interest rates.
Given the current, healthier state of the This means that the liquidity boom which is fuelling markets, it is perhaps tempting to conclude that the the rally in equity and credit markets could continue downside risks to growth and financial stability were for some time, particularly in emerging markets.
There is, however, little doubt that, without the stimulus efforts and measures to restore On balance next year should be reasonable for confidence in the banking system through various equities and corporate bonds but it may not be a measures including nationalisation, we would have smooth path.
been facing a severe and prolonged global recession.
Julie Dent As things stand now, the debate has moved beyond Investment Manager the shape of economic recovery towards the F&C Investment Business Limited sustainability and strength of the underlying 13 November 2009 fundamentals and of the corporate sector.
At this Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
