Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Investment Managers Review During the year, your Companys net asset value but there was too much debt loaded onto these increased by 17.8% on a total return basis, assets in the boom times and this is still in the which compares to total returns of 9.1% in the process of unwinding.
Gold, as an unleveraged Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment asset and preserver of value against fide-based Trust Index and 9.6% in the MSCI World Index.
currencies, may attract attention and we have a small exposure there.
Defensive high dividend The equity markets have continued to rise yielding stocks may also interest us if the economy through our year end, despite healthy scepticism does not recover as quickly as expected.
in many quarters as to whether the rally can Emerging markets and commodities are areas continue.
The lack of belief in the equity market in which there may be growth despite restrained rally derives from the assumption that, economically, growth in over-leveraged developed markets.
we are not out of the woods yet and that the Overall, it would seem wise in this environment to recovery will be weak.
A weak economy, however, have a spread of assets that could benefit from does not necessarily mean a falling equity market.
the easy money low growth environment without The US Federal Reserve has recently pledged to taking too many big bets.
Discounts are not as keep rates low for an extended period of time, wide as the mid-thirties levels experienced at the which is taken to mean at least two years.
If the beginning of 2009 in the depths of the crisis but economy is weak, companies will not increase in the low to mid-twenties are still attractive.
capital expenditure and consumers will rein in consumption.
The liquidity created may, thus, Portfolio Review need to find a home in asset markets, a category which includes equities.
The weaker the At the year end on 30 September 2009, the economy, the more excess liquidity that may weighted average discount on the underlying potentially need to find a home.
portfolio was 22% and liquidity was 14.5%.
Central Banks around the world believe that At the half year on 31 March 2009, the weighted interest rates may safely be left low because average discount on the underlying portfolio was there is no inflation in consumer prices.
Excess just under 30% and our liquidity was 6.4%.
The productive capacity and a struggling consumer wide discounts available at that time encouraged will likely keep a lid on inflation in goods us to become more fully invested.
With less commonly consumed by individuals.
However, cash in the portfolio and with the advantage of inflation may also be understood as the rapid narrowing discounts, we were positioned to growth in the supply of money and credit.
benefit from the rising market and to outperform Excess money may find its way into various broad market indices.
asset classes and these same Central banks may therefore be blowing more bubbles.
This Investment Holding Companies is, to a certain extent, intentional, as Western The weighted average discount to NAV on the banks need the value of their assets to be investment holding companies was 31%, down re-flated in order to regain their solvency.
from 35% last year and above the 24% of the previous year.
In general, we have concentrated As an investor, it will be difficult to know which our holdings on strongly financed companies.
asset classes will benefit from these anticipated easy monetary conditions.
With capital investment We continue to have big positions in some of depressed and consumption curtailed, one has to the large European holding companies such as be wary of companies exposed to weak demand.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Pargesa Holdings Physical property would be a logical beneficiary Liquidity is calculated as fixed income investments plus net current assets divided by total assets less current liabilities.
11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued 6.5% : Sofina 4.9% and Investor AB 4.3%.
Electra Private Equity 2.7% These companies all had net cash on their We took advantage of market weakness during balance sheets going in to the financial crisis the end of 2008 to add to our position in Electra.
and they were able to subscribe to rights issues at Electra is better positioned than many investment some of their portfolio companies.
Despite their trusts that focus on the private equity sector.
It strong position, their good long term track records has net cash of 15% of NAV and does not have and the strong underlying quality of their portfolios the over-commitment problems affecting some they all remain on discounts to NAV of c30%.
It is currently trading on a 23% discount to NAV and, having made few new Jardine Matheson Holdings Jardine Strategic investments over the last few years, appears well Holdings 8.70% placed to invest at potentially attractive valuations.
We continue to have a large weighting in the Jardine companies.
The shares are currently Real Estate Companies trading on discounts of 30% Jardine Matheson Deutsche Wohnen 1.94% and 40% Jardine Strategic.
In addition, Deutsche Wohnen trades on a discount of around valuations of the underlying companies such 30% to the value of its portfolio of residential as Dairy Farm, Jardine Cycle & Carriage and property in Germany.
The company had a relatively Hong Kong Land, look attractive and this portfolio high level of debt and was unable to generate of companies ought to benefit from continued high cash returns, which led to poor share price growth within the Asian economies.
However, following a rights issue, and potential refinancing of existing debt, the Bouygues 1.71% companys financial situation has improved.
In A recent addition to the portfolio is Bouygues.
addition, the company has made significant cost The Bouygues family-controlled French savings, and seems likely to make decent cash conglomerate has major interests in construction returns from its portfolio going forward.
and mobile telephones and a 30% stake in Alstom, which provides equipment and services Japan to the railway and power generation industries.
Our weighting in Japan has been reduced over Over the past year, its exposure to the cyclical the year to 7.4% as compared to 12.2% last year.
construction business, as well as the impending We had a good deal of exposure to Japanese grant of a fourth mobile phone operating licence in property and much of this was sold during the France, has harmed its share price.
However, the latter half of the year, following a period of strong company trades on valuation multiples that are both performance, albeit for a loss.
Our remaining lower than its peers and low in absolute terms, it exposure comprises a mix of investment trusts, has a sustainable dividend yield of close to 5% and deep value smaller companies and Nintendo.
there is upside in the construction business both from an improved economic environment and from Nintendo 1.55% fiscal stimulus infrastructure projects in France.
A new holding in Japan for the portfolio is Nintendo.
Its shares have fallen sharply since 2 Investment Companies November 2007 and are now 3 rds lower than Discounts on our investment trust holdings were they were then.
There have been concerns that 19% on average against 10% for the investment sales of the Wii have peaked and that competitors trust sector as a whole.
This is the same level as a may be bringing out more advanced technologies.
During the year we made a successful However, we feel these fears are overdone and investment in 3i Quoted Private Equity, which was that Nintendo will continue to generate strong taken over by 3i in order to gain access to the cash flow.
The company has built up a cash pile large amount of cash that was on its balance sheet.
that now equates to around 40% of its market 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Portfolio investments Swire Pacific 1 is active in the aviation sector.
In addition to stakes in Cathay Pacific and Dragon Air, Swire has a controlling stake in Hong Kong Aircraft Engineering Company, the leading regional aeronautical engineering and maintenance company.
Aksigorta 2 is a Turkish insurance company controlled by the Sabanci Group.
Aksigorta is in the process of spinning off non-core assets to shareholders which should demonstrate the undervaluation of its insurance business.
Ackermans & van Haaren 3 Ackerman owns a 75% interest in Belgium private bank, Bank Delen.
The Banks conservative investment style has stood it in good stead during the recent crisis, and this has enabled it to grow assets under management.
Bank Delen has won the 2 3 Euromoney Best Private Bank: Belgium award for the past 3 years.
1 1 2 2 3 13 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued 4 Other Portfolio Investments Nintendo 4 is a world leader in game consoles and software.
The company has been fide-rated following slowing sales momentum in certain key product areas 5 but with a very strong balance sheet and new products on the way the shares look undervalued.
6 A P Mller Maersk 5 is a Danish conglomerate focused on container shipping and the oil and gas industry.
Cairn Energy 6 is rapidly ramping up oil production in India through its 62% owned subsidiary, Cairn India.
There is further opportunity to expand in Rajasthan as well as upside exploration potential in Greenland.
Redback Mining 7 is a growing gold producer with assets in Ghana 7 and Mauritania.
14 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 capitalisation, and despite a dividend yield of Portfolio by Region % as at 30 September 2009 over 5%, the companys strong operating performance allows it to continue to build up Continental Europe 42.59 UK 14.81 its cash.
Nintendo does not need to retain all Asia Pacic 11.49 this cash on its balance sheet.
At some point in Japan 7.43 the future, management may decide to return EMEA 5.20 some cash to shareholders, which ought to be Canada 3.97 good for the share price.
Liquidity 14.51 Other Vivendi 4.52% necessary support.
It will be easy to make Vivendi is an example of a company in the Other mistakes as an investor as it is very hard at this category of the portfolio.
It is a media conglomerate juncture to tell the difference between the with interests in music, telecoms, video games and short-term effects of government stimulus and pay-tv.
The core businesses provide relatively stable inventory re-stocking and a sustainable recovery.
In addition, the group has The market may currently be betting on the latter exposure to growth opportunities in emerging but any signs that government stimulus is being economies, principally through its interest in withdrawn or is no longer effective could cause Maroc Telecom.
The shares are currently trading a relapse in the markets.
approximately 27% below our estimate of sum of the parts SOP value, and in addition provide a The two markets most implicated in quantitative dividend yield over 7%.
Management is committed easing are the US and the UK.
Ultra low interest to the dividend and also to seeking out further rates and abundant money supply growth may growth opportunities in emerging economies, lead to weaker currencies for both nations over without jeopardising the companys current credit time.
A weaker Pound would be beneficial for our rating.
We find the shares cheap on the basis of Sterling based investors as most of our assets are the current multiples to cash flow, its high dividend invested in foreign currencies.
The uncertainties yield and a wide discount to its SOP value.
relating to major government intervention in the markets is likely to lead to more volatility as Geographical Profile markets try to understand and adapt to these new Gross Assets of 764m were distributed as conditions.
We will try to build in our margin of follows: Continental Europe 42.6%, UK 14.8%, safety through the purchase of good quality Asia Pacific 11.5%, Japan 7.4%, EMEA 5.2%, assets on a substantial discount.
Where that is not Canada 4.0% and Liquidity of 14.5%.
possible, we may have to sell assets and increase our liquidity position.
With the equity markets Outlook significantly ahead of their crisis lows, and the The need to reduce the overall level of private risks of policy mistakes high, we are now less sector indebtedness should restrain economic fully invested then we were at the half year.
growth in many Western Countries.
In addition the economic crisis has led to the increasing involvement of governments in the economy.
The resultant higher levels of both taxes and regulations will also serve to reduce potential growth rates.
While current liquidity conditions and ultra low interest rates are positive for the John Pennink market, there is a danger that, at some point, the Asset Value Investors Limited market loses touch with the earnings that are its 16 November 2009 15
