British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys statements for the year ended 30 September 2009. investment objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon Status circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any The Company is registered as a public limited company under the particular time.
Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
It is a member of the Association The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may of Investment Companies.
vary substantially over time according to market conditions but which will not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of The Company has been approved as an investment trust the Company.
company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2008.
The Directors Reviews of the Companys NAV performance during the year in are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted comparison to the benchmark the Companys key performance its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2009 so as to be able indicator, are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 for to 7 and the Investment Managers Review on pages 11 to 15. that year.
The principal financial risks facing the business and how these The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Stocks & are managed are set out in note 19 in the Notes to the Accounts Shares Individual Savings Accounts.
Investment Objective, Policy, Restrictions and Business Review The non-financial risks which can impact on performance are a The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through loss of key personnel especially within the investment a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose management team : regulatory principally breaches of either shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
UKLA Listing Rules or Section 842 ICTA 1988 : and failure of systems or controls.
In managing these risks the Company Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised reviews staffing and activity levels of the Investment Manager stock exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include and Administrator at least annually to ensure there are adequate investment holding companies, investment trusts and other qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the companies, the share price of which is assessed to be below their Investment Manager to promptly notify the Board of any changes estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the systems of the make up the bulk of the portfolio the Company may also invest in Investment Manager and Administrator as part of its half yearly unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
compliance checks: which is additionally reported on by the Companys independent auditor as part of the annual audit.
The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge exposures through the use of derivative instruments and The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price There are no geographic limits on exposure as the Company will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the invests wherever it considers there are opportunities for capital Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate growth.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many in value.
of which themselves are diversified companies.
The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
22 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Results and Dividends Group profit for the year was 113,017,000 which included a profit of 12,774,000 attributable to revenue 2008: loss of 171,904,000 which included a profit of 13,548,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 12,777 12,774 Interim dividend of 1.80p per Ordinary Share paid on 12 June 2009 2,881 2,881 Recommended final dividend payable on 8 January 2010 to Shareholders on the Register as at 11 December 2009 ex dividend 9 December 2009 : - Final dividend of 4.20p per Ordinary share 6,723 6,723 - Special dividend of 1.25p per Ordinary share 2,001 2,001 11,605 11,605 Directors The Directors of the Company, all of whom were in office year, the Board considers that they have provided both throughout the year under review, are listed on page 21.
In commitment and a full contribution to the affairs of the Company addition Mr P Allen was a Director of the Company until he throughout the year.
retired from the Board on 31 March 2009.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of Mr Macpherson and Mr Bates retire by rotation in accordance the re-election of Mr Macpherson and Mr Bates.
with Article 107 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Having conducted a review of their performance during the The interests all beneficial of the current Directors and their connected persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2009 are set out below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 09 1 10 08 30 9 09 1 10 08 PSS Macpherson 40,000 40,000 SAR Bates 20,000 20,000 RE Blomfield-Smith 3,100 3,100 JM May 6,900 6,900 AS Robson 1,800 nil There were no changes to the above interests between the Information on the appointment of Directors and their year end and the date of this report.
Mr May is a Director of compensation for loss of office, as required by the Takeover Caledonia Investments plc which owned at 1 November 2009 Directive, is given on page 53.
17.8 per cent of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any Subsidiary Companies contract or arrangement with the Company.
The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2009, BEST Securities Limited made a loss after taxation of 3,348 2008: loss 4,678.
23 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued The Investment Manager per annum.
Any underperformance or outperformance in Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed excess of the cap is carried forward for use in the next 3 years Investment Manager Manager, engaged under the terms of fee calculations.
an Investment Management Agreement IMA effective from 1 October 2003 and varied with effect from 1 October 2008.
The Company has adopted the Fundamental Data Global Growth The IMA is terminable by one years notice from either party, Investment Trust Index as the benchmark against which the other than for cause.
The Manager has complied with the Companys performance is measured.
terms of the IMA throughout the year to 30 September 2009.
Interests in Share Capital Under the IMA the Manager is entitled to a base management Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to fee of 0.60% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the share capital, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on preceding financial period.
A performance fee at 6% is also pages 19 and 20. payable for any outperformance in the net asset value on a total return basis over the benchmark at the year end, with a cap on At 30 September 2009 and 1 November 2009 the following aggregate fees of 1% of net assets of the Company holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage Number held at 30 September 2009 Held 1 November 2009 Caledonia Investments plc 28,523,979 17.82 28,523,979 Funds managed by Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd 10,680,448 6.67 10,650,017 Alliance Trust Plc 6,854,298 4.28 6,813,697 Legal and General Group Plc 6,664,831 4.16 6,545,481 Brown Shipley & Company Limited 5,656,642 3.53 5,753,298 Axa Group 4,977,293 3.11 4,493,293 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 8 - Authority to allot Shares The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority to allot up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately 15 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Resolution 9 - Authority to issue Shares outside of Corporate Governance pre-emption rights The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on Rules Disclosure Rules require listed companies to disclose a pre-emptive basis, new Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate how they have applied the principles and complied with the nominal amount of 800,400, being approximately 5 per cent provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue, and to transfer Combined Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council or sell of Shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only FRC.
The provisions of the Combined Code issued by the FRC exercise this authority if they consider it to be advantageous in June 2008 are applicable to the year under review.
The related to the Company.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of the Investment Companies AIC provides Resolution 10 - Share Buy-Back Facility specific corporate governance guidelines to investment trusts.
This Directors seek to renew the authority to make market The Board has considered the principles and recommendations purchases of up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares in accordance of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules Guide for investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary confirmed that AIC member companies who report against Share capital at the date of this Report.
Ordinary Shares bought the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide for Investment back may be held in treasury, up to a maximum of 10 per cent of Companies will be meeting obligations in relation to the the Ordinary Share capital then in issue, for cancellation or sale at Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements of a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
The AIC Code can be viewed at: Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this http: www.
co. uk Documents Technical Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of .
pdf Shareholders or would result in an increase in net asset value per Share.
Treasury shares would not be sold at a discount greater The Board considers that reporting against the principles and than 5% below the net asset value per Ordinary Share for the day recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC preceding such sale.
Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Resolution 11 - New Articles of Association Resolution 11 proposes that the Company adopt new Articles of The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the Association which incorporate amendments to reflect the changes chief executive and of the executive directors remuneration.
in company law brought about by the final stages of the However, as all the Directors are non-executive, these provisions implementation of the Companies Act 2006, which came into are not applicable.
The Combined Code also sets out the case for effect on 1 October 2009, the Companies Shareholders' Rights establishing an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in Regulations 2009, which came into effect on 3 August 2009, and the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the other minor technical or clarifying changes.
The principal changes Board considers that an internal audit function is not relevant to in the new Articles of Association relate to the Companys the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
constitution and share capital and enhanced shareholder rights.
A summary of the proposed changes is set out in the Appendix to this Annual Report.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Throughout the year ended 30 September 2009 the Company owing to the short timeframe between the Companys complied with the provisions of the AIC Code other than for the financial year end and the publication of this Report, the following matters and any exceptions detailed in the schedule Company is not able to meet the Combined Codes below reporting on the Companys compliance with the AIC recommendation that the Notice of the AGM and related Codes Principles: papers be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
the Board has elected not to designate a senior non-executive Director, as it considers that each Director has different strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership: The Principles of the AIC Code the results of proxy voting at General Meetings will be provided The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three at the conclusion of the meeting to those attending instead of sections covering: being reported after the voting for each Resolution.
Details of - The Board proxy voting will also be made available on the Companys - Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager website after the relevant meeting.
- Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should The Chairman, Mr PSS Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his be independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Mr AS Robson, the chairman of the Audit Committee, and any of the other independent Directors, are available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussions with the Chairman.
A majority of the The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is regarded as independent of the board should be Investment Manager.
No member of the Board has been an employee of the Company, its Manager or any independent of the of its service providers.
Mr Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers plc which is the ultimate parent of manager Winterflood Securities Limited, the Companys Corporate Broker.
Mr Macpherson and Mr Robson are both non-executive directors of JPMorgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
Mr JM May is an executive director of Caledonia Investments plc a listed investment trust which has a large shareholding in the Company.
The Board does not consider that these appointments compromise their ability or judgement as Directors of the Company.
Each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
A procedure is in place for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
There has been no professional advice taken by the Directors during the year which has incurred expense to the Company.
Directors should be Under the Companys Articles of Association Directors are appointed until the first AGM following their elected for a fixed term appointment when it is required that they be elected by the Companys members.
Thereafter all Directors of no more than three submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Nomination for The individual performance of those Directors standing for re-election are evaluated by the remaining members re-election should not of the Board before a recommendation is put to the shareholders to vote in favour of their re-election.
be assumed but be based on disclosed The Board, through the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the procedures.
need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The board should The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of engagement which are available have a policy on tenure, for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
The Board acknowledges the which is disclosed in Code provisions relating to tenure but considers that a long association with the Company and experience of the annual report.
a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
Directors serving longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election following rigorous review.
There should be full The biographical details of each Director can be found on page 21 of this Report.
The Board has elected not disclosure of information to designate a senior non-executive Director, as it considers that each Director has different strengths and about the board qualities on which they may provide leadership.
The board should During the annual review and evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and of each Director, a aim to have a balance review of the composition and balance of the Board is also undertaken to ascertain the range of skills and of skills, experience, experience attributable to the Board members.
When considering the appointment of a new Director the ages and length Board factors in the existing skills and seeks to engage persons with complementary skills and experience.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors.
The board should The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has formalised a process to evaluate its own performance undertake a formal and that of its Chairman on an annual basis.
Board evaluation questionnaires are completed by each Director.
and rigorous annual The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board as a whole and the effectiveness evaluation of its own of the Board Committees and where necessary discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The performance and that Chairman absents himself from the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied of its committees and from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be individual directors.
satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
The Board has not considered it necessary to employ the services or to incur the additional expense of an external third party to conduct the evaluation process.
Director remuneration The Remuneration Committee periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with should reflect their the fees paid by the Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account duties, responsibilities the level of commitment and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements and the value of their for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53 and in time spent.
The independent The Board plans for its own succession.
The Nomination Committee, which comprises the whole Board, directors should take the considers the criteria for future Board appointments and the methods of recruitment, selection and lead in the appointment appointment.
When seeking a suitable candidate the Committee will seek assistance from the Boards own of new directors and contacts, its professional advisors and specialist recruitment consultants.
Mr May, as a non-independent the process should be Director, participates in the discussions at Nomination Committee meetings but does not vote on candidates disclosed in the for the appointment of new independent Directors.
Directors should New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the be offered relevant Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the training and induction.
Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
27 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued 11.
The chairman and Not applicable.
the board should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager 12.
Boards and The Board meets at least eight times per year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in managers should attendance at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster operate in a supportive, a supportive and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes: at regular board investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks: permitted investment types: gearing and borrowings meetings should be a allowable: treasury policy and the approval of the Companys financial statements and published reports.
review of investment Prior to each meeting, Directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information performance and on the Company's transactions and financial position and all Directors have timely access to all relevant associated matters, management, financial and regulatory information.
A representative of the Investment Manager attends each such as gearing, asset Board meeting enabling the Board to seek clarification on specific investment issues.
allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda give sufficient attention items under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the to overall strategy.
regular board meetings the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The board should The Management Engagement Committee meets twice a year to review the performance of the Investment regularly review both Manager and particularly its performance against that of the benchmark, the Fundamental Data Global the performance of, Growth Investment Trust Index.
The Committee considers the quality and cost of the service provided by and contractual the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on arrangements with, compliance with the Investment Restrictions set by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the Managers the manager compliance and control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The board should The Board has agreed detailed investment guidelines with the manager which are considered at Board agree policies with the meetings.
A representative of the Manager will also attend each meeting of the Board to address questions manager covering key on specific matters.
The Board has delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting operational issues.
powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for instructions.
The Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager sets out the limits of the Managers authority beyond which Board approval is required.
Boards should The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Company's shares within the monitor the level of the market and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
share price discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The board should The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all the Companys monitor and evaluate third party providers including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to other service providers.
ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
Annual inspection visits are undertaken at the offices of the Companys Administrator, the Registrars and the Share Purchase Scheme Administrators Shareholder Communications 19.
The board should A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each board regularly monitor the meeting.
Representatives of the Manager regularly meet with institutional shareholders and private client shareholder profile of asset managers.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board the company and put may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All in place a system for shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the canvassing shareholder Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Directors welcome the views of all views and for Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board communicating the representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the board's view to year.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a brief presentation to Shareholders shareholders.
covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
The board should All substantive communications regarding major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking normally take responinto account representations from the Manager, the Auditor, legal advisors, stockbroker and the sibility for, and have Company Secretary.
direct involvement in, the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders.
The should ensure that Manager reports on its marketing strategy for the Company and on any communications with its shareholders are shareholders.
The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provided with sufficient provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Company's activities, performance and principle risks information for them by means of informative Annual and Half Year reports and the Interim Management Statement.
This is to understand the risk: supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the reward balance to Company's shares and by regular updating of the Companys website.
which they are exposed by holding the shares.
29 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Board Committees Audit Committee The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and for decision by the full Board subject to which the Board has comprises the independent Directors, Mr AS Robson Committee delegated specific duties to Committees of the Board which Chairman, Mr SAR Bates, Mrs RE Blomfield-Smith and Mr PSS operate within written terms of reference.
All members of the Committee have recent and Services Limited acts as Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the Committee members are entitled to attend at Committee meetings unless formally invited by the The Audit Committees main functions are: Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for Board Committees To monitor the internal financial control and risk management are available from the Company Secretary.
systems on which the Company is reliant: To consider whether there is a need for the Company to have Management Engagement Committee its own internal audit function: The Management Engagement Committee meets at least twice To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial each year and comprises the independent Directors, Mr PSS statements of the Company by reviewing and challenging, Macpherson Chairman, Mrs RE Blomfield-Smith, Mr SAR Bates where necessary, the actions and judgements of the and Mr AS Robson.
The main functions of the Committee are to Investment Manager: define the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, To meet with the independent Auditor the Company to review ensuring that they follow good industry practice, are competitive their proposed audit programme of work and the subsequent and in the best interests of shareholders: and to monitor the Audit Report and to assess the effectiveness of the Audit Managers compliance with the terms of the Management process and the levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and Agreement and its investment performance.
The Committee also non-audit work: reviews the services and performance of the Companys other To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the third-party service providers.
A review of the Investment Manager appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Auditor, and to and the other service providers undertaken in November 2009, negotiate their remuneration and terms of engagement on audit concluded that the services provided to the Company were and non-audit work: satisfactory and that the Agreements entered into with them To monitor and review annually the external Auditors were operating in the best interests of the shareholders.
independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and The Audit Committee has approved and implemented a policy convenes to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services, the Board, its Committees and the Directors and to propose the taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting re-election of those Directors required to retire every three years Practices Board and does not believe there to be any impediment at the Annual General Meeting.
It also meets to consider the to the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Committee appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates for confirms that the Companys independent Auditor satisfies nomination may be sourced from outside of the Company using the tests of independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources third party search and selection services as well as potential and qualification.
candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
30 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Committee is responsible for ensuring that suitable internal Environmental, Social and Community Issues control systems are designed and implemented by the third party As the Company has no employees, accordingly it has no direct service providers to the Company to prevent and detect fraud and impact on social matters and invests in a variety of regions with error and is also responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of varying degrees of political and corporate governance standards.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing As such it is impractical for investment trusts in general to adopt a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant policy on environmental, social and community issues.
However, risks faced by the Company in line with the Turnbull guidance where the Board deems an issue to be of importance or sensitivity Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
it may, through the Investment Manager, use its voting rights and This process has been in place for the year under review and up contact with senior executives of an investee company to make its to the date of approval of this Report, and accords with the views known.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The risks of any failure of such controls are identified in a Risk Matrix which is regularly reviewed by the Board and which identifies the likelihood and severity of the impact of such risks and the controls in place to minimise such risks occurring.
The following are the key components which the Company has in place to provide effective internal control: The Board has agreed clearly defined investment criteria, which specifies levels of authority and exposure limits and reports on compliance with these criteria are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The contractual agreements with the Investment Manager and other third party service providers, and adherence to them are regularly reviewed: The Investment Managers Compliance Officer continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
As neither the Company nor the Group has any employees, the Company does not have a whistleblowing policy and procedure in place.
The Company delegates its main functions to third party providers each of whom report on their policies to the Audit Committee.
31 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Creditor Payment Policy In preparing the Group and Company financial statements the The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions Directors are required to: in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement ofselect suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Companymake judgements and estimates which are reasonable did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared Statement of Directors Responsibilities in compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report disclosed and explained therein: and the Group and Company financial statements in accordanceprovide additional disclosures where compliance with the with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company specific requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company to enable users to understand the impact of particular financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they transactions, events and conditions on the financial position are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance and performance: and with those International Financial Reporting Standards which haveprepare financial statements on a going concern basis been adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
They are Company will continue in business.
also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the financial performance and cash-flows of the Group and Company for the relevant period.
The Companies Act 2006 Act provides, in relation to such financial statements that, references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
32 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys website at www.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all of the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Going Concern After considering the Companys current financial resources, as the majority of the Net Assets of the Company are securities which are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors are satisfied that its resources are adequate for continuing in business for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis.
Declaration The non-executive Directors listed on page 21, being the persons responsible, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Management Report which comprises the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
By Order of the Board TR Smith for and on behalf of Phoenix Administration Services Limited Secretary 16 November 2009 Registered Office: Springfield Lodge Colchester Road Chelmsford, Essex CM2 5PW 33
