REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS PARENT COMPANY Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2009 which comprise the balance sheet, the accounting policies and the related notes.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
These parent company financial statements are set out on pages 83 to 98.
We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2009.
This separate report is set out on page 28.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises all information set out in the contents listing on page 1, except for the consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements of British Telecommunications plc.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Account ing Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 March 2009: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 15 May 2009 82 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the independent auditors - parent company FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC BRITISH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PLC PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES I Accounting basis Turnover from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are company refers to British Telecommunications plc BT plc.
These transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is separate financial statements of the company are presented as delivered and accepted by the customer.
required by the Companies Act 1985.
The separate financial Turnover from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised statements have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts turnover and under the historical cost convention as modied by the is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
revaluation of certain financial instruments at fair value.
However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, As permitted by Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985, the turnover is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended design and build software solutions, turnover is recognised by 31 March 2009 contain a consolidated statement of cash ows.
reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract FRS 1, Cash Flow Statements not to present its own cash ow costs or other measures of completion, such as contract milestone or statement.
In the case of time and materials contracts, The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended turnover is recognised as the service is rendered.
31 March 2009 contain related party disclosures.
Consequently, the Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8, Related arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions with other members of in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract the BT Group.
is deferred and recorded within debtors due after more than one year.
The BT plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended These costs are then recognised in the profit and loss account on a 31 March 2009 contain financial instruments disclosures which straight line basis over the remaining contractual term, unless the comply with FRS 29, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
pattern of service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
Consequently, the company is exempted by FRS 29 from providing its These costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments.
future activity, will generate future economic benets and are In the 2009 financial year, amounts due from group companies assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
have been reclassied between current Other investments and xed The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total asset Other investments and Loans and borrowings due within one expected contract turnover and costs, as well as reliable year and loans and borrowings due after more than one year which is measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the considered to be a more appropriate classication given the amounts financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable are not expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In addition, amounts owed by parent undertakings within revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the current asset debtors were reclassied to xed asset Other investments extent that such turnover is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised which is also considered to be a more appropriate classication.
turnover and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the Balance sheet comparative amounts at 31 March 2008 have been assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
reclassied to reduce current Other investments by 15,769m, The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the reduce current Debtors by 3,602m, reduce loans and borrowings period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
falling due within one year by 36,898m, increase xed asset Other Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the investments by 18,162m and increase loans and borrowings falling estimated turnover for a contract, the full contract life loss is due after more than one year by 35,689m to provide a more immediately recognised.
Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, II Turnover turnover is recognised for each element as if it were an individual Turnover represents the fair value of the consideration received or contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the discounts and sales taxes.
Turnover from the rendering of services and appropriate turnover recognition criteria applied to each element as the sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the described above.
economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the company, and the amount of turnover and the associated costs can III Research and development be measured reliably.
Where the company acts as agent in a Expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
transaction it recognises turnover net of directly attributable costs.
Turnover arising from separable installation and connection services IV Leases is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Turnover from the Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
Turnover from calls finance leases are recognised as liabilities.
The interest element of is recognised at the time the call is made over the companys network.
rental obligations is charged over the period of the finance lease and Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are repayments outstanding.
recognised as turnover as the service is provided.
Turnover arising If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit recognised in the income statement over the lease term.
Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 83 Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held by VIII Asset impairment non-financial assets the lessor are classied as operating leases by the lessee.
Operating Fixed assets are tested for impairment when an event that might lease rentals are charged against the profit and loss account on a affect asset values has occurred.
Goodwill is also reviewed for straight-line basis over the lease period.
If a sale and leaseback impairment at the end of the first financial year after acquisition.
transaction results in an operating lease, any profit or loss is An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future cash ows from operating the assets.
V Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional IX Stocks currency using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the Stocks mainly comprise items of equipment held for sale or rental and transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from consumable items.
settlement of such transactions, and from the translation of monetary Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for exchange rates are recognised in the profit and loss account except obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
when deferred in reserves as qualifying cash ow hedges.
X Redundancy costs Vl Goodwill Redundancy or leaver costs are payable when employment is Goodwill, arising from the purchase of businesses, represents the terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
value of the identiable net assets acquired.
Redundancy or leaver costs are charged against profit in the year Goodwill is amortised on a straight line basis from the time of in which the company is demonstrably committed to the employees acquisition over its useful economic life.
The economic life is normally leaving the company.
presumed to be a maximum of 20 years.
If a business is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised XI Post retirement benets goodwill is dealt with through the profit and loss account in the The company operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which period of disposal as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
is administered by an independent trustee for the majority of its employees.
VII Tangible xed assets The companys net obligation in respect of dened benefit Tangible xed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation.
pension plans, is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return Cost for their service to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its Cost in the case of network infrastructure and equipment includes present value, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The direct labour, contractors charges, payments on account, materials, discount rate used is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit direct labour and directly attributable overheads.
rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the companys obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualied Depreciation actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The net obligation Depreciation is provided on tangible xed assets on a straight line recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the dened basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to write off the benefit obligation less the fair value of the scheme assets.
costs over the estimated useful life taking into account any expected The profit and loss account charge is split between an operating residual values.
Freehold land is not subject to depreciation.
charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the The lives assigned to other significant tangible xed assets are: service costs which are spread systematically over the working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge relates to the unwinding of Land and buildings the discount applied to the liabilities of the scheme offset by the Freehold buildings 40 years expected return on the assets of the scheme, based on conditions Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of prevailing at the start of the year.
lease or 40 years, Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in whichever is the shorter which they occur and are presented in the reconciliation of Network infrastructure and equipment movement in equity shareholders funds.
Transmission equipment: Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried Duct 40 years out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustees at Cable 3 to 25 years intervals of not more than three years to determine the rates of Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on advice of the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years companys actuary, having regard to the results of these trustee Payphones, other network equipment 2 to 20 years valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
Other Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years XII Share based payment Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years The ultimate parent undertaking, BT Group plc, has a number of Software 2 to 5 years employee share schemes and share option plans, as detailed in note 30 in the BT plc consolidated financial statements, under which it makes Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of equity settled share based payments to certain employees of the the lease term or their useful economic life.
Equity settled share based payments are measured at fair useful lives are reassessed annually, and if necessary changes are value at the date of grant after taking into account the companys best recognised prospectively.
estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
For share based payments to employees of the company, the fair value determined at 84 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Parent company accounting policies the date of grant is expensed on a straight line basis together with a recognised in the profit and loss account recognised in equity until corresponding increase in equity over the vesting period.
the financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain Fair value is measured using either the Binomial or Monte Carlo or loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the profit and loss model, whichever is the most appropriate.
account, in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
XIII Deferred Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all timing differences Debtors which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Trade debtors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as original invoiced amount and subsequently carried at amortised cost more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profits from using the effective interest method less provisions made for doubtful which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Provisions are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses XIV Dividends experienced and general economic conditions.
Interim and final dividends are recognised when they are paid.
Cash XV Provisions Cash includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or bank overdrafts.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and Impairment of financial assets the amount can be reliably estimated.
Financial liabilities within The company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial provisions are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect is arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is material.
reduced with the loss being recognised in the profit and loss account.
The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that XVI Financial instruments assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future Financial assets cash ows discounted at the financial assets original effective Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss interest rate.
The impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for objectively to an event after the impairment was recognised and is the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so reversed to the extent the carrying value of the asset does not exceed designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category are its amortised cost at the date of reversal.
initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising changes in value recognised in the profit and loss account in the line the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the profit transaction.
The direct transaction costs are recognised immediately and loss account.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments in the income statement.
are taken through the profit and loss account if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event Loans and receivables occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income Loans and receivables are non derivative financial assets with xed or statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other available-for-sale are not recognised in the profit and loss account.
than: If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been those that the company intends to sell immediately or in the incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair short-term, which are classied as held for trading: value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a those for which the company may not recover substantially all of derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of its initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss is measured which are classied as available-for-sale.
as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value recognised in the profit and loss account in the line which most Financial liabilities appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Creditors Creditors are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the Fixed asset investments original invoiced amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost Fixed asset investments are stated at cost net of permanent using the effective interest method.
Loans and other borrowings Available-for-sale financial assets Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus Non derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other either specifically designated in this category or not classied in any borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or other re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with borrowing.
The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for borrowing is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses which are other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using Parent company accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 85 the effective interest method and if included in a fair value hedge periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed affects relationship are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the the profit and loss account.
hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised resultant amortisation of fair value movements are recognised in the asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same profit and loss profit and loss account.
account line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most Financial guarantees appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the Fair value hedge amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of to provisions and the amount initially determined less, when the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
unrecognised rm commitments, the change in fair value of the derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in Derivative financial instruments the same line in the profit and loss account, together with any The company uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
The attributable to the hedged risk.
company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign and initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
Any ineffectiveness in the profit and loss account in net finance income.
However, where arising on a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant recognised in net finance income.
gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where Discontinuance of hedge accounting they are not designated in a hedging relationship or have a maturity Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging period within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the have a maturity period greater than 12 months and are designated in hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes a hedge relationship, they are classied within either non current designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset assets or non current liabilities.
or liability remains or highly probable transaction is still expected to Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host occur.
Under a cash ow hedge the cumulative gain or loss at that contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction host contracts are not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial of embedded derivatives are recognised in the profit and loss account asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the profit and transaction.
Under a hedge of a net investment the cumulative gain or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is Hedge accounting sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer qualies for hedge To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the profit effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested and loss account as part of the profit on disposal when the net for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the investment in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge remains in operation.
hedge the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is amortised to the profit and loss account using the Cash ow hedge effective interest method over the remaining term of the hedged When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the item.
variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the same line in the profit and loss account in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the profit and loss account.
For highly probable transactions, when the transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied into the profit and loss account in the same period or 86 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Parent company accounting policies PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET As at 31 March British Telecommunications plc parent company balance sheet 2009 2008 Notes m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 1 382 408 Tangible assets 2 15,365 15,270 Derivative financial instruments 3 2,456 310 Investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures 4 44,584 45,572 Other investments 5 18,813 18,478 Total xed assets 81,600 80,038 Current assets Stocks 75 86 Debtors 6 3,853 4,327 Derivative financial instruments 3 244 77 Other investments 5 3,562 4,303 Cash at bank and in hand 27 187 Total current assets 7,761 8,980 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Loans and other borrowings 7 5,061 9,297 Derivative financial instruments 3 340 267 Other creditors 8 5,766 5,789 Total creditors: amounts falling due within one year 11,167 15,353 Net current liabilities 3,406 6,373 Total assets less current liabilities 78,194 73,665 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Loans and other borrowings 7 60,564 55,653 Derivative financial instruments 3 427 805 Other creditors 9 738 675 Total creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 61,729 57,133 Provisions for liabilities and charges Deferred taxation 10 1,811 1,818 Other provisions 10 579 286 Total provisions for liabilities and charges 2,390 2,104 Net assets excluding pension obligation asset 14,075 14,428 Pension obligation asset 16 2,793 2,054 Net assets including pension obligation asset 11,282 16,482 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 11 2,172 2,172 Share premium account 12 8,000 8,000 Other reserves 13 1,238 821 profit and loss account 12 128 5,489 Equity shareholders funds 11,282 16,482 The financial statements of the company on pages 83 to 98 were approved by the board of directors on 14 May 2009 and were signed on its behalf by Tony Chanmugam Director Parent company balance sheet British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 87
