REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Introduction protocol label switching MPLS services to large business customers BT is a communications services company which operates in more reduced by over 40%.
We are proud to serve customers that range from some of the largest multinational corporations and public Building future networks sector organisations in the world, through the small business sector to The digital revolution is opening up a world of new possibilities for all millions of families and residential customers in the UK.
It means people can work together and collaborate We are at the heart of a communications revolution which is more effectively than ever before.
They can be entertained and continuing to improve the quality of peoples lives and the informed in ways that would have been hard to imagine just a few effectiveness of their businesses.
It is our job to bring together the years ago.
We think this revolution has only just begun, and we are best technology to create services that our customers need while investing in our networks, systems and services to ensure that they offering them the very best value.
In July 2008, we announced plans to make Britains biggest ever Our 2009 performance investment in a bre-based super-fast broadband network.
We will In 2009, in spite of the economic downturn, three of our lines of spend 1.5bn making bre based services available to around 40% of business BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach have each the UKs homes and businesses by 2012.
This will deliver a range of performed well.
Both BT Retail and Openreach delivered EBITDA services with top speeds of up to 100Mb, allowing customers growth while in BT Wholesale the rate of decline in revenue has simultaneously to run multiple bandwidth-hungry applications, such slowed.
This good performance was primarily due to the effective as high-denition movies, gaming, complex graphics and videos: all delivery of cost savings.
However, these achievements were with greatly improved upload as well as download speeds.
overshadowed by the unacceptable performance in BT Global These plans are conditional on our ability to make a proper return Services.
on our investment, and we have seen encouraging progress in establishing the right regulatory basis for this investment.
The issues in BT Global Services Super-fast broadband will run on BTs 21CN infrastructure.
21CN During the 2009 financial year, the level of profitability in BT Global is our next generation global platform and has been at the heart of Services fell signicantly.
This was caused by a combination of higher BTs transformation for some years.
costs, the slow delivery of cost reduction initiatives and worsening We have now completed the new 21CN core network which is a economic conditions.
This led to the conclusion that previous unied software driven platform.
It will help us meet our customers estimates of profitability for some of our major contracts were no needs faster and more efficiently whether they are delivered over longer likely to be achieved.
It will reduce the time it takes to get new services to On page 3 we explain the action taken as a result of these issues market, eliminating duplication and reducing costs.
and how BT Global Services is being restructured to streamline and Our agship MPLS network service provides coverage and support refocus the business.
around the world from 875 BT managed points of presence and around 2,600 in partnership.
Our focus We aim to make BT a better business and drive shareholder value by Becoming more agile delivering on our current strategic priorities better, faster and Our goal is to combine the strengths of being a large company with cheaper.
the speed and exibility of a small company.
Our people are These are: becoming more agile in the way they work together to serve customers.
We are making our company more agile as well, cutting providing excellent customer service out any bureaucracy that can slow us down.
As a result we will be building future networks more responsive to customer needs.
We are continuing to simplify our business to give people more authority and to allow them to do their jobs more effectively.
Providing excellent customer service As we become a more agile organisation, we reduce our costs as Our goal is to provide excellent service in every market in which we well as the number of people we need to employ.
In the past year we operate by putting our customers at the heart of everything we do.
have reduced the number of full-time employees by around 5,000.
In Every part of BT is taking action to make substantial addition to this, the number of indirect employees working through improvements to the delivery of our services.
That means getting agencies or third party contractors was reduced by around 10,000, things right first time every time, keeping our promises to our giving a reduction in our total labour resource of some 15,000.
We customers and meeting or exceeding their expectations.
expect further reductions of a similar level in 2010.
We have sought We continually track improvements that reect the real experience to retain our permanent workforce through redeployment and of our customers from start to nish.
We have made significant retraining, and will continue to do so.
We continue our drive to progress in the last 12 months across the whole range of our reduce costs across the business, and made further progress in 2009 customers and we are determined to make further improvements.
In towards transforming our cost base.
the highly competitive markets in which we operate we believe that Three out of four of our lines of business have made a strong being recognised for outstanding customer service is a key contribution towards the delivery of cost savings, although BT Global differentiator for BT.
Services still has to control costs more tightly and deliver greater As an example of the progress we are making in the consumer savings.
market, the time taken to get through to an advisor fell by 65% in the past year.
Our customers experienced a reduction of more than 20% Maintaining a sustainable business in the number of line faults, which means that a line will go wrong on BT is committed to contributing positively to the communities in average just once every 13 years.
In the small business market, there which it works and to operating in a socially responsible way.
We are was a 20% improvement in the average time to clear telephony using communications technology to help create a better, more network faults, while the average time to provide international multisustainable world.
Our goal is to help meet the challenge of climate 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review change, to promote a more inclusive society and to enable products and services, while BT Operate is responsible for making sustainable economic growth.
We believe that being a recognised leader in the eld of corporate responsibility contributes to shareholder value.
It builds our brand Line of business financial performance and is central to the way we do business.
It encourages the best The financial performance of each of the lines of business for 2009 people to want to work for BT.
It is a powerful reason for customers to and 2008 is discussed in this Business review.
We measure the do business with us and stay loyal to us.
financial performance of BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach We commit a minimum of 1% of our pre-tax profits to activities based on EBITDA and operating profit before specic items.
We invested 25m, comprising time, cash and 2009, we measure the results of BT Global Services on an adjusted in-kind contributions, in the community in 2009.
Of this amount, basis, being before the impact of contract and financial review 2.3m was in the form of charitable donations.
For further discussion of these items, see pages 23 and 24.
A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to group Measuring our performance operating profit loss by line of business, and for the group, is For 2009, the key performance indicators KPIs against which we provided in the table at the foot of pages 14 and 15. measured the delivery of our strategy were: BT Global Services customer service Business overview free cash ow.
BT Global Services is a provider of networked IT products, services and solutions.
We aim to be the partner of choice for large enterprise Our customer service results were encouraging and we delivered and government customers in the UK and globally.
significant improvements during the year.
However, the unacceptable We have created a powerful combination of networked IT and performance in BT Global Services impacted free cash ow, which professional services capabilities together with strong customer was well below target.
partnerships, investing and innovating together to build long-term value.
Customer service The Gartner Groups research organisation recognises BT as a We set ourselves a group-wide stretching target in 2009 of global leader in Gartners Magic Quadrant for Network Service improving right first time by 24%.
We achieved an increase of 17%, Providers, and industry analysts Telemark Services has given BT its compared with 9% in 2008 and we are targeting further platinum award, reecting customer satisfaction with our delivery of improvements in 2010.
We are now delivering excellent customer global data virtual private network services, regarded as best in class.
service levels in many areas.
Customer service improvements in 2009 included a reduction of more than 40% in the average time to provide international MPLS Free cash ow services and a 6% improvement in the delivery of international a Free cash ow in 2009 was 1,666m, compared with 2,462m in repairs within the target time.
We have more than 3,400 points of presence in more than 170 countries.
We are the largest supplier of networked IT services to UK Outlook national and local government.
We expect revenue to decline by 4% to 5% in the 2010 financial year, Despite these strengths, during 2009 the level of profitability in reecting a continuation of the trends seen towards the end of the BT Global Services fell signicantly.
2009 financial year, and the impact of lower mobile termination As explained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section in this rates, together with the impact of refocusing BT Global Services.
years and previous years annual reports, our pricing, cost and We expect to deliver a net reduction in group capital expenditure profitability estimates for major contracts generally include longand operating costs of well over 1bn in 2010.
Included within this is term cost savings that we expect to make over the life of the contract.
a reduction in group capital expenditure to around 2.7bn.
In 2009, a failure to achieve these anticipated savings made a number of these contracts less profitable or even loss making, How we are structured adversely impacting our profits.
We have four customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
These are supported by two Actions taken internal functional units: BT Design and BT Operate.
The BT Group plc Board changed the senior management team within BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly in the UK, BT Global Services, with a new Chief Executive for the division where we are the largest communications services provider to the appointed in October 2008.
The new teams brief was to address the residential and business markets.
BT Global Services operates in the cost base, to bring greater focus to the profitability of new contract UK and globally.
wins and to reduce shortfalls in delivery performance on existing BT is one of Europes largest and most successful communications contracts.
The new management team undertook an extensive review wholesalers to other communications providers CPs.
In the UK we of BT Global Services financial position, contracts and operations.
support CPs through BT Wholesale and Openreach, and The financial review covered the financial performance of BT Global internationally through Global Telecoms Markets, an operating unit of Services and its balance sheet position.
The contract reviews covered BT Global Services.
the largest and most complex contracts and were conducted jointly We have integrated our networks, IT and testing facilities which with external advisors.
Having completed the contract and financial are managed by BT Design and BT Operate.
specifically, BT Design reviews, a charge of 1.6bn was recognised, which includes 1.2bn deploys platforms, IT systems and processes that support our relating to the two major contracts that are the subject of ongoing commercial negotiations.
These charges reect a more cautious view of the recognition of future cost efficiencies and other changes in underlying assumptions and estimates, particularly in the light of the a Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure provided in addition to disclosure requirements defined current economic outlook.
1.3bn of the total charge relates to under IFRS.
The rationale for using non-GAAP measures is explained on pages 14, 23 and 24, and a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable IFRS indicator is provided on page 18.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 3 contract costs which had been previously capitalised on the balance continued rationalisation of systems and networks, reducing the sheet.
number of systems by a third and halving the number of global BT Global Services management team is implementing a networks, thereby removing duplication and enabling significant number of process improvements.
Some of these were in place by cost savings the end of 2009, the rest are being implemented in 2010.
These restructuring corporate support functions, to serve the three include undertaking more regular contract reviews to assess customer segments more efficiently and effectively commercial risks and opportunities as part of a strengthened strategic partnering for sales, service and infrastructure.
contract governance process that combines operational, financial and risk reporting.
Additional scrutiny of contracts and cost As a result of this operational review, the group has recorded transformation plans have been put in place and will continue to be specic item restructuring charges of 280m in 2009, with further conducted on a rigorous and regular basis involving strong charges of approximately 420m in total expected to be recorded independent oversight of assumptions and estimates for new and over the next two financial years, the majority in 2010.
We are also placing greater focus on profitable charges predominantly arise from legacy networks and products sectors, setting stringent win criteria and enhancing due diligence rationalisation and restructuring costs associated with people and around our ability and readiness to meet our delivery requirements property.
Further analysis of these charges, including their cashow on all major contracts.
impact, is provided in the Specic items section of the Financial Immediate action has also been taken to address the cost base, review on pages 16 and 17. with particular focus on external procurement and total labour resource.
We reviewed rates across our contractor base and Financial performance 2009 2008 successfully reduced these rates by up to 35%.
We have addressed m m spend of 450m with suppliers across seven categories of Revenue 8,751 7,889 expenditure, including our contractor base, and have successfully a Adjusted gross profit 2,553 2,839 renegotiated contracts resulting in price reductions of 12% on a Adjusted SG&A costs 2,248 1,978 average, and up to 35% in some categories.
In addition, we have a Adjusted EBITDA 305 861 focused on a number of areas of significant discretionary expenditure Contract and financial review charges 1,639 including travel, consultancy and conferencing and have achieved EBITDA 1,334 861 reductions in these areas.
These actions are expected to deliver b Operating loss profit 2,110 117 sustainable cost reductions in the 2010 financial year.
a Adjusted items are before contract and financial review charges and specific items.
How BT Global Services is changing The operational review was completed towards the end of 2009, In 2009, BT Global Services revenue increased by 11% to 8,751m resulting in a revised operating model and restructuring plan which 2008: 7,889m.
Revenue in 2009 includes the impact of foreign will reshape and refocus the business, further enhancing BT Global exchange rate movements of 588m and acquisitions of 291m.
Services ability to serve customers and establish a signicantly lower Excluding these, underlying revenue was 7,872m, compared with cost base.
Revenue from outside the Under the new operating model, BT Global Services will focus on UK has increased to 47% of BT Global Services total revenue 2008: three customer segments: 40%, reecting the impact of organic growth as well as the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and overseas acquisitions.
being the number one provider of networked IT services to Revenue from managed network solutions increased by 15% to corporate and public sector customers in the UK, building on BT 5,251m.
The increase was driven by growth in revenue from both Global Services strong market position and the groups 21CN networked IT services and MPLS and reects the impact of foreign products and services exchange rate movements and acquisitions, together with providing networked IT services to key multinational customers, substitution of UK calls and lines.
Revenue from calls and lines differentiating BT Global Services through seamless global decreased by 8% to 1,095m.
The decrease was due to the gradual connectivity and delivery of BTs core portfolio of products and decline in this revenue stream as customers switch to more email, IP services network and conferencing products as shown by the growth in creating a BT Global Services Enterprises unit consisting of a managed network solutions.
Other revenue increased by 12% to discrete portfolio of businesses addressing specic customer 2,049m.
The increase was mainly driven by growth in revenue needs in key countries.
from the global carrier business and reects the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and acquisitions.
During the year, we significant structural changes are being implemented.
The won new networked IT services contracts worth 5.5bn 2008: majority will be completed in 2010 in order to deliver the benets 5.0bn.
Networked IT services contracts represent 68% of our total of the new operating model which include: order value of 8.0bn 2008: 8.0bn.
Adjusted gross profit decreased by 10% to 2,553m in 2009 integrated sales, marketing, professional services, account 2008: 2,839m, primarily due to high costs and the continued management and delivery capability, competing effectively in decline in higher margin UK business.
Including the impact of each target market contract and financial review charges of 1.6bn, gross profit in enhanced bid management and start-up processes to improve win 2009 decreased by 67% to 942m.
rates on selected deals and ensure standardisation and quality of Gross profit is revenue less costs directly attributable to the delivery provision of products and services reected in revenue in the a single global service model, consolidating a large number of period.
Selling, general and administrative SG&A costs are those individual centres into a small number of larger operational hubs, costs that are ancilliary to the business processes of providing which will provide a single point of customer contact and enable products and services and are the general business operating costs.
improved right first time customer service Adjusted SG&A costs increased by 14% to 2,248m in 2009 4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review 2008: 1,978m.
SG&A costs include the impact of foreign Managed solutions revenue increased by 14% to 519m in 2009 exchange rate movements of 221m and acquisitions of 151m.
2008: 456m due to growth in BT Business and reecting the Excluding these, underlying adjusted SG&A costs decreased by 5% to acquisitions of Basilica and Lynx in the second quarter of 2008.
1,876m reecting the renewed focus from the new management Towards the end of 2009 the group saw a slowdown in new team on total labour resource, supplier negotiation and discretionary contracts, reecting the impact of the current economic and general overhead expenditure in the second half of 2009. environment on the SME sector.
Including the impact of the contract and financial review charges of Broadband and convergence revenue increased by 9% to 28m included within SG&A costs, SG&A costs increased by 15% to 1,298m in 2009 2008: 1,189m, reecting the successful 2,276m.
retention of customers in the maturing broadband market, together The decrease in gross profit together with the impact of higher with revenue from services such as BT Vision and mobility.
The SG&A costs resulted in adjusted EBITDA of 305m, a reduction of broadband installed base increased by 355,000, to 4.8m customers 556m compared with 2008.
Depreciation and amortisation at 31 March 2009.
These net additions represented a 31% share of increased by 4% to 776m 2008: 744m.
The increase reects the the total broadband Digital subscriber line DSL and Local loop increased investment in our global infrastructure, customer related unbundling LLU net additions in 2009.
At 31 March 2009, our capital expenditure and the impact of acquisitions, as well as the share of the installed base was 34% 2008: 35%.
impact of foreign exchange movements.
Calls and lines revenue decreased by 7% in 2009 to 4,825m, The above factors resulted in an operating loss of 2,110m, reecting the increasingly competitive environment and further compared with an operating profit of 117m in 2008. market declines.
Other revenue increased by 6% to 1,470m in 2009 2008: BT Retail 1,382m, driven by growth in BT Conferencing and the acquisition Business overview of Wire One in May 2008.
BT Retail aims to help its customers enhance the way they live their Gross profit increased by 2% in 2009 to 3,186m 2008: lives and run their businesses.
At home we enable our customers to 3,114m.
Gross profit margin increased by 0.9% to 38% in 2009 keep in touch with friends and families and to enjoy fast, reliable, 2008: 37%.
secure and safe connection to the internet.
We are bringing SG&A costs were 1,552m in 2009, compared with 1,619m in broadband to the TV and TV to broadband so that people can watch 2008.
The 4% reduction in SG&A costs was driven by a focus on what they want when they want.
At work we serve small and mediumcost transformation, labour efficiency and supplier savings, being sized enterprises SMEs typically with up to 1,000 employees, partially offset by the integration of acquisitions and foreign although some are signicantly larger and enable them to cut their exchange.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions of 34m and foreign costs and improve their service by using communications and IT exchange movements of 12m, underlying SG&A costs of 1,506m services that were once available only to the largest businesses.
We do reduced by 7% in 2009. this by taking the drudgery out of implementing new technologies so The above factors resulted in EBITDA increasing by 9% to our customers can focus on doing what they do best.
1,634m in 2009 2008: 1,495m, and a 15% improvement in There are four divisions in BT Retail: BT Consumer, BT Business, operating profit to 1,209m in 2009 2008: 1,050m.
BT Ireland and BT Enterprises.
We are the UKs largest communications provider, with 20.7m BT Wholesale xed lines and 4.8m broadband lines.
Business overview BT Wholesales strategy is to transform itself from a traditional, Financial performance high-volume product wholesaler, to a next generation 2009 2008 communications products wholesaler and managed solutions m m provider.
We are establishing BT as a leading provider of innovative Revenue 8,471 8,477 managed network solutions that will enable our customers to serve Gross profit 3,186 3,114 their customers, manage their costs and transform their businesses.
SG&A costs 1,552 1,619 This means helping our customers operate in a network lite way.
If EBITDA 1,634 1,495 they have their own infrastructure and platforms, we can manage Operating profit 1,209 1,050 them.
If they do not, we can provide them.
Our customers gain access to BTs platforms, skills, investment In 2009, BT Retail revenue was at year on year at 8,471m 2008: and technology, and can benefit from the economies of scale we 8,477m, reecting growth in revenue from broadband and bring.
convergence, managed solutions and conferencing, offset by a BT Wholesale has around 700 customers in the UK, comprising decline in revenue from calls and lines.
Revenue includes 65m in xed and mobile operators, internet service providers and other respect of foreign exchange rate movements, and 146m in respect CPs.
BT Wholesale leads the wholesale sector worldwide, working of acquisitions.
Excluding these, underlying revenue of 8,260m closely with the Global Telecoms Markets unit of BT Global Services declined by 3% compared with reported revenue in 2008. to meet our wholesale customers' global requirements.
2009 2008 We manage around 60% of the ADSL broadband lines trafc in m m the UK and support the voice requirements of more than a third of BT Retail external revenue all homes and businesses.
We also play a central role in helping Managed solutions 519 456 mobile operators manage the connections between their base Broadband and convergence 1,298 1,189 stations and the core UK network.
Calls and lines 4,825 5,167 Other 1,470 1,382 Total external revenue 8,112 8,194 Internal revenue 359 283 Total 8,471 8,477 Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 5 Financial performance In 2009, Openreach revenue decreased by 1% to 5,231m 2008: 2009 2008 5,266m.
This decrease has been driven by reduced connections as m m the wholesale line rental WLR and local loop unbundling LLU Revenue 4,658 4,959 markets react to the economic slowdown.
Ethernet and LLU now Internal revenue 1,228 1,252 forms just over 23% of our revenue, with WLR at 59%.
External revenue 3,430 3,707 External revenue increased by 10% to 978m in 2009 2008: Gross profit 1,427 1,593 886m, reecting the continued growth of the broadband and SG&A costs 161 198 Ethernet markets and active competition among CPs.
In 2009, CPs EBITDA 1,266 1,395 have focused more on obtaining returns from this investment, partly Operating profit 580 502 as a response to the changing economic environment.
External revenues now form 19% of our revenue compared with 17% in 2008.
In 2009, BT Wholesale revenue declined by 6% to 4,658m 2008: Revenue from other BT lines of business decreased by 3% to 4,959m.
These reductions reect the 624m primarily due to the continued trend of CPs switching to shift of WLR and LLU volumes from other BT lines of businesses to LLU provided by Openreach.
Revenue from the transit business external CPs.
These reductions have been partially mitigated by the declined by 16% to 1,134m 2008: 1,349m.
The decline in the significant growth in the Ethernet portfolio, assisted by the launch transit business has arisen as mobile operators build their own of new products towards the end of 2009. networks and are able to bypass BT.
These declines, however, have Operating costs decreased by 4% in 2009 2008: 2% increase.
been partially offset by growth in the managed network solutions The decrease in the year reects the success in our cost saving business, where revenue increased by 76% to 518m 2008: initiatives primarily around improving our service and structuring 295m, principally due to new contracts signed in the year.
our business so it is better equipped with a more exible and agile Gross profit decreased by 10% to 1,427m in 2009 2008: workforce for the future.
BT Wholesale reduced the gross margin impact of the Over the past few years, we have made significant investments in revenue declines through focused margin management initiatives.
We have seen savings in our service level The impact of some of the downward trends on our revenue and guarantee payments, which have reduced by 49% in 2009, despite gross margin has been offset by our continued focus on reducing starting to pay them out to external CPs proactively as opposed to on costs.
In 2009, SG&A costs decreased 19% to 161m 2008: a claims basis.
BT Wholesale has benefited from continued cost efficiency EBITDA increased by 4% to 1,996m in 2009 2008: 1,911m.
programmes including the right first time initiative, which aims to EBITDA margin was up in 2009 at 38% against 2008, at 36%.
reduce or eliminate the cost of failure from existing processes.
Depreciation and amortisation was 778m in 2009, 13% higher than EBITDA decreased by 9% to 1,266m in 2009 2008: 1,395m.
The increase in 2009 is mainly driven by high value software EBITDA margin in 2009 was 27%, compared with 28% in 2008. being brought into use and the ow through of high capital Depreciation and amortisation decreased by 23% to 686m as a investment in 2008. result of lower depreciation on legacy assets 2008: 893m.
Operating profit was 1,218m in the 2009 financial year, Largely due to lower depreciation and amortisation, operating broadly at when compared with 2008. profit increased by 16% to 580m in 2009 2008: 502m.
BT Design Openreach BT Design is responsible for designing and building the platforms, IT Business overview systems and processes that support the products and services we Openreach is responsible for the crucial first mile of the provide to our customers around the world.
It is also responsible for telecommunications network in the UK.
It offers all CPs currently, network planning and the implementation of BTs global 21CN more than 420 including other BT lines of business fair, equal and platform.
open access to our access and backhaul networks.
The development activities undertaken by BT Design are aligned One of the UKs vital infrastructure assets, this first mile connects with customer needs and the requirements of BTs customer-facing millions of homes and businesses to local telephone exchanges, via businesses.
BT Design has simplied and automated BTs processes xed-line local and backhaul connections.
so that customers can choose to do it all themselves, ask for Openreachs 21,000 eld engineers work on behalf of all CPs, managed services or a combination of the two.
New products and enabling them to provide their customers with a range of services services are created using agile development methods and from analogue telephone lines to complex networked IT services.
It is resource management principles to increase the productivity of committed to delivering a better network and an environment in both in-house and third-party development resources.
BTs which its customers can thrive.
platforms have been built in an open way to facilitate collaboration Our strategy in 2009 was to continue to deliver and comply with with third-party developers.
the Undertakings made to Ofcom, while driving efficiencies, In 2009, BT Design was able to deliver significant cost savings providing the right levels of resourcing and enhancing service levels.
for the group, largely as a result of a reduction in its workforce, at the same time as increasing output.
Financial performance 2009 2008 m m BT Operate Revenue 5,231 5,266 BT Operate is responsible for making sure that BTs products and Internal revenue 4,253 4,380 services run smoothly.
It manages BTs IT and network infrastructure External revenue 978 886 platforms as a single converged operation providing a seamless Operating costs 3,235 3,355 information and communications technology ICT infrastructure.
BT EBITDA 1,996 1,911 Operate also runs parts of other CPs networks on behalf of the Operating profit 1,218 1,222 customer-facing lines of business.
The scope of its operations enables 6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review it to achieve efficiency and avoid duplication and enhance our Learning and development customers experience.
BT Operate also sets and manages security We offer employees a wide range of learning and re-skilling policy and processes throughout BT enabling us to meet the security opportunities.
Online and instructor-led courses are available requirements of our customers, both in the UK and globally.
through Route2Learn, our group-wide web-based learning portal.
BT Operate manages the groups energy policy, which aims to Key to delivering excellent customer service is developing a reduce consumption, establish security of supply and reduce carbon customer-centric culture in BT, giving our people the skills and the emissions.
The renewal of our green energy contract in 2007 until tools necessary to ensure that every customer experience is an 2010 means that we now meet approximately 40% of our excellent one.
A number of development initiatives designed to electricity needs in the UK from renewable sources and almost 60% improve our right first time performance were launched in 2009. from combined heat and power generation.
We are investigating BT employees are encouraged to volunteer in their communities how to use more renewable electricity or new technologies more than 3,000 people are actively involved.
The community throughout our international operations.
benets from their involvement, while they benefit from the We were one of the first companies in the UK to achieve the new, opportunity to enhance existing skills and acquire new ones.
independently assessed Carbon Trust Standard certication, in We also participate in the Federated Apprentice Scheme, which recognition of our preparation for the UK Governments new Carbon offers young adults employed by SMEs in the South of England the Reduction Commitment.
Starting in 2010, this new legislation will opportunity to gain a qualication in ICT.
rank organisations in the UK on energy performance bonuses and We have recently introduced alternatives to voluntary redundancy penalties will be administered through the Environment Agency.
and the emphasis has shifted to redeployment, retraining and skills Organisations will be required to purchase carbon allowances management.
We have, for example, developed an innovative effectively permits to use energy at the start of each year.
scheme in which BT employees are placed with other organisations to In 2009, BT Operate achieved a significant reduction in its work outside BT to help develop their skills.
We are working with an workforce, more efficient business operations and improved supply external recruitment agency to use their network to maximise these chain management.
As our skills requirements change, so those people can be brought back in house.
Our resources Our trusted reputation Reward and recognition We are proud to have a strong brand that is widely recognised in the We conduct a review of salaries every year.
The 2009 review took into UK and around the world.
It helps to shape our relationships with account the current difficult economic climate, market conditions and customers and suppliers and between the people who work for the the need to maintain a sustainable and competitive cost base.
BT was named the UKs strongest telecommunications Following discussions with our trades unions, BT has advised all brand and 21st overall in the 2009 Business Superbrands survey.
This employees including senior executives that there will be no ranks brands according to the views of an expert panel and more than increases to salary in the UK arising from the 2009 review.
principle will be followed as closely as possible in all other countries in The strength of BTs brand is more valuable than ever, as which we operate.
customers turn to suppliers they know they can rely on.
So, in turn, Around 40,000 managers are eligible for variable, performancewe have focused intensely on customer service in the past year and related bonuses.
The long-term incentives for our most senior will continue to do so in the year ahead.
managers are linked to BTs total shareholder return performance Our partnership with the London 2012 Olympic Games and measured over a period of three years.
For Openreach senior Paralympic Games is a powerful signal of the inspiring and innovative managers, the key measure is Openreachs performance over a threebrand we aim to be.
We have already started delivering the year period.
For 2009, our bonus scheme was restructured to communications services network for the 2012 Games at locations improve alignment to overall business results and affordability.
We look forward to using our experience, people and Employees outside the UK receive an annual award of free BT technology to realise the potential of this exciting event over the next shares or a cash equivalent depending on local legal and or three years.
In the UK, employees receive free broadband.
Employees in more than 25 countries also have the Our people opportunity to save to buy BT shares at a discount to the price at the At 31 March 2009, BT employed around 85,000 full-time equivalent start of the savings period.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment people in the UK and around 20,000 outside the UK.
We also employ Plan, UK employees can buy BT shares from their pre-tax and pre- 42,000 people indirectly, through agencies and contractors, giving National Insurance salaries.
More than 50% of eligible employees BT a total labour resource TLR of around 147,000. participate in one or more of these plans.
Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and motivated people who can make a difference for customers, Pensions shareholders, the company and themselves.
Most of our UK employees are members of a pension scheme, either the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, a dened benefit scheme, or until Leadership recently, the BT Retirement Plan BTRP, a money purchase scheme.
The quality of our leadership is vital to the transformation of BT.
We The BTPS was closed to new members on 31 March 2001 and the ensure that leaders at all levels understand what is expected of them, BTRP on 31 March 2009. including their sustainability obligations, have access to appropriate During 2009 we conducted a review of our UK pension development opportunities and are able to benchmark their arrangements, including extensive consultation with the trade unions performance against that of their peers.
The aim was to ensure the schemes remain exible, fair and sustainable for the long term.
Changes to future benefit accruals under the BTPS were effective from 1 April 2009.
Benets built up before 1 April 2009 remain linked to final pensionable salary.
The changes include increasing the Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 7 normal retirement age to 65, moving to a career average revalued Open innovation earnings basis, changes to member contributions and ceasing to We embrace open innovation, reaching out beyond the company to contract out of the State Second Pension.
nd the best people and the best ideas, wherever they are in the The BTPS has around 64,000 active members, 181,000 world.
We are involved in partnerships at every stage of the pensioners and 96,000 deferred members.
innovation process, from scientific research to the development of The BT Retirement Saving Scheme was set up on 1 April 2009 as a new products and services.
successor to the BTRP and the Syntegra Limited Flexible Pensions We have dedicated innovation scanning teams in the US, Asia, Plan SLFPP.
It is a contract-based, dened contribution Europe and the Middle East who identify more than 600 new arrangement, which means that what the pension members receive is technologies, business propositions and market trends a year.
linked to contributions paid, the performance of the fund and the In 2009, we invested 1,119m 2008: 1,252m in R&D to annuity rates at retirement, rather than their final BT salary.
Former support our drive for innovation.
This investment comprised BTRP and SLFPP members are being invited to transfer their capitalised software development costs of 529m 2008: 720m accumulated assets to this scheme.
All these pension schemes are and R&D operating costs of 590m 2008: 532m.
We work with more than 30 universities around the world and We have reached agreement with the Trustee of the BTPS that have key partner relationships with the University of Cambridge, deficit contributions of 525m per annum will be made in cash, or in University of Oxford, University College London and MIT specie, over the next three years.
This agreement has been approved Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
See Pensions in the Financial review on Building on our long tradition of innovation, we led patent page 19 for further details.
We routinely seek patent protection in different countries including the US, Japan, France, Flexibility and diversity Germany and China, and we currently maintain a total worldwide We continue to create an inclusive working environment in which portfolio of around 7,600 patents and applications.
employees can develop their careers regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, Corporate responsibility sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring We measure our progress towards our corporate responsibility CR responsibilities.
This inclusiveness is supported by our exible goals using our non-financial KPIs.
We also report the direct costs to working arrangements.
BT and the indirect impacts on society associated with the way we Examples of diversity include the fact that 22% of our workforce is manage environmental and social issues.
This is in accordance with the female and women hold 21% of our top 400 leadership roles.
In principles of the Connected Reporting Framework sponsored by HRH, addition, more than 10% of our most highly rewarded people in the the Prince of Wales.
BTs sustainability report UK are from an ethnic minority background.
Our policy is for people www.
com betterworld provides full details of BTs CR progress.
to be paid fairly regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability.
We work with specialist recruitment agencies to attract people Supporting communities with disabilities to work for BT, and in partnership with Remploy, we All our lines of business support our community involvement run a retention service to ensure that talented people can stay with us activities.
even if their capabilities change.
Outside the UK, we are working to ensure that our policies and UK practices are tailored to address legislation country by country, as In 2009, we helped to launch Communicating for Success, a well as respecting cultural differences.
co-funded partnership between BT and the Football Foundation, to tackle digital exclusion and improve communications skills in the UK.
Our UK network We partner with a number of charities, including Childline, We have the most comprehensive xed-line communications network Children in Need and the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC in in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 680 local and 120 trunk 2009, for which BT and BT employees raised over 4m.
BT people processor units, more than 128m kilometres of copper wire and over volunteer to take donations in our call centres as part of major charity 11m kilometres of optical bre, and an extensive IP backbone network.
We also manage the telephone networks and provide the online donation technology.
Our global research and development capability For the past three years, Openreach has supported iCAN, a charity We have created a global research and development R&D capability working for children with speech and language difficulties.
to support BTs drive to meet customers needs around the world.
We have a world-class team of researchers, scientists and developers, Rest of the world including people at Adastral Park near Ipswich England, a research The Inspiring Young Minds programme, our global development team based in Malaysia and a new research centre in China.
We have partnership with UNICEF, which brings IT skills to children, launches in recently established a collaborative research and innovation centre in China in 2010, following Brazil in 2008 and South Africa in 2007.
In the United Arab Emirates with the Emirates Telecommunications India, we support the work of the Katha IT and E-commerce school in Corporation Etisalat and Khalifa University.
We also play a leading one of Delhis poorest areas.
role in the India-UK Advanced Technology Centre, a research We launched our first global disaster relief secondee programme consortium of industry and academic partners from India and the UK.
BT volunteers with critical skills can be deployed We have established two global development centres in the UK into disaster zones alongside the aid charitys own workers.
and India, and are currently establishing three more in Europe, the US and China.
These bring all our global development teams together, Protecting the environment and use online collaboration and videoconferencing systems for We aim to be a leader in the new low carbon economy.
On the one virtual joint working.
hand, we recognise that the IT and communications industries constitute nearly 2% of global carbon emissions, and we are working hard to reduce these.
On the other hand, communications technology reduces the need for people to travel and offers scope for 8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review improved logistics, energy distribution and energy management Conditions applying to all providers which in turn reduces carbon emissions.
Although these general conditions are concerned mainly with We have been rated number one in the telecommunications sector consumer protection, they also include requirements relating to in the Dow Jones Global Sustainability Index for the past eight years.
general access and interconnection, standards, emergency planning, We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise for Sustainable the payment of administrative charges, the provision of information Development and Business in the Communitys Community Mark.
A separate condition regulates the We meet the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers in provision of premium rate services.
reporting on social performance and have also applied the Prince of The Electronic Communications Code applies to all CPs authorised Wales Accounting for Sustainability reporting framework.
to carry out streetworks and similar activities for network provision.
It requires electronic CPs with apparatus on or in the public highway to Corporate responsibility risks make financial provision to cover any damage caused by work they During 2009, we continued to develop our knowledge and carry out, and for the removal of their networks in the event of understanding of our corporate responsibility risks.
This has been provided for the period to Our most significant CR risks continue to be: 31 March 2010. breach of our code of business ethics Conditions applying to BT climate change Universal service obligations USO are dened in an order issued by diversity the Secretary of State.
BT is the designated supplier of universal health and safety service for the UK, excluding the Hull area where Kingston privacy Communications is the designated provider.
Our primary obligation is supply chain working conditions.
to ensure that basic xed-line services are available at an affordable price to all citizens and consumers in the UK.
Other conditions relate Each of these risks has an owner and a mitigation strategy in to payphones and social needs schemes.
These risks are not regarded as material in relation to the group Ofcom is scheduled to conduct a review of the narrowband USO in and consequently are not included in Principal risks and 2009, including whether it is still appropriate for BT to bear the entire uncertainties.
cost of meeting the USO or whether there should be some contribution from the broader industry.
Regulation It should also be noted that in its Digital Britain interim report BT operates in a dynamic and competitive environment both in the January 2009, the UK Government set out its objective to develop UK and around the world.
Innovation is accelerating, driven by plans for commitments around universal service covering broadband customer demand.
Products and services are evolving and services to be effective by 2012.
We are working closely with the UK converging, supported by increasingly sophisticated networks.
Government, Ofcom and the wider communications industry on Service bundles offering xed and mobile telephony, broadband and these plans, which we expect will be published more fully in the television are available from an increasing number of suppliers.
We believe that, in such a climate, regulation must deliver a level playing eld in the UK which allows companies across the significant market power designations fast-moving and converging markets to compete on equal terms, and Ofcom is also required by EU directives to review relevant markets makes sure that new monopolies are not allowed to emerge.
We also regularly and determine whether any CP has SMP in those markets.
need regulation to move at the same speed as the market is evolving Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP, it must impose such that regulation is only applied where necessary.
Otherwise, appropriate remedies, that may include price controls.
At 31 March there is a real risk that innovation and investment could be stied.
2009, as a result of previous market reviews, BT was deemed to have SMP in a number of markets.
Regulation in the UK However, Ofcom is in the process of consulting on SMP Electronic communications regulation in the UK is conducted within a designations in both the retail and wholesale narrowband services framework set out in various European Union EU directives, markets.
Its review of xed narrowband retail services relates in regulations and recommendations.
The framework is currently under particular to the supply of consumer and business telephone lines review and new directives are expected to take effect by 2011. and voice calls.
In the course of this review, Ofcom has proposed that BT no longer has SMP in these markets and that if Ofcom nalises its Ofcom proposals, this would result in BT having greater freedom to package Ofcom the Ofce of Communications was set up under the Ofce of and price those services as we choose.
Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, seamless approach to Ofcom is also currently reviewing wholesale narrowband services regulating the entire communications market.
Its principal duties are markets.
It has proposed that while BT will retain SMP in certain to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications dened markets for example, the provision of wholesale exchange matters and to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, lines, call origination and interconnect links in other markets, such where appropriate by promoting competition.
as local-to-tandem conveyance and single tandem transit, SMP Ofcom regulation takes the form of sets of conditions laid down would be removed and BTs activities deregulated.
under the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act, and Ofcoms consultation on both the retail and wholesale narrowband directions under these conditions.
Some conditions apply to all services market review will close on 28 May 2009 and Ofcom will providers of electronic communications networks and services: others issue a statement later in the year setting out its conclusions.
apply to individual providers, which Ofcom has designated as In May 2008, Ofcom removed BTs SMP designation in relation to universal service providers or having significant market power SMP the provision of wholesale broadband access services in dened in a particular market.
geographic areas of the UK dened as Market 3.
This followed Ofcoms nding that effective competition in the provision of Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 9 broadband in these areas had resulted from cable companies and CPs European Union purchasing unbundled local loops from Openreach.
All previous Communications regulation in each EU country is conducted within regulation of BTs wholesale activities in relation to broadband the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations services in these areas was therefore removed.
The manner and speed with which the existing directives have been implemented vary from country to country.
significant market power charge controls National regulators are working together in the European As a result of SMP designations, the charges we can make for a Regulators Group to introduce greater harmonisation in their number of wholesale services are subject to the following regulatory approach to the assessment of SMP and the imposition of controls: appropriate remedies.
BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, network charge controls NCC on wholesale interconnect services although in certain member states we may be required to contribute we operate under interconnection agreements with most other towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of meeting such CPs.
Our charges for interconnect services are controlled by obligations.
Ofcom, under the NCC regime.
These controls are designed to The European Commission formally investigated the way the UK ensure that our charges are reasonably derived from costs, plus an Government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston appropriate return on capital employed.
Ofcom is currently Communications, and whether or not the UK Government complied reviewing the charge control to take effect for four years from 1 with European Community Treaty rules on state aid.
It concluded that October 2009 and is consulting on a range of options where no state aid had been granted.
The Commissions decision has now charges would be allowed to increase by more than ination been appealed, but we continue to believe that any allegation of partial private circuits PPC charge controls applying to certain state aid is groundless, and that the appeal will not succeed.
wholesale leased lines that BT provides to other network operators.
Ofcom has consulted on proposals for new controls to The rest of the world apply from 1 October 2009 and is expected to issue its final The vast majority of the communications markets in which we decision in the first quarter of the 2010 financial year operate around the world are subject to regulation, and in most of Ofcom is proposing to introduce charge controls on BTs provision these we have to meet certain conditions and have had to obtain of wholesale Ethernet access and backhaul services at bandwidths licences or other authorisations.
The degree to which these markets of 1Gb or below from 1 October 2009.
Again, Ofcoms final are liberalised varies widely, which means that our ability to compete decision on these controls is expected in the first quarter of the fully in some countries is constrained.
We continue to press 2010 financial year incumbent operators and their national regulatory authorities around Ofcom has also been consulting on regulatory controls governing the world including in the EU for cost-related wholesale access to the charges Openreach applies to the provision of local loop their networks where appropriate and for advance notice of any unbundling LLU services and wholesale line rental WLR.
Ofcom changes to their network design or technology which would have an is expected to publish a statement shortly setting out its impact on our ability to serve our customers.
conclusions on LLU charges and issue a further consultation on WLR charges.
Competition UK market trends BTs Undertakings Broadband take up in the UK is slowing as the market matures and In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, reaches high levels of penetration.
However, usage is growing, driven we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings under the for example by the increased popularity of peer-to-peer applications Enterprise Act 2002 Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings, which and of services such as the BBC iPlayer and BT Vision.
Mobile included the creation of Openreach, were accepted by Ofcom and broadband has also been a focus for many of the mobile operators as came into force in September 2005.
The Undertakings are intended the voice and text markets approach saturation.
Broadband providers to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry are now expected to deliver an excellent level of service in addition to about the way BT will provide upstream regulated products to a range of applications and products tailored to the individual needs support effective and fair competition in related downstream of customers.
This, in itself, should lead to a reduction in the need for regulation in those competitive downstream markets over time.
Competition law BT is in discussion with Ofcom and the wider communications In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is industry about the remaining Undertakings in the context of changing subject to the Competition Act 1998 Competition Act in the UK and industry priorities and systems capacity.
Any proposed changes will be to EU competition law.
Where we operate outside the UK, we are also subject to consultation during the 2009 calendar year.
subject to the competition laws in the relevant countries.
In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations that BT Next generation access regulation had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing of consumer In March 2009, following consultation, Ofcom published a policy broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three statements of objection to statement setting out a regulatory framework for next generation which we responded and argued that our pricing does not amount to access NGA.
This gave sufficient regulatory certainty for BT to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom is expected to issue a decision in due proceed with the initial phase of our super-fast broadband roll out course.
and we will continue to work with Ofcom as our plans develop.
Branches outside the UK Regulation outside the UK BT operates branches outside the UK in Europe, the Middle East, BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in which Africa, the Americas and the Asia Pacic region.
we operate and this can have a material impact on our business.
Our relationship with HM Government The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does 10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as In the 2008 Annual Report & Form 20-F, we highlighted described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a Transformation Strategy and Technological Advances as principal supplier and the UK Government as a customer has been on a normal risks.
These are not included for 2009 because the groups customer and supplier basis.
transformation programme was completed during the first half of the We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and year.
In addition, as the new 21CN core network has now been provide certain services for the UK Government.
General conditions completed, any ongoing risks associated with general technological made under the Communications Act require all providers of public advances are managed as part of the groups normal risk telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, management process.
Ongoing risks associated with the general including BT, at the request of and in consultation with the competitive environment are set out below.
authorities, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
The conjunction with the risk management process, the forward-looking Civil Contingencies Act 2004 contains provisions enabling the UK statements in this document and the Cautionary statement Government to impose obligations on providers of public electronic regarding forward-looking statements on page 99. communications networks, including BT, at times of emergency and in connection with civil contingency planning.
In addition, the Competitive activity Secretary of State has statutory powers to require us to take certain We operate in highly competitive markets where customers can actions in the interest of national security and international relations.
switch suppliers based on price and service levels as well as competitor activity.
The profitability of these markets is declining as Legal proceedings the competitive intensity and volatility of these markets increases.
We do not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings that Factors contributing to levels of competitive activity would have a material adverse effect on the financial position or includeresource rich competitors from adjacent markets entering operations of the group.
There have been criminal proceedings in our markets: competitors emerging with radically different costs Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in bases, capabilities, propositions and or business models: the connection with the Italian universal mobile telecommunication emergence of new technologies and products offering increased system UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system auction performance at lower cost: decline in market growth rates and in 2000.
Blu, in which we held a minority interest, participated in that profitability due to the current economic environment: increased auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee was found levels of customer churn and reduced levels of market differentiation.
not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The Public Global economic and credit market conditions Prosecutor has appealed the courts decision.
If the appeal is A general reduction in business activity resulting from the current successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The economic downturn in the global economy could lead to a loss of company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to make a revenue and profits for us.
Our business performance could also be provision in respect of any such claim.
adversely affected by increased exposure to the default of customers and suppliers as economic conditions worsen.
In addition the impact Our property portfolio of the current credit market conditions potentially impacts our ability At 31 March 2009, we occupied approximately 7,000 properties in to access liquidity in the capital markets and increases the risk of a the UK and approximately 400 properties in the rest of the world.
counterparty exposure should any counterparty default on its The majority of the UK properties are owned by and leased from contractual obligations.
Volatility in the currency markets also affects the Telereal Group, which is part of the William Pears Group.
our revenues and costs and while appropriate actions are taken to Approximately 85% of the UK portfolio consists of operational mitigate this risk there remains ongoing exposure to foreign telephone exchanges, which contain exchange equipment and are exchange movements.
needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other general purpose If economic and credit conditions do not improve, we may not be properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
able to generate sufficient cash ow, or access capital markets, to Our Group Property team manages waste and recycling on behalf enable us to service or repay our indebtedness or to fund our other of the rest of the business.
We may be required to renance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, reduce or delay Principal risks and uncertainties capital expenditure or seek additional capital.
Renancing or In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risks additional nancing may not be available on commercially reasonable and uncertainties, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Our inability to generate sufficient cash ow to satisfy Although many of the risks and uncertainties inuencing our our debt service obligations, or to renance debt on commercially performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance reasonable terms, may adversely affect our business, financial of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
condition, results of operations and prospects.
This section highlights some of those particular risks and We expect the current economic conditions to continue for some uncertainties affecting our business but it is not intended to be an time and will seek to mitigate the risks that arise while identifying and extensive analysis of all risk and uncertainty affecting our business.
Some may be unknown to us and others, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
All of them have the Regulatory controls potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity Some of our activities are subject to significant price and other and capital resources adversely.
regulatory controls which may affect our market share, competitive We have a dened enterprise wide risk management process for position and future profitability.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Most of our wholesale xed-network activities in the UK are the group.
The group risk register captures the most significant risks subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, facing the business.
Each risk is assigned a senior management owner among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our responsible for monitoring and evaluating the risk and the mitigation services and the extent to which we have to provide services to other strategies.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 11 CPs.
In recent years, the effect of some of these controls has been to development, transformation and deployment phases.
There can be require us to reduce our prices.
We cannot provide assurance to our delays in these phases and certain milestones may be missed which shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not increase the could adversely impact our profit margins and the recoverability of severity of the price controls, extend the services to which controls any capitalised contract costs.
In some cases, our products and apply including any new services that we may offer in the future, or services incorporate software or system requirements from other extend the services which we have to provide to other CPs.
These suppliers or service providers, and failure to meet these obligations controls may adversely affect our market share and our future may in turn impact our ability to meet our commitments in a timely profitability.
Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, contracts may lead to a reduction in our future revenue, profitability we proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings that were and cash generation.
accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
A We may lose significant customers due to merger or acquisition, number of challenging milestones in the Undertakings also remain to business failure or contract expiry.
Failure to replace the revenue and be delivered.
earnings from lost customers could reduce revenue and profitability.
In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the right to seek an injunction through the courts or issue a direction.
Third Security and resilience parties who suffer losses as a result of a breach may also take action We are critically dependant on the secure operation and resilience of against BT in the courts for damages.
The timescales for achievement our information systems, networks and data.
of a number of the milestones in the Undertakings are very Any significant failure or interruption of data transfer as a result of challenging and we are in consultation with Ofcom and the wider factors outside our control could have a material adverse effect on communications industry about the remaining Undertakings in the the business and our results from operations.
We have a corporate context of changing industry priorities and systems capacity.
resilience strategy and business continuity plans in place, designed to Ofcom is conducting a number of reviews which are expected to deal with such catastrophic events including, for example, major be completed during the 2010 financial year.
These include review of terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer virus attack, the wholesale narrowband market, the Openreach financial hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy may lead to a framework, the wholesale line rental charge control, and the reduction in our profitability and there can be no assurance that wholesale local access market.
Whilst these reviews are, in our view, material adverse events will not occur.
an opportunity to create regulatory stability, there is a risk that they The scale of our business and global nature of our operations may adversely affect our competitive position and future returns on means we are required to manage significant volumes of personal our regulated copper asset base.
We also store and transmit data for our Further details on the regulatory framework in which we operate customers all of which needs to be safeguarded from potential can be found in Regulation on pages 9 to 11. exposure and therefore requires a high level of management and security.
Major contracts Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on major Pensions customer contracts.
We have a significant funding obligation to a dened benefit pension We have entered into a number of complex and high value scheme.
networked IT services contracts with customers, increasingly won in Declining investment returns, longer life expectancy and areas which are competitive.
Our pricing, cost and profitability regulatory changes may result in the cost of funding BTs dened estimates for major contracts generally include anticipated long-term benefit pension scheme BTPS becoming a significant burden on our cost savings that we expect to achieve over the life of the contract.
Whilst the triennial actuarial funding valuation as These estimates are based on our best judgement of the at 31 December 2008 has not yet been completed, as detailed on efficiencies we expect to achieve.
Any increased or unexpected costs, pages 19 and 20.
BT and the Trustee of the BTPS have agreed that failures to achieve the anticipated cost savings, or unanticipated deficit contributions of 525m per annum will be made over the next delays, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could three years.
This agreement has been approved by the Pensions make these contracts less profitable or even loss making, so adversely Regulator.
The degree of risk increases generally in The results of future scheme valuations and associated funding proportion to the scope and life of the contract and is typically higher requirements will be impacted by the future performance of in the early stages.
Some customer contracts require significant investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general trend investment in the early stages which is recoverable over the life of the towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of contract.
which are outside our control.
In 2009, a failure to achieve the anticipated cost savings made a number of our major contracts less profitable or even loss making, adversely impacting our profits.
Contract and financial reviews were undertaken in BT Global Services, and resulted in a more cautious view of the recognition of future cost efficiencies and other changes in underlying assumptions and estimates particularly in light of the current economic outlook, resulting in significant contract and financial review charges being recognised.
In addition, major contracts often involve the implementation of new systems and communications networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development of new technologies.
Substantial performance risk exists in these contracts, and some or all elements of performance depend upon successful completion of the transition, 12 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Report of the Directors Business review
