CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting Policies A joint venture is an entity that is jointly controlled by two or more i Basis of preparation of the financial statements entities.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in over an economic activity, and exists only when the strategic accordance with applicable law and, as required by Article 4 of the financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require IAS Regulation, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The financial statements have been An associate is an entity over which another entity has significant prepared under the historical cost convention, modied for the influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint revaluation of certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
significant influence is the power to participate in the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS financial and operating policy decisions of an entity but is not requires the use of accounting estimates.
It also requires control or joint control over those policies.
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to bring the accounting below in Critical accounting estimates and key judgements.
policies used in line with those used by the group.
All intra-group The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on identify trading results before significant one-off or unusual items consolidation.
termed specic items, a non GAAP measure.
This is consistent with Investments in associates and joint ventures are initially recognised the way that financial performance is measured by management and at cost.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying value of the groups assists in providing a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the investment in associates and joint ventures includes the groups share group.
The directors believe that the presentation of the groups of post acquisition reserves, less any impairment in the value of results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the groups individual assets.
The income statement reects the groups share of financial performance as specic items are significant one-off or the results of operations after tax of the associate or joint venture.
unusual in nature and have little predictive value.
Furthermore, the The groups principal operating subsidiaries and associate are group considers a columnar presentation to be appropriate, as it detailed on page 98. improves the clarity of the presentation and is consistent with the way that financial performance is measured and reported to the Board of iii Revenue directors.
Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or measures used by other companies.
Items which have been considered receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of to be significant one-off or unusual in nature include disposals of discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue from the rendering of services and businesses and investments, business restructuring, asset impairment the sale of equipment is recognised when it is probable that the charges and property rationalisation programmes.
The directors intend economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to the group to follow such a presentation on a consistent basis in the future.
and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be measured Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in note 4. reliably.
Where the group acts as agent in a transaction, it recognises In the 2009 financial year, amounts due from the ultimate parent revenue net of directly attributable costs.
company, BT Group plc and the parent company, BT Group Revenue arising from separable installation and connection Investments Limited, have been reclassied from current asset trade services is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue and other receivables to non current asset investments which is from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is considered to be the more appropriate classication since they are recognised evenly over the period to which the charges relate.
not expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the date.
In addition, short term balances receivable from the ultimate groups network.
parent company, BT Group plc and the parent company, BT Group Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for Investments Limited, have been reclassied from current asset trade access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are and other receivables to current asset investments which is also recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue arising considered a more appropriate classication.
Balance sheet from the interconnection of voice and data trafc between other comparative amounts at 31 March 2008 have been reclassied to telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit reduce current trade and other receivables by 18,604m and to across the groups network.
increase non current investments by 17,958m and current asset Revenue from the sale of peripheral and other equipment is investments by 646m to provide a consistent presentation.
The recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are impact in the cash ow statement for the year ended 31 March 2008 transferred to the buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is has been to decrease net cash inow from operating activities and delivered and accepted by the customer.
net cash outow from investing activities by 392m.
Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements is recognised Accounting policies in respect of the parent company British based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of Telecommunications plc, are set out on pages 83 to 86.
These are in completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to accordance with UK GAAP.
the nature of the contract.
For long-term services contracts, revenue is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the contract.
ii Basis of consolidation However, if the performance pattern is other than straight line, The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements revenue is recognised as services are provided, usually on an output of British Telecommunications plc the company and its or consumption basis.
For xed price contracts, including contracts to subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of joint design and build software solutions, revenue is recognised by ventures and associates using the equity method of accounting.
reference to the stage of completion, as determined by the A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and costs, or other measures of completion such as contract milestone operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, activities.
revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
30 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Accounting policies Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual statement immediately, except where a proportion of the profit or arrangements are expensed as incurred.
An element of costs incurred loss is deferred or amortised because the sale price was not equal to in the initial set up, transition or transformation phase of the contract fair value.
are deferred and recorded within non current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over vi Foreign currencies the remaining contractual term, unless the pattern of service delivery Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups indicates a different prole is appropriate.
These costs are directly subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic attributable to specic contracts, relate to future activity, will environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
generate future economic benets and are assessed for recoverability The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, the on a regular basis.
presentation currency of the group.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the exchange rates are recognised in the income statement in the line extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable.
Recognised which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or revenue and profits are subject to revisions during the contract if the transaction.
Where monetary items form part of the net investment assumptions regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
in a foreign operation and are designated as hedges of a net The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the investment or as cash ow hedges, such exchange differences are period in which such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are estimated revenue for a contract, the full contract life loss is translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of recognised immediately.
foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative iv Other operating income translation difference associated with the undertaking in the Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on from activities outside of the provision of communication services and disposal.
Items reported as other operating income include income from repayment works and scrap and cable recovery, income vii Business combinations generated by our fleet operations, profits and losses on the disposal of The purchase method of accounting is used for the acquisition of business operations and property, plant and equipment, and income subsidiaries, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
On generated from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
transition to IFRS, the group elected not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to acquisitions that occurred before 1 April 2004. v Leases Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is therefore treated The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease as follows: is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an Goodwill which arose after 1 April 2004: included in the balance assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is sheet at original cost, less any provisions for impairment.
This dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the goodwill is not amortised.
arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Goodwill which arose between 1 January 1998 and 1 April 2004: Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds included in the balance sheet at original cost, less accumulated substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as amortisation to the date of transition to IFRS and less any finance leases.
This goodwill is not amortised after the Finance lease assets are capitalised at the commencement of the date of transition to IFRS.
lease term at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease Goodwill which arose before 1 January 1998: written off directly payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The obligations to retained earnings.
relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future On acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are attributed to the periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently identiable net assets acquired.
The excess of the cost of the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
If a acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identiable sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any excess of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the sale proceeds over the carrying amount is deferred and recognised in acquisition is less than the fair value of the groups share of the the income statement over the lease term.
identiable net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the gain or loss held by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are on disposal includes the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the subsidiary sold.
Goodwill previously written off to retained earnings is period of the lease.
If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an not recycled to the income statement on disposal of the related operating lease, any profit or loss is recognised in the income subsidiary.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 31 viii Intangible assets On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to disposal is recorded in the income statement.
the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill and Cost indefinite lived assets, are amortised over their useful economic life.
Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment The method of amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are direct labour, contractors charges, materials and directly are expected to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined attributable overheads.
reliably, the straight line method is used.
Depreciation Goodwill Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, so as to fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into intangible assets of the acquired subsidiary.
Goodwill is tested account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not subject to annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: Telecommunication licences Land and buildings Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunication Freehold buildings 40 years activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to lease or 40 years, the end of the licence period.
whichever is the shorter Network infrastructure and equipment Brands, customer lists and customer relationships Transmission equipment: Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are Duct 40 years recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used Cable 3 to 25 years in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include Radio and repeater equipment 2 to 25 years managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years the acquired businesses.
Payphones, other network equipment 2 to 20 years Other Computer software Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Computer software comprises computer software purchased from Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of Computer software purchased from third parties is initially recorded the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and at cost.
useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised prospectively.
Subscriber acquisition costs Subscriber acquisition costs are expensed as incurred, unless they meet xi Borrowing Costs the criteria for capitalisation, in which case they are capitalised and All borrowing costs are expensed in the income statement in the amortised over the shorter of the customer life or contractual period.
period in which they are incurred.
Estimated useful economic lives xii Asset impairment non-financial assets The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and categories of intangible assets are as follows: equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the Telecommunication licences 1 to 5 years carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is Brands, customer lists and customer relationships 3 to 15 years performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the Computer software 2 to 5 years higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value ix Research and development less cost to sell.
Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are period in which it is incurred.
tested for impairment at least annually.
Development expenditure, including the cost of internally developed Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
software, is recognised in the income statement in the period in which it If a cash generating unit is impaired, provision is made to reduce is incurred unless it is probable that economic benets will ow to the the carrying amount of the related assets to their estimated group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be recoverable amount, normally as a specic item.
Impairment losses reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated.
are allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
against intangible and other assets.
Research and development costs include direct labour, Where an impairment loss has been recognised against an asset, it contractors charges, materials and directly attributable overheads.
may be reversed in future periods where there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the x Property, plant and equipment last impairment loss was recognised, but only to the extent that the Property, plant and equipment is included in the balance sheet at assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that historical cost, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if losses.
no impairment loss had been recognised.
This does not apply for 32 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Accounting policies goodwill, for which an impairment loss may not be reversed in any xvii Taxation circumstances.
Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries xiii Inventory where the companys subsidiaries and associates operate and Inventory mainly comprises items of equipment held for sale or rental generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates positions and consumable items.
taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax Equipment held and consumable items are stated at the lower of regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group establishes cost and estimated net realisable value, after provisions for provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts expected to obsolescence.
Cost is calculated on a first-in-first-out basis.
be paid to tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of xiv Termination benets temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is assets and liabilities and their tax base, except to the extent that the terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial recognition of accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
accounting profit nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are, where permitted under IAS12 Income xv Post retirement benets Taxes, offset against deferred tax assets within the same taxable The group operates a funded dened benefit pension plan, which is entity or qualifying local tax group.
Any remaining deferred tax asset administered by an independent Trustee, for the majority of its is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can employees.
be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, The groups obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating the amount of the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to to date.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, the fair value of any plan assets is deducted to arrive at the net based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively pension obligation or asset.
The discount rate used is the yield at the enacted by the balance sheet date.
balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on approximating the terms of the groups obligations.
The calculation is investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be method.
The net obligation or asset recognised in the balance sheet is controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair value reverse in the foreseeable future.
Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, The income statement charge is allocated between an operating except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly in charge and a net finance charge.
The operating charge reects the equity, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity.
service cost which is spread systematically over the working lives of the employees.
The net finance charge reects the unwinding of the xviii Advertising and marketing discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, offset by the expected The costs associated with the groups advertising and marketing return on the assets of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the activities are expensed within other operating costs as incurred.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in xix Dividends which they occur and are presented in the statement of recognised Final dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they income and expense.
are declared and approved by the companys shareholders in general Actuarial valuations of the main dened benefit plan are carried meeting.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid.
out by an independent actuary as determined by the Trustee at intervals of not more than three years, to determine the rates of xx Provisions contribution payable.
The pension cost is determined on the advice of Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or the groups actuary, having regard to the results of these trustee constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that valuations.
In any intervening years, the actuaries review the an outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and continuing appropriateness of the contribution rates.
the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by The group also operates dened contribution pension schemes discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that and the income statement is charged with the contributions payable.
reects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions xvi Share based payments are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at The ultimate parent, BT Group plc, has a number of employee share amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Onerous schemes, share option and award plans under which it makes equity lease provisions have been measured at the lower of the cost to full settled share based payments to employees of the group.
The fair the contract or the cost of exit.
value of options and awards granted is recognised as an expense after taking into account the groups best estimate of the number of xxi Financial Instruments options and awards expected to vest allowing for non market and Recognition and derecognition of financial assets and financial service conditions.
Fair value is measured at the date of grant and is liabilities spread over the vesting period of the award.
The fair value of options Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the and awards granted is measured using either the Binomial or Monte group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Carlo model, whichever is most appropriate to the award.
Financial assets are derecognised when the group no longer has Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 33 rights to cash ows, the risks and rewards of ownership or control of Impairment of financial assets the asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
In particular, for asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
all regular way purchases and sales of financial assets, the group Where there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has recognises the financial assets on the settlement date, which is the arisen on assets carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is date on which the asset is delivered to or by the group.
reduced with the loss being recognised in the income statement.
The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets Financial assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows Financial assets at fair value through income statement discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The A financial asset is classied in this category if acquired principally for impairment loss is only reversed if it can be related objectively to an the purpose of selling in the short-term held for trading or if so event after the impairment was recognised and is reversed to the designated by management.
Financial assets held in this category are extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value, with amortised cost at the date of reversal.
changes in value recognised in the income statement in the line which If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
The the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and direct transaction costs are recognised immediately in the income amortisation and its fair value is transferred from equity to the statement.
Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the income statement if the increase Loans and receivables in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the income determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other statement.
Reversals in respect of equity instruments classied as than: available-for-sale are recognised directly in equity.
those that the group intends to sell immediately or in the short If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been term, which are classied as held for trading: incurred on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its value because its fair value cannot be objectively measured, or on a initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, derivative asset that is linked to and must be settled by delivery of which are classied as available-for-sale.
such an unquoted equity instrument, the amount of loss is measured Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value plus as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the transaction costs and subsequently carried at amortised cost using present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the the effective interest method, with changes in carrying value current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
recognised in the income statement, in the line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Financial liabilities Trade and other payables Available-for-sale financial assets Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced either specifically designated in this category or not classied in any amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially effective interest method.
recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with Loans and other borrowings unrealised gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value plus monetary items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are directly attributable transaction costs.
Where loans and other recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the borrowings contain a separable embedded derivative, the fair value financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or of the embedded derivative is the difference between the fair value loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, of the hybrid instrument and the fair value of the loan or borrowing.
in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or The fair value of the embedded derivative and the loan or borrowing transaction.
is recorded separately on initial recognition.
Loans and other borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the Trade and other receivables effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially relationship, are revalued to reect the fair value movements on the recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective resultant amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of interest method less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions are made specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses Financial guarantees experienced and general economic conditions.
Financial guarantees are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at the higher of the Cash and cash equivalents amount determined in accordance with the accounting policy relating Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current balances to provisions and the amount initially determined less, when with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to appropriate, cumulative amortisation.
cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
Derivative financial instruments For the purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce cash equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank exposure to foreign exchange risks and interest rate movements.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for borrowings, in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Accounting policies Derivative financial instruments are classied as held for trading and are extent that the hedges are deemed effective.
Any ineffectiveness initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or arising on a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation is loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the recognised in net finance income.
income statement in net finance income.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss Discontinuance of hedge accounting depends on the nature of the hedge.
Derivative financial instruments Discontinuance of hedge accounting may occur when a hedging are classied as current assets or current liabilities where they are not instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the designated in a hedging relationship or have a maturity period within hedge no longer qualies for hedge accounting or the group revokes 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a maturity designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged financial asset period greater than 12 months and are designated in a hedge or liability remains or a highly probable transaction is still expected to relationship, they are classied within either non current assets or non occur.
Under a cash ow hedge, the cumulative gain or loss at that current liabilities.
point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risk and is no longer expected to take place or the underlying hedged financial characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract and asset or liability no longer exists, the cumulative unrealised gain or the host contract is not carried at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of loss recognised in equity is recognised immediately in the income embedded derivatives are recognised in the income statement in the line statement.
Under a hedge of a net investment, the cumulative gain which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
or loss remains in equity when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or when the hedge no longer qualies Hedge accounting for hedge accounting or the group revokes designation of the hedge To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be relationship.
The cumulative gain or loss is recognised in the income prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly statement as part of the profit on disposal when the net investment effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested in the foreign operation is disposed.
Under a fair value hedge, the for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the cumulative gain or loss adjustment associated with the hedged risk is hedge remains in operation.
amortised to the income statement using the effective interest method over the remaining term of the hedged item.
Cash ow hedge When a financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the Share capital variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly Ordinary shares are classied as equity.
Incremental costs directly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity.
deduction from the proceeds received.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and Critical accounting estimates and key judgements recognised in the same line in the income statement in the same The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRSs period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects the requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of For highly probable transactions, when the transaction applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our subsequently results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available non-financial liability the associated cumulative gain or loss is information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in removed from equity and included in the initial cost or carrying financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are If a hedge of a highly probable transaction subsequently results in the described below.
recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, then the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassied Long-term customer contracts into the income statement in the same period or periods during which Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial the asset acquired or liability assumed affects the income statement.
During the contractual period, revenue, costs and profits may Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge of a recognised asset be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each or liability is recognised immediately in the same income statement contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate the contract will be line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is recognised probable transactions, it is recognised in the line which most immediately.
The group performs ongoing profitability reviews of its appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include transaction volumes, or Fair value hedge other inputs for which we get paid, future staff and third party costs When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of and anticipated cost productivity, savings and efficiencies.
the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the Interconnect income and payments to other telecommunications derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges are recorded in operators the same line in the income statement, together with any changes in In certain instances, BT relies on other operators to measure the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the trafc ows interconnecting with our networks.
Estimates are used in hedged risk.
these cases to determine the amount of income receivable from, or payments we need to make to, these other operators.
The prices at Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation which these services are charged are often regulated and are subject Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of currency to retrospective adjustment, and estimates are used in assessing the instruments designated as hedges of net investments in a foreign likely effect of these adjustments.
operation are taken to shareholders equity on consolidation to the Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 35 Pension obligations These estimates include such factors as the current state of the BT has a commitment, mainly through the BT Pension Scheme, to economy and particular industry issues.
pay pension benets to approximately 350,000 people over approximately 60 years.
The cost of these benets and the present Property arrangements value of our pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life As part of a property rationalisation programme, we have identied a expectancy of the members, the salary progression of our current number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to employees, the return that the pension fund assets will generate in sub-let this space, it is recognised that this may not be possible the time before they are used to fund the pension payments and the immediately in the current economic environment.
Estimates have rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
We use been made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall estimates for all of these factors in determining the pension costs and arising from the sub lease rental income being lower than the lease liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
The assumptions costs being borne by BT.
Any such cost or shortfall has been reect historical experience and our judgement regarding future recognised as a provision.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to Useful lives for property, plant and equipment published standards adopted in the year ended 31 March 2009 The plant and equipment in BTs networks is long lived with cables and IFRIC 14, Dened benefit assets and minimum funding switching equipment operating for over ten years and underground requirements, became effective and was adopted during the year.
ducts being used for decades.
The annual depreciation charge is The adoption of this standard has had no impact on the groups sensitive to the estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
financial position or results of operations.
Asset lives are assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining lives in light of Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments to technological change, network investment plans including the published standards not yet effective groups 21CN programme, prospective economic utilisation and Certain new standards, interpretations and amendments to existing physical condition of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service standards have been published that are mandatory for the groups lives of assets implemented from 1 April 2008 had no significant accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2009 or later impact in aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2009. periods, but which the group has not adopted early.
Those which are relevant to the groups operations are as follows: Income tax The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to IFRS 2, Share Based Payments vesting conditions and complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and cancellations, effective from 1 April 2009 regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for The amendment to IFRS 2 claries that only service and performance the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our conditions are vesting conditions.
Any other conditions are nonfinancial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and vesting conditions, which have to be taken into account to determine judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
In the case that the may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of award does not vest as the result of a failure to meet a non-vesting prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates condition that is within the control of either the group or the reected in the financial statements.
counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Cancellations must be treated as accelerated vestings and all remaining future Deferred tax charges are immediately recognised in the income statement.
IFRS 2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement in requires retrospective adoption, therefore prior periods will be determining the amounts to be recognised.
The group expects adoption of this standard to increase the is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should share based payment charge for 2009 by approximately 110m be recognised with consideration given to the timing and level of 2008: nil.
The group is currently assessing the impact of this future taxable income.
standard on the share based payment charge for the year 31 March 2010.
Goodwill The recoverable amount of cash generating units has been IFRS 3 Revised, Business Combinations effective from 1 April determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations 2010 require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of IFRS 3 Revised amends certain aspects of accounting for business future revenue growth, operating costs and profit margins for each combinations set out in IFRS 3.
Amendments include the requirement cash generating unit.
to expense all transaction costs as incurred and the requirement for all payments to acquire a business to be recorded at fair value at the Determination of fair values acquisition date, with some contingent payments subsequently Certain financial instruments such as investments, derivative financial re-measured at fair value through the income statement.
IFRS 3 instruments and certain elements of loans and borrowings, are Revised is applicable prospectively to business combinations carried on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in fair value effected on or after the effective date.
Adoption of this standard will reected in the income statement.
Fair values are estimated by impact how the group accounts for business combinations entered reference in part to published price quotations and in part by using into on or after 1 April 2010. valuation techniques.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments effective from 1 April 2009 Providing for doubtful debts IFRS 8 requires the identication of operating segments based on BT provides services to around 15m individuals and businesses, internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker and extends mainly on credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not the scope and disclosure requirements of IAS 14, Segmental be paid through the default of a small number of our customers.
The group does not expect the adoption of IFRS 8 to Estimates, based on our historical experience, are used in signicantly impact its segmental analysis disclosure.
determining the level of debts that we believe will not be collected.
36 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 Accounting policies IAS 1 Revised, Presentation of Financial Statements effective IFRIC 16, Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation from 1 April 2009 effective 1 April 2009 IAS 1 Revised prescribes the basis for presentation of financial IFRIC 16 provides guidance on accounting for the hedge of a net statements to ensure comparability both with the entitys financial investment in a foreign operation in an entitys consolidated financial statements of previous periods and with the financial statements of statements.
The standard provides guidance on which risks are other entities.
IAS 1 Revised introduces a number of changes to the eligible for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS, as follows: requirements for the presentation of financial statements, which 1 presentational currency does not create an exposure to which the include the following: the separate presentation of owner and nonentity may apply hedge accounting, 2 the hedging instruments may owner changes in equity: requirement for entities making be held by an entity or entities within the group, and 3 while IAS 39, restatements or reclassications of comparative information to Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, must be present a balance sheet as at the beginning of the comparative applied to determine the amount that needs to be reclassied to period: and optional name changes for certain primary statements.
profit or loss from the foreign currency translation reserve in respect Adoption of this revision will result in minor presentational changes of the hedging instrument, IAS 21, The Effects of Changes in Foreign to the groups financial statements from 1 April 2009.
Exchange Rates, must be applied in respect of the hedged item.
The group does not expect adoption of this guidance to have a significant Amendment to IAS 23, Borrowing Costs effective from 1 April impact on the groups financial statements.
2009 The amendment to IAS 23 eliminates the option to expense IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners effective borrowing costs attributable to the acquisition, construction or 1 April 2010 production of a qualifying asset as incurred.
As a result, the group will IFRIC 17 provides guidance on how an entity should measure be required to capitalise such borrowing costs as part of the cost of distributions other than cash when it pays dividends to its owners.
The group has assessed the impact of this amendment and The standard requires the dividend payable to be measured at the fair does not expect it to have a significant impact on the groups value of the assets to be distributed, and any difference between the financial statements.
fair value and the book value of the assets is recorded in the income statement.
The group does not expect adoption of this guidance to IAS 27 Revised, Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
effective from 1 April 2010 IAS 27 Revised requires the effects of all transactions with non IFRIC 18, Transfers of Assets from Customers effective controlling interests to be recorded in equity if there is no change in 1 July 2009 control.
Such transactions will no longer result in goodwill or gains or IFRIC 18 applies to all agreements in which an entity receives from a losses being recorded.
IAS 27 Revised also species that when control customer an item of property, plant and equipment that the entity is lost, any remaining interest should be re-measured to fair value and a must use either to connect the customer to a network or provide the gain or loss recorded through the income statement.
The group has customer with ongoing access to a supply of goods or services.
assessed the impact of this interpretation and concluded that it is not IFRIC 18 requires the entity receiving the item of property, plant and likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
equipment to recognise it in its financial statements if it meets the denition of an asset.
The recognition of the transfer of the asset is IFRIC 12, Service Concession Arrangements effective from 1 April accounted for in accordance with IAS 16, Property, Plant and 2009: effective under full IFRS from 1 April 2008, but not adopted Equipment, and, because an exchange of dissimilar goods or services by the EU until 25 March 2009 has occurred, IAS 18, Revenue.
The group is currently assessing the IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting by operators of public-private impact of the amendment upon the groups financial statements.
The group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it does not have significant impact on the groups financial statements.
IFRIC 13, Customer loyalty programmes effective from 1 April 2009 IFRIC 13 claries that where goods and services are sold together with a customer loyalty incentive, the arrangement is a multiple element arrangement and the consideration receivable from the customer should be allocated between the components of the arrangement in proportion to their fair values.
The group has assessed the impact of this interpretation and has concluded it is not likely to have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures effective 1 April 2009 The amendments to IFRS 7 introduce a three level hierarchy for fair value measurement disclosures and require entities to provide additional disclosures about the relative reliability of fair value measurements.
In addition, the amendments clarify the existing requirements for the disclosure of liquidity risk.
The group will be required to make additional disclosures to comply with these amendments.
Accounting policies British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2009 37
