6 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped from 30.06.08 to 30.06.09 Investment background rebased to 100 The year under review was dominated by the crisis in global banking and its effect on markets and the economy.
105 100 In September 2008, short term liquidity in the wholesale 95 money markets became extremely scarce causing Lehman 90 Brothers to file for bankruptcy and a number of other large 85 financial institutions to be bailed out by government actions 80 including AIG, Washington Mutual, Fortis, HBOS and 75 Bradford & Bingley.
In October 2008, the US government 70 had to rescue Citigroup and the UK government announced 65 a substantial capital injection into Royal Bank of Scotland 60 and the soon to be merged LloydsTSB HBOS.
In January, the J J A S O N D J F M A M J Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Price Index UK government had to provide a second package of support for RBS and Lloyds HBOS which included government guarantees on asset backed securities and London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index from partial indemnities against further losses.
30.06.08 to 30.06.09 Given the troubles in the credit markets, companies found 160 it increasingly difficult to obtain debt funding.
Banks were 140 unwilling to lend, even at much higher margins than in 120 recent years.
As a result, in the first half of 2009, there 100 were a large number of raisings of new equity from 80 companies including the two biggest ever on the London Stock Exchange from HSBC 12 billion and Rio Tinto 60 9 billion.
In addition, there were many dividend cuts and 40 omissions from indebted companies.
20 0 The failings of the banks had a serious effect on economic J J A S O N D J F M A M J Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL activity and there was a significant policy response from Price Index the authorities.
In addition to supporting various banks and other financial institutions, interest rates were cut to Base Rates, 10 Year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index unprecedentedly low levels.
In the UK, base rates, which 4% Capped Yields from 30.06.08 to 30.06.09 were 5% in July 2008, were cut all the way down to 0.5% 7 by March 2009.
To counter the negative effect of a falling money supply, the Bank of England embarked on a 6 programme of quantitative easing whereby it bought UK 5 government bonds and some corporate bonds.
The UK 4 government allowed its budget deficit to rise dramatically so that public spending could offset the sharp decline in 3 private sector demand.
2 The cuts in interest rates, quantitative easing and increased 1 government spending took place against an improved 0 J J A S O N D J F M A M J trend in inflation.
The oil price fell from $140 a barrel in UK Clearing Banks Base Rate Middle Rate July 2008 to a low of below $40 a barrel at the end of UK Government Bond Series 10 Year Red.
Yield 2008 before climbing back to about $70 a barrel by FTSE All Share Capped 4% Dividend Yield 30 June 2009.
Similar moves were seen in other key Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 7 Portfolio Managers Report continued commodities.
Despite the sharp fall in sterling against the The two sectors with the most negative contributions were Euro and the US dollar, inflation trended downwards in the below average market exposure to Pharmaceuticals and UK economy given weak domestic demand, rising above average exposure to Real Estate.
unemployment and subdued pay settlements.
Portfolio review Gearing at the start of the financial year was 10.1% and was In the Banks sector, the largest holding throughout the maintained in a fairly tight range of between 9.0% and year was HSBC.
Although HSBC suffered significant losses 12.4% to end the period at 10.1%.
Overall, gearing had a from its US operations, it continued to benefit from its very negative impact of 2.65% on performance over the year.
strong deposit base and its Far Eastern and Emerging Gearing can enhance returns in rising markets and was markets operations around half of the Banks total maintained over the year because of our view of the longer business held up relatively well.
term attractions of the stocks in the portfolio which were not recognised through share price gains in this reporting period.
The holdings in Royal Bank of Scotland and HBOS were both sold when the scale of their losses emerged and they Performance of higher yielding shares compared with became dependent on UK government support with little lower yielding shares prospect of paying a dividend.
Although it was very The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 regrettable to have held any shares in either RBS or HBOS, Higher Yield Index the higher dividend yielding half of the our holdings were significantly below the market average largest 350 shares of the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower and were sold well above the prices to which both banks Yield Index the lower dividend yielding half of the largest subsequently fell.
We were very disappointed by Lloyds acquisition of HBOS and voted against it and subsequently sold our holding.
Return on FTSE 350 Higher Yield and Lower Yield Indices Lloyds had been relatively conservatively managed in recent from 30.06.08 to 30.06.09 rebased to 100 years and had no exposure to US sub-prime debt.
The board 110 of Lloyds underestimated the problems at HBOS having not 100 had enough time to conduct the necessary amount of due diligence.
90 A large holding was maintained in Barclays by switching 80 out of the ordinary shares on favourable terms into a 70 9.75% convertible into ordinary shares in June 2009 that the bank issued in its October 2008 fund raising.
The bank 60 also raised new equity from sovereign wealth fund investors 50 rather than the UK government.
Although it had been a J J A S O N D J F M A M J FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield bumpy ride, the 9.75% Barclays convertible was showing a Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream large profit by June 2009 with Barclays Capital, the investment bank, trading very well in the first half of 2009.
As can be seen, lower yielding shares underperformed in the first half of the period under review before recovering A new holding was purchased in Standard Chartered, to end the year only slightly behind higher yielding shares.
which is domiciled in the UK but operates in Asia Pacific, The principal cause of this swing in performance was the the Middle East and Africa.
The holding was purchased low yielding Mining sector.
Overall, City of Londons after Standard Chartereds equity rights issue to strengthen stock selection was positive when compared with the its balance sheet when the shares were undervalued benchmark the FTSE 4% Capped Index.
The two sectors relative to its growth prospects.
producing the most positive contribution for relative return compared with the FTSE 4% Capped Index were due to The reduced availability of mortgages had a marked effect below average market exposure in Banks and Mining.
on the UK Housebuilding sector.
With house prices falling 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Portfolio Managers Report continued and the volume of transactions sharply down, the outlook affected by price cuts.
Unfortunately, BT proved to be a for homebuilders seemed bleak and the holdings in Bovis major disappointment with a profit warning from its global and Persimmon were sold.
The commercial property market information technology services division.
In addition, its faced the steepest falling values on record.
As a result, the pension fund deficit concerned investors.
Given the leading real estate investment trusts had to raise new substantial cut in BTs dividend, the holding was sold and equity.
The rights were taken up in Land Securities London replaced with France Telecom and Swisscom, which have offices and retail property, and Segro industrial property, less competitive domestic fixed line markets, and, unlike BT, financed by selling Hammerson and Liberty International.
Given the banks reduced willingness or inability to lend, a In the Media sector, a new holding was purchased in number of companies with a level of debt that in previous Thomson-Reuters.
Over half of its sales are in the relatively years would have seemed supportable, faced problems non cyclical areas of law, tax, accountancy, science and with refinancing their debt.
As a result, such companies healthcare.
Sales in the financial division are under often needed to raise new equity and cut dividends.
pressure but weaker profits in this area are being offset by Throughout the year, the portfolios exposure to such cost cutting.
The company is listed in the UK and Canada companies was reduced through sales that led to a and the holding was bought in London on a discount of reduction in the number of holdings from 103 to 89. over 20% to the Canadian line.
Favoured areas for new investment were those few sectors The Mining sector is particularly sensitive to global with resilient demand for their products and services.
economic activity with commodity prices moving sharply in Demand for healthcare products and services is relatively either direction.
A significantly below average position steady in a recession although there are pressures from state relative to the benchmark was maintained in this volatile or private insurance funding.
Exposure to the Pharmaceutical sector.
This contributed positively to performance over the sector was increased from 5.3% to 8.1% of the portfolio, year with the sector collapsing in the first half and then partly through significant additions to the holding in recovering some of its losses in the second half.
Anglo AstraZeneca, which was bought on an undemanding rating American passed its dividend due to high indebtedness given its profitability and cash flow.
Profits were taken in lowand a downturn in profitability, so the stock was sold.
The underweight position in the The portfolios overweight position in the Oil & Gas sector Pharmaceutical sector during the first part of the year was had a negative capital effect with the oil price falling costly in terms of performance relative to the index but by sharply from its all time high in July 2008.
On the other the end of the period we had moved to a position in line hand, the oil stocks held in the portfolio all produced high with the benchmark index.
dividend yields with dividends enhanced by the rise in the Demand for utility services remains relatively constant US dollar.
through the economic cycle although companies profitability can be affected by regulatory settlements.
Finally, strong performance was achieved by some of the consumer goods companies.
British American Tobacco rose Exposure to the Gas, Water & Multiutilities sector was increased through the purchase of Centrica, owner of the from second largest to become the largest holding in the portfolio without any new investment.
Diageo and Britvic, British Gas energy supply business, whose competitiveness was improved by the lower UK gas price.
A new holding in the Beverages sector, were also notable outperformers.
was also purchased in Rotork, world leader in the manufacture of actuators, devices which can reliably Outlook switch valves on and off.
Its key customers are in the oil By the end of June 2010, the UK will have had a general and gas, power generation and water industries where election.
Whoever forms the next government will have the capital expenditure is likely to grow on long term unpleasant task of raising taxes and cutting public spending investment programmes.
because the current budget deficit is unsustainably high.
Demand for telecommunication services has historically held The outlook for domestic demand appears to be poor in up in downturns although profitability can be adversely the UK with unemployment likely to rise further.
The USA The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued and various European countries face similar problems to the the medium term when it starts to receive dividends from its UK.
The best prospect for economic growth probably lies in valuable 45% stake in Verizon Wireless in the USA.
Utilities China and various emerging markets.
Scottish & Southern Energy and National Grid have predominantly regulated revenues and both have objectives The largest seven holdings in the portfolio are all of dividend growth in real terms.
We would expect HSBCs multinationals which are not dependent on the UK or any dividend to be secure from its reduced level and Tesco other single country.
Overall, the portfolio retains a should continue to grow its dividend with substantial scope strongly defensive bias.
Companies with relatively high to grow in services in the UK and food retailing overseas.
visibility of profits and dividends are favoured.
BP and Royal Dutch Shell are the second and third largest holdings In contrast to the healthy outlook for profits and dividends in the portfolio.
They should continue to benefit from the from our largest holdings, many companies in growing demand for oil and gasoline from China and economically sensitive industries have cut or omitted their other emerging markets and the positive effect of this dividends.
While investors are prone to get excited about demand on the oil price.
Both companies seem committed the long term recovery potential in cyclical stocks, the to at least maintaining their dividends.
outlook is still very unclear in many industries.
We will continue to monitor the cyclical sectors closely for tangible The outlook for dividends from the other largest holdings in evidence of recovery in revenues and profits.
For the time the portfolio is as follows.
Consumer goods companies being, the portfolio is strongly biased towards defensive British American Tobacco and Diageo are likely to continue stocks where we can be confident that profits will be growing their dividends based on resilient demand for their made and dividends paid.
Strong and reliable cashflow underpins the dividends at GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca.
Vodafones dividend has scope to improve in Job Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis at 30 June 2009 for the year to 30 June 2009 total returns relative to the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Large companies constituents of the FTSE 100 Index 2009 2008 Medium-sized companies Overseas listed companies Stock Selection 1.89% -2.14% Gearing -2.65% -2.07% Expenses -0.36% -0.37% 6.9% Share Buy Backs Issues 0.01% 0.04% VAT reclaim 0.28% 0.25% 15.4% Total -0.83% -4.29% Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 77.7%
