The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 13 Directors Simon fide Zoete Chairman David Brief is currently Anita Frew is Chairman Richard Hextall Sir Keith Stuart is an was Deputy Chairman of Credit Chief Investment Officer of Victrex Plc and a nonis the Group Finance adviser to The Gas & Suisse First Boston Europe of BAE Systems Pension executive Director of Director of Amlin plc and Electricity Markets Limited until June 2001.
He is Funds Investment Aberdeen Asset a director of the Lloyds Authority, having been a an adviser to BAE Systems 2000 Management Limited.
Management plc, IMI Market Association Member of the Authority Pension Plan.
He is an He is also a nonplc, Securities Trust of Board.
He investment banker specialising executive director of Scotland plc and Amlin, he was employed was Chairman of in the equity market and was Henderson TR Pacific Northumbrian Water Ltd. by Deloitte & Touche.
He Associated British Ports Vice Chairman of Barclays fide Investment Trust plc.
Prior to this, she was an joined the Board in Holdings plc from 1983 Zoete Wedd prior to its sale to He joined the Board executive Director of 2007. to 2002 and he has also Credit Suisse First Boston in on 1 January 2009.
Abbott Mead Vickers, served as non-executive 1998.
He joined the Board in Director of Corporate Chairman of SEEBOARD 2000.
Development at WPP plc and as a nonGroup plc and Head of executive Director of UK Equities at Scottish BAA plc and RMC Group Provident.
He joined the Board Board in October 2006. in 1999.
All directors are independent of the Investment Manager although Mr Brief is a director of Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, which is also managed by Henderson Global Investors.
All directors are members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Richard Hextall and David Brief.
Management Job Curtis has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Deborah Trickett acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: front row Deborah Trickett, Job Curtis back row Alex Crooke, James Henderson
