14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the will be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The Company and their report for the year ended 30 June 2009. remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a combination of UK listed medium sized and small companies and up to 15% Business Review in overseas listed companies.
The following business review is designed to provide There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the information primarily about the Companys business and Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and the results for the year ended 30 June 2009.
The Business Review Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs should be read in conjunction with the Portfolio Managers a bottom-up value-based investment process to identify Report on pages 6 to 9, which gives a detailed review of the suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to cash investment activities for the year and an outlook for the future.
a Status The dividend yield of the portfolio will usually be between The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 10% and 30% above the average dividend yield for the UK 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an equity market.
There may be some holdings, selected for their investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income above average growth potential, which have a dividend yield and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 ICTA.
It is required to seek lower than the market.
approval from HM Revenue & Customs HMRC of its status as an investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 Gearing every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HMRC The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has and long term, in order to enhance performance.
Other than been received in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008, in exceptional market conditions, gearing will not exceed 20% although this approval is subject to there being no subsequent of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant enquiries under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The gearing range normally averages between are of the opinion that the Company has continued to conduct 0% and 20%.
Up to 10% of the net assets can be held in its affairs in a manner that will enable it to continue to gain cash.
Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so the portfolio can be used for the purposes of efficient that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares portfolio management.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index component of an ISA.
Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
b Investment objective and  Objective The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment The Companys objective is to provide long term growth in risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio, which at income and capital, principally by investment in UK equities.
At 30 June The Board continues to recognise the importance of dividend 2009, the largest single investment was British American income to shareholders.
Tobacco, which accounted for 6.2% of total investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 64.8%.
Policy Asset allocation The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio in While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the any single investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK listed investment corporate bonds or government debt, if it is deemed that these trusts or investment companies.
will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the c Financial review performance of the Company in the pursuit of its objective.
Assets The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in larger Total net assets at 30 June 2009 amounted to 428,882,000 companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value compared with 568,720,000 at 30 June 2008, and the net The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 15 Report of the Directors continued asset value per ordinary share decreased from 274.39p toBank facility 205.68p.
This figure is calculated by valuing the Companys At 30 June 2009 the Company had a committed short term long term debt at its nominal value.
With long term debt facility of 30m which expired in July 2009.
A new facility is calculated at its fair, or market, value year-on-year the net being negotiated.
Actual gearing at 30 June 2009 was 10.1% asset value decreased from 269.09p to 198.75p.
At 30 June 2009 there were 89 2008: 103 separateFuture developments investments, as detailed on pages 10 and 11.
While the future performance of the Company is dependent, to a large degree, on the performance of international 2009 2008 % Change Net assets as at 30 June 428.9m 568.7m -24.6 financial markets, which, in turn, are subject to many Revenue return for the year 27.28m 28.07m -2.8 external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company Dividends payable per share will continue to pursue its stated investment objective in for the year 12.32p 11.60p 6.2 accordance with the strategy outlined above.
Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the nextRevenue 12 months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement on The Companys gross revenue totalled 29,351,000 2008: page 3 and the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 8 and 9.
After deducting expenses, the revenue return for the year was 27,282,000 2008: 28,068,000.
Going concern Costs The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to In the year under review borrowing costs totalled 4,667,000, adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial the management fee totalled 1,454,000 and other expenses statements as the assets of the Company consist mainly of totalled 535,000.
These figures include VAT where securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the applicable.
No performance fee is payable as the Company did Company has adequate financial resources to continue in not outperform the benchmark index.
During the year an operational existence for the foreseeable future.
amount of 948,000 was recognised as recoverable in respect d Performance measurement and key performance of VAT borne on investment management fees in past years: indicators this amount has been accounted for as a negative expense.
In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting Further details are contained in note 23 on page 47. its objectives the directors take into account the following key Transaction costs, which include stamp duty and totalled performance indicators: 315,000, are included within the purchase costs or netted against the sales proceeds of investments.
Performance against the Companys peer group The Company is included in the AIC UK Growth and Dividends Income sector.
The Board considers the size weighted The Board aims to make progressive increases in annual average net asset value total return of its AIC peer group at dividend payments.
For the financial year under review, four each Board meeting.
With effect from 1 July 2009, the Board quarterly interim dividends of 3.08p have been declared, has determined that, instead of the FTSE All-Share Index 4% providing a total dividend of 12.32p per ordinary share, an Capped, this key performance indicator should be used for increase of 6.2% over the previous year.
calculating whether a performance fee is payable to the Payment of suppliers Investment Manager.
Further details of the proposed change It is the payment policy of the Company to obtain the best and the reasons therefor are set out in section g on page 17. possible terms for all business and, therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 June 2009.
16 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued Performance against the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped The following table sets out, with comparatives, the key The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance indicators: performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset value At 30 June At 30 June 2009 2008 and share price for the Company and the FTSE All-Share Index NAV total return -20.9% -18.3% 4% Capped.
This benchmark was adopted with effect from FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped 1 July 2005 following the Boards concerns about the total return benchmark -20.1% -14.0% increased weightings of the largest stocks in the FTSE AllFTSE All-Share Index total return -20.5% -13.0% AIC Sector NAV total return -20.7% -20.8% Share Index.
This index is calculated and maintained by FTSE Share price total return -11.6% -18.0% and is available both on the Companys website, AIC Sector share price total return -12.8% -20.7% www.
com Discount 3.2% 13.2% Total expense ratio, excluding For the year under review, the index was used to calculate performance fee 0.40% 0.37% whether a performance fee would be paid to the Investment Total expense ratio, including performance fee 0.40% 0.37% Manager.
AIC Sector average total expense ratio, excluding performance fee 0.87% 0.80% Premium discount to net asset value NAV As at 30 April 2009 2008: 30 April 2008 At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys premium discount to NAV and reviews the average e Related party transactions premium discount for the Companys AIC sector.
Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and The Company publishes an NAV per share figure on a daily administration services and custody services are provided to basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock the Company by wholly-owned subsidiary companies of Exchange.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the AIC Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson and formula which since 1 June 2008 includes current year by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
These are the only related revenue items.
Prior to that date, the AIC formula and the party arrangements currently in place.
Other than fees payable daily NAV excluded current year revenue items.
by the Company in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties Total expense ratio TER affecting the financial position or performance of the The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by the Company during the year under review.
Company including those charged to capital, expressed as a percentage of the average shareholders funds over the year.
f Management arrangements to 30 June 2009 Where applicable, a TER is shown including and excluding Investment management, UK custodial, accounting, company performance fees.
The Board regularly reviews the TER and secretarial and administration services are provided to the monitors all Company expenses.
For the year ended 30 June Company by wholly owned subsidiary companies of 2009 the TER was 0.40% 2008: 0.37%.
Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson and by BNP Paribas Securities Services under a Management Agreement which is reviewed annually and has a six months notice period.
Base management fee The base management fee is calculated at the rate of 0.30% on the first 400m of assets under management and 0.25% on assets under management in excess of 400m.
Such fees are payable quarterly in arrears based on the level of assets at the relevant quarter end.
Performance fee arrangements for the year under review In addition, a performance fee is payable annually equivalent The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 17 Report of the Directors continued to 0.1% for every 1% outperformance against the Companys appropriateness of the index as the basis for calculating the benchmark subject to a cap of 0.5% of the average assets Managers remuneration.
The Board has concluded that the under management during the year including the base index is no longer the best means of aligning the Managers management fee over the Companys accounting year.
performance with the long term interests of shareholders and the Companys investment objectives.
With effect from 1 July 2005, an adjustment to the performance fee was introduced in order to align it more Accordingly, the Board has decided to adopt the AIC UK closely to shareholders actual returns.
In the event of a Growth & Income size weighted average net asset value total significant movement in the share price, the performance fee return as the basis for measuring whether a performance fee would be reduced or increased in line with a sliding scale.
should be paid to the Manager.
The investment trusts in this Should the Companys share price decrease over the year in sector have a similar income and capital growth objective.
It is question by between 10.00% and 14.99%, the performance the Boards view that investors seeking income and capital fee element would be reduced by 10%: a fall of between growth from UK equities will judge a trust based principally on 15.00% and 19.99% in the share price would result in a its performance relative to this peer group.
It is therefore reduction of 15% of the performance fee: and a decline of appropriate for the performance of the Manager to be 20.00% or more in the share price would create a reduction measured against its peers for performance fee purposes.
of 20% in the performance fee.
This arrangement is In making this change, the Board believes that three year symmetrical and, should the share price increase over the performance should be measured rather than one year as this period, the same thresholds and increases to the performance will smooth out short term positive or negative performance fee would apply.
This could mean that the total fee paid may and only reward consistent outperformance.
For the year to exceed the 0.5% cap by up to 20% of the performance fee.
30 June 2010, the performance fee will be calculated on the Underperformance in any accounting year must be made performance of the Company for the period from 1 July 2007 good in full before a performance fee is payable in any to 30 June 2010. subsequent accounting year whilst any outperformance in In addition, a hurdle rate of 15% is being introduced so the excess of the cap may be carried forward solely for the Manager is not rewarded for average performance.
This purpose of making good subsequent underperformance for a means that a performance fee will only be paid if City of maximum of the next two accounting years.
Londons net asset value total return is at least 15% better g New fee arrangements with effect from than the sector.
The performance fee payable will be 15% of 1 July 2009 the cash value of the outperformance above the hurdle rate From 1 July 2009 base management fees will be calculated subject to an overall cap on total fees paid in any one year of based on net assets and not gross assets as this ensures that 0.55% of average net assets.
there is no financial incentive for the Manager to take on The adjustment factor, which enhances or reduces any gearing, other than to enhance performance.
To ensure that performance fee payable where the share price total return the Manager continues to receive a broadly equivalent fee in has been more than 10% positive or negative, has been cash terms, the fee rate will be increased to a flat 0.35% doubled.
This will further strengthen the link between the currently 0.30% of gross assets up to 400m and 0.25% reward to the Manager for outperformance and shareholder thereafter.
The absolute cap of total fees payable in any one Under the current arrangements the Manager, Henderson year will therefore be 0.63% of average net assets.
Global Investors, is able to earn a performance fee by These new fee arrangements will maintain the Companys outperforming the FTSE All-Share Index capped at 4%.
Recent position of having one of the lowest base management fees developments in the make-up of the index, however, together and one of the lowest total expense ratios in the AIC UK with the fact that many prominent companies have reduced Growth & Income Sector.
or cancelled their dividend payments, means that in the Boards view it has become necessary to review the 18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued h Principal risks and uncertainties how they are managed are contained in Note 16 on pages The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company 42 to 45. and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and Operational restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, dealing objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as or payment systems or custody records could prevent the practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: position.
The Company is also exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not provide the required Portfolio and market level of service.
Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may move Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by rapidly.
The companies in which investments are made may the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in the market designed to provide effective internal control, are explained value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect further in the internal controls section on page 22. on shareholders funds.
The Board reviews the portfolio each i Employee and environmental matters month and mitigates this risk through diversification of The Company has no employees and outsources its investments in the portfolio.
investment management and company secretarial services to Investment activit y and performance subsidiaries of Henderson.
Henderson has implemented An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of environmental management practices, which include systems asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in to limit the use of non-renewable resources and minimise the underperformance against the Companys benchmark index impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on and the companies in its peer group.
The Board monitors reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, investment performance at each Board meeting and regularly where possible.
reviews the extent of its borrowings.
Corporate Governance Statement Tax and regulatory risks a Applicable corporate governance codes A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance Act 1988 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing resulting in capital gains realised within the portfolio being Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have subject to corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the could result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a 2008 Combined Code.
As an investment trust, most of the breach of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 could lead to Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third criminal proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are Company must also ensure compliance with the listing rules all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the 2008 of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Combined Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The Manager has contracted to provide investment, company The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in secretarial, administration and accounting services through February 2007 that it remained the view of the FRC that by qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which Companies produced by the Association of Investment confirm regulatory compliance.
Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment Financial companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
activities are exposed to market risk including market price The AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set credit and counterparty risk.
Details of these risks and out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code, as well as The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 19 Report of the Directors continued setting out additional principles and recommendations on Board currently consists of five non-executive directors.
The issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
biographies of the directors holding office at the date of this report, which are set out on page 13, demonstrate the The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc believes breadth of investment, commercial and professional that reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC experience relevant to their positions as directors.
David Brief Guide will provide the most appropriate information to was appointed a director on 1 January 2009.
All the other shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and directors served on the Board throughout the year.
Angus recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC Russell retired from the Board on 30 June 2009.
Code and the AIC Guide can be found on www.
co. uk Directors appointment, retirement and rotation b Statement of compliance The Board may appoint directors to the Board and any The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors believe director so appointed must stand for election by the that during the year under review they have complied with shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Brief, who Companys business, and with the provisions of the 2008 was appointed by the Board during the year, will therefore Combined Code except as noted below.
stand for election at the 2009 AGM.
Senior independent director All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
A senior independent director has not been identified as the The Articles of Association require one-third or the number Board considers that all the directors have different qualities nearest to one-third of the directors to retire by rotation at and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues each AGM, while the AIC Code requires each director to retire arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
at intervals of not more than three years.
Directors may then The role of chief executive offer themselves for re-election.
The directors retiring by Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day rotation at the forthcoming AGM are Simon fide Zoete and management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Anita Frew, who were both last re-elected in 2006.
Both Mr Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
fide Zoete and Miss Frew, being eligible, have stated that they will offer themselves for re-election.
Executive directors remuneration As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required to Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a comply with the principles of the Combined Code in respect director before the end of his term by passing an ordinary of executive directors remuneration and does not have a resolution at a meeting.
An ordinary resolution is passed if Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the more than 50% of the votes cast, in person or by proxy, are in Directors Remuneration Report on page 28. favour of the resolution.
Internal audit functionBoard independence As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day The directors reviewed their independence and confirm that operations and has no employees, the Board has determined all directors, with the exception of Mr Brief, remain wholly that there is no requirement for an internal audit function.
Mr Brief is a director of another The directors annually review whether a function equivalent to investment trust managed by the Investment Manager.
All an internal audit is needed and will continue to monitor its directors have a wide range of other interests and are not systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that dependent on the Company itself.
Two members of the current Board, Mr fide Zoete and Sir Keith c Directors Stuart, have served on the Board for nine years.
The Board Board composition believes that length of service does not diminish the The Articles of Association provide that the total number of contribution from a director: conversely a directors experience directors shall not be less than three nor more than seven: the and knowledge of the Company can be a positive benefit to 20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued the Board and retaining directors with sufficient experience of such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but both the Company and the markets is of great benefit to only if the articles of association contain a provision to this shareholders.
Moreover, long-serving directors are less likely to effect.
The Act also allows the articles of association to take a short-term view.
The directors have reviewed the contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of balance of ages and experience of all of the Board members interest to avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours and confirm that Mr fide Zoete and Sir Keith Stuart continue to either the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely provide a valuable and beneficial contribution to the Company to give rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been and that their experience complements the abilities of the authorised in advance by the directors.
The Companys new other directors.
The Board has therefore concluded that they Articles of Association, which were adopted by shareholders remain independent.
In order to comply with the provisions of on 16 October 2008, give the directors the relevant authority the Combined Code, however, Mr fide Zoete and Sir Keith required to deal with conflicts of interest.
Stuart will seek annual re-election by shareholders.
Mr fide Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts Zoete is already required to retire through the rotation of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if any, applicable requirements set out above.
Sir Keith Stuart will also seek reto the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest has been election at this years AGM.
compiled and approved by the Board.
Going forward, the There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the directors have also all undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the interest that would need to be approved by the Board and added to the Register, which will be reviewed annually by Companys business.
Directors remuneration It has also been agreed that directors will advise the Chairman A report on directors remuneration is on page 28. and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed Directors interests in shares external appointment and new directors will be asked to The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the submit a list of potential situations falling within the conflicts Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are of interest provisions of the 2006 Act in advance of joining shown in the table below.
The Chairman will then determine whether the Ordinary shares of 25p 30 June 2009 1 July 2008 relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential conflict of interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Beneficial: Simon fide Zoete 189,607 177,323 Only directors who have no interest in the matter being i David Brief 4,000 considered will be able to participate in the Board approval Anita Frew 5,000 5,000 process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of interest, Richard Hextall 4,000 directors will also act in a way they consider, in good faith, Angus Russell 8,160 6,460 will be most likely to promote the Companys success in Sir Keith Stuart 209,480 167,835 taking such a decision.
The Board can impose limits or i Appointed 1 January 2009 conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider Since the year end, the following directors have become this to be appropriate.
interested in further shares: Simon fide Zoete 332, and Sir Keith The Board believes that its powers of authorisation of conflicts Stuart 405 shares.
has operated effectively since they were introduced on Directors conflicts of interest 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms that its procedures Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, or for the approval of conflicts of interest have been followed by could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or all the directors.
possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the Act has allowed directors of public companies to authorise The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 21 Report of the Directors continued Directors professional development performance, independence and objectivity, as well as any nonWhen a new director is appointed he or she is offered a training audit services provided by the auditors, and the half year report.
It seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
Directors are meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and also provided on a regular basis with key information on the receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and accounting records and management information maintained on internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are behalf of the Company.
When applicable, the auditors are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly engaged to review the calculation of any performance fee due at participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
This is considered to be a non-audit service.
Directors indemnity During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a review of Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in the audit services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, who had been respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association the statutory auditors to the Company for several years.
As a provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an result of its review, the Board decided to appoint indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur  LLP, and Ernst & Young were therefore relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against asked to resign.
 LLP, who were them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they appointed in January 2009, have indicated their willingness to are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the appointment of  LLP as auditors to the d The Board Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
During the year eight Board meetings were held to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The Board hasNominations Committee a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its All directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The decision, categorised under various headings, which include Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee strategy and management, structure and capital, financial but would not chair the Committee when the Chairmans reporting and controls, internal controls, communications, successor was being considered.
The Committee is responsible board and committee memberships and corporate governance.
for reviewing Board succession planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees and the The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and the appointment of new directors.
The terms of reference for these Committees are available on the Companys website.
The Board The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it the directors to retire by rotation.
Reappointment as a director remains the role of the Board as a whole with the exception of is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of Mr Brief to keep under review the terms of the management each directors performance.
In accordance with the agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager.
Combined Code any director serving for longer than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her Audit Committee contribution and any director serving for longer than nine During the year under review, the Audit Committee members years would be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
were Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Richard Hextall and Angus Russell.
Following Mr Russells resignation on 30 June 2009, When considering succession planning, the Committee bears in Mr Brief has joined the Audit Committee.
The Audit mind the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing Committee comprises two independent members and at least on the Board and will recommend when the recruitment of one member who has competence in accounting.
additional non-executive directors is required.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to the Board, each director The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is is invited to submit nominations and these are considered in responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature and accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
The Committee scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, the terms may also use external agencies as and when the requirement to of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration, recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary.
22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued The Committee met in June 2009 to carry out its annual The Board is responsible overall for the Companys system of review of the Board, its composition and size and its internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The directors retiring by rotation are set out on such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate page 19 above.
The results of the performance evaluation are risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives contained in e below.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed Board attendance the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls Attendance at the Board and committees meetings held for the year ended 30 June 2009.
During the course of its during the financial year are shown below.
All directors usually review of internal controls, the Board has not identified or attend the Annual General Meeting.
been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have been Audit Nominations determined as significant.
Board Committee Committee No of meetings 8 2 1 The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a Simon fide Zoete 8 1 full review of the Companys business risks and these have been i David Brief 4 1 analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
Anita Frew 7 1 Richard Hextall 8 2 1 The Investment Manager has established an internal control Angus Russell 6 2 framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance Sir Keith Stuart 8 2 1 on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on i Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2009 behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk e Performance evaluation department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each The Company quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which The performance of the Company is considered in detail at details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including each Board meeting.
those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which reports the details of any known internalThe Board control failures.
The Board receives each year from the The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board Investment Manager a report on its internal controls which Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee in includes a report from the Investment Managers auditors on June 2009 and no areas of concern were identified.
the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will Individual directors continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control The Chairman reviews each individual directors contribution on and risk management into the operation and culture of the an annual basis.
The Nominations Committee meets without Company and its key suppliers.
the Chairman present in order to review the performance of the Chairman.
At the 2009 Nominations Committee Meeting it g Accountability and relationship with Investment was agreed that the Chairman continues to promote effective Manager leadership and each of the directors contributes valuable The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the experience and skills to the Board.
Financial Statements is set out on page 27, the Independent Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going f Internal controls Concern on page 15.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The The Board has delegated contractually to external third process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords parties, including the Investment Manager, the management with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull include the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day Guidance.
The process has been in place since 2 March accounting, company secretarial and administration 2000 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
Each of these contracts The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 23 Report of the Directors continued was entered into after full and proper consideration by the company secretarial and administration services, and the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including Investment Managers promotion of investment and savings the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted the affairs of the Company.
Investment Managers resources and experience in managing and administering investment trust companies.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman directors that the continued appointment of the current attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of companies managed by the Investment Manager: these the Companys shareholders as a whole.
meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the Although the Company has underperformed its benchmark over Chairman reports on them to the Board.
the past year, the Board has borne in mind the Companys The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase performance vis--vis other investment trusts in its sector.
The and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager Board has also reviewed the basis of remunerating the Manager also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all and a new performance fee arrangement has been agreed with relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
effect from 1 July 2009 to align remuneration more closely with Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board performance against the peer group and the Companys share meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of price performance.
Full details are set out on page 17. concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for i Share capital and shareholders decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure Share capital adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to The Companys equity and non-equity share capital comprises: take independent professional advice at the expense of the i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there were through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and 207,574,868 ordinary shares in issue including 308,090 shares being held in treasury.
During the year, a further that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, co- 50,000 shares representing 0.02% of the number of shares in issue at the beginning of the year were bought back and operative and open environment.
put into treasury for a total consideration excluding stamp h Continued appointment of the Investment duty and commissions of 110,000.
All 358,090 shares Manager were sold out of treasury during the year for a total The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of consideration of 670,000.
In addition, a further 945,000 investment management and other services to the Company ordinary shares were allotted for a total consideration of on an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement 1,857,000.
At 30 June 2009 there were no shares with the Investment Manager are contained on pages 16 remaining in treasury, and the number of ordinary shares in and 17. issue with voting rights was 208,519,868.
The Board reviews investment performance at each Board ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of conducted annually.
As part of the annual review in July 2009 stock held.
At 1 July 2008 and at 30 June 2009 there was the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to performance and results achieved to iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second preference stockholders have no rights to attend and vote date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the Investment Manager to the Company, such as accounting, at general meetings except on the winding-up of the 24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued Company or if dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2008Relations with shareholders and at 30 June 2009 there was 507,202 of second Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The preference stock in issue.
prime medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders is through the Half Year Report and Annual iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting rights Report and Financial Statements which aim to provide of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one vote per shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2008 and at 30 June 2009 activities and their results.
This information is supplemented there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
by the daily calculation and publication at the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Further details on the first and second preference stock and Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
the preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred Stock are contained in note 15 on pages 40 and 41.
The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, which is Since 30 June 2009 and up to the date of this report a further chaired by the Chairman of the Board and which all directors 100,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a total normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address consideration of 211,250.
The number of shares in issue of questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the the date of this report is 208,619,778.
Audit Committee and all other directors at the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the Investment There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Manager, makes a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
It is the intention of the Board that Substantial share interests the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Notice of Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company, Annual General Meeting be issued to shareholders so as to at 30 August 2009, are set out below.
provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the Shareholder % of voting rights meeting are invited to do so by writing to the Company Legal & General 3.9% Secretary at the Registered Office address given on the inside Axa S. A.
The Board is aware that, as at 30 August 2009, 17.5% of the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings the Halifax Share Dealing products, run by Halifax Share between the Investment Manager and shareholders are Dealing Limited HSDL, which is now part of Lloyds reported to the Board.
In accordance with the arrangements made between HSDL and Henderson, the participants in the Halifax New Zealand listing Share Dealing products are given the opportunity to instruct It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate the nominee company of HSDL to exercise the voting rights Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock appertaining to their shares in respect of all general meetings Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the of the Company.
HSDL has undertaken to instruct its nominee Corporate Best Practice Code.
company to exercise the voting rights of any shares held through the Halifax Share Dealing products that have not Board authori ties to issue and buy back share capital been exercised by the individual participants in them.
It will do The directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put at all allot new ordinary shares, to disapply the pre-emption rights general meetings of the Company or by withholding votes on of existing shareholders, and to buy back for cancellation or such resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions to be held in treasury the Companys ordinary shares.
In for each resolution received from those participants who have chosen to exercise their voting rights.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 25 Report of the Directors continued addition, the directors seek annual authority to buy back and Resolution 10 Power to disapply pre-emption rights special cancel the Companys preferred and preference stocks.
More resolution details of the authorities sought at the AGM are set out in the At the AGM on 16 October 2008, the directors were also Annual General Meeting section below.
empowered to allot securities of a limited value for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in j Exercise of voting powers accordance with statutory pre-emption procedures.
Since the The Company has approved a corporate governance voting 2008 AGM, the directors have used this power to issue policy which accords with current best practice whilst 1,403,090 shares 358,090 shares out of treasury and maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The Board still has authority to issue a further 8,957,746 shares.
This authority will expire at the Annual General Meeting AGM 2009 AGM.
Resolution 10, which is a special resolution, will The following information is important and requires be proposed to give the directors power to allot securities for your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a maximum aggregate the action you should take, you should consult an nominal amount of 2,607,747 being 5% of the issued share independent financial adviser, authorised under the capital excluding any shares held in treasury as at the date of Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have the Notice of the AGM.
Pre-emption rights under the sold or transferred all of your voting rights in the Companies Act apply to the resale of treasury shares for cash, Company, please forward this document with its just as they do for the allotment of new shares.
The Boards accompanying form of proxy at once to the purchaser or intention is that resolution 10 will relate to either new issues transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent or to the resale of treasury shares.
through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in The AGM will be held on Thursday 15 October 2009 at the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be 3.00pm.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out on pages 53 advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do and 54.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each so and when it would not result in any dilution of net asset substantive issue.
Resolutions relating to the following items value per share, that is at a premium to net asset value, the of special business will be proposed at the AGM, for which net asset value being calculated with debt at fair value.
If shareholder approval is required in order to comply with the renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the Companies Act 2006. conclusion of the AGM in 2010.
Resolution 9 Authority to allot shares ordinary resolution Resolution 11 Authority to make market purchases of the At the AGM on 16 October 2008 the directors were granted Companys own shares special resolution authority to allot a limited number of authorised but unissued On 16 October 2008 the directors were granted authority to ordinary shares.
Since then, 1,045,000 shares have been repurchase 31,061,795 ordinary shares with a nominal value allotted under this authority and the Boards remaining of 7,765,448 for cancellation or to be held in treasury: authority is to allot up to 9,315,836 shares.
This authority will 50,000 shares were repurchased during the year and placed in expire at the forthcoming AGM in October 2009.
An ordinary treasury before being resold.
The Board has remaining resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2009 authority to purchase 31,011,795 shares.
This authority will AGM to authorise the directors to allot shares up to a expire at the forthcoming AGM in October 2009. maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,607,747 being 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of In Resolution 11 the Board is seeking shareholder approval to the AGM.
The resolution is set out in full in the Notice of the renew the authority to purchase on the London Stock AGM on page 53.
Exchange up to a maximum of 14.99% of the Companys 26 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Report of the Directors continued ordinary shares in issue excluding any shares held in treasury from 14 to 21 days.
However, companies are permitted to seek at the date of the AGM equivalent to 31,272,105 ordinary shareholder approval, by way of a special resolution, for general shares of 25p, with a nominal value of 7,818,026, at meetings other than the annual general meeting to be called 8 September 2009, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
Therefore, in order to ensure maximum flexibility in communicating with shareholders, the Board is The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do seeking authority at the 2009 AGM to be able to call general so would result in an increase in the net asset value per meetings other than the annual general meeting on the ordinary share and would be in the best interests of shortest permissable notice.
This authority will only be used if to shareholders generally.
The authority being sought provides an do so will be in the best interests of shareholders.
The Company additional source of potential demand for the Companys will only be able to take advantage of this authority if all shares.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase shareholders are given the opportunity but not the obligation shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases to vote at such a general meeting by electronic means.
when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising the benefit to shareholders.
The Board considers the use of Recommendation treasury shares is beneficial to the Companys shareholders The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the and would expect, if shareholder approval is renewed, to hold above items of special business are in the best interests any ordinary shares repurchased in treasury up to the of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board maximum permitted under the Companies Act 2006. unanimously recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed The Board considers that the use of share buy backs can at the forthcoming AGM.
Shares are only purchased at a price below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information increasing the net asset value of the remaining shares.
to Auditors The directors who were members of the Board at the time of Resolution 12 Authority to repurchase Preferred Stock approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those special resolution directors confirms that: The Board wishes to renew the authority to make market purchases of its Preferred Stock.
No Preferred Stock has been to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no repurchased under the authority granted at the AGM in information relevant to the preparation of their report of October 2008.
As previously, the maximum price payable for which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each 1 of Preferred Stock would not be more than 10% they have taken all the steps a direc tor might reasonably above the prevailing middle market value of the relevant class of Preferred Stock for the business day preceding the date of be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors purchase which, given that the stock is lightly traded, the directors believe represents a suitable basis for determining an are aware of that information.
appropriate maximum purchase price: the minimum purchase price per 1 of stock would be 1p.
The directors would only make such purchases if they were considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and any Preferred Stock repurchased would be cancelled.
By order of the Board Resolution 13 Authority to hold a general meeting on D J Trickett ACIS For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 14 days notice special resolution The notice period for general meetings other than the annual Secretary 8 September 2009 general meeting has been extended under recent legislation
