Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 25 Governance Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Share Capital statements for the year ended 31 July 2009.
As at 31 July 2009 the company had 149.5 million ordinary shares in issue with a nominal value of 25.0p each.
Details of Business Review and Principal Activities changes in the companys ordinary share capital during the Close Brothers Group plc is the parent company of a group of year are given in note 23 on page 77 of the Financial companies engaged in financial services.
On a show of hands, each member has the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
On a poll, The principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July 2009 and each member is entitled to one vote for every share held.
The their principal activities are listed in note 26 on page 81 of the shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No person has any Financial Statements.
special rights of control over the companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual During the year the company issued 90,242 ordinary shares of Report, each of which are incorporated by reference into, and 25.0p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of form part of, this Report of the Directors: the options exercised, the weighted average option exercise price and the weighted average market price at the date of Pages exercise can be found in note 31 on page 86 of the Financial Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 4 to 7 Statements.
The Board of Directors 8 to 9 Restrictions on the transfer of shares Business Review 11 to 2 1 There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties 22 to 24 companys shares, although the Articles of Association contain provisions whereby the directors may refuse to Corporate Governance 27 to 34 register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully Corporate Responsibility 35 to 36 paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings in Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration 37 to 50 the share from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Financial Statements 52 to 96 directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is: i lodged, duly stamped, at the Results and Dividends registered office or at such other place as the directors may The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 52. appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the shares to The directors recommend a final dividend for 2009 of 25.5p which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may 2008: 25.5p on each ordinary share which, together with the reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make interim dividend of 13.5p 2008: 13.5p, makes an ordinary the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: and iii distribution for the year of 39.0p 2008: 39.0p per share.
The in favour of not more than four transferees.
final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM, will be paid on 19 November 2009 The directors may suspend the registration of transfers of to shareholders on the register as at 9 October 2009. shares or of transfers of any class of shares at such times and for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors board may determine, except that they may not suspend the The current directors of the company at the date of this report registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without appear on pages 8 and 9.
Other than Ray Greenshields who the consent of CREST.
joined the board on 13 November 2008, Preben Prebensen who joined the board on 1 April 2009 and Colin Keogh who The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a stepped down from the board on the same date, all the shareholder has not supplied information to the company in directors held office throughout the year ended 31 July 2009. default of a request duly served under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% Directors interests of the class of shares concerned.
The directors interests in the share capital of the company as at 31 July 2009 are set out on page 45.
The company is unaware of any arrangements between its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Appointment of directors and powers of directors shares and or voting rights.
Details on the appointment of directors and the powers of directors are set out on page 28.
New issues of share capital Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, Directors indemnity within certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities The companys Articles of Association provide that each without express authorisation, which may be contained in a director and the company secretary shall be indemnified by companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders the company to the extent permissible under UK company in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last more law against any costs incurred by them in defending than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, the board may proceedings brought against them arising out of their also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an positions as director or company secretary in which they are employee share scheme without first making an offer to acquitted or judgement is given in their favour or relief from existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same liability for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective trust is granted to them by the court.
shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
indd 25 30 9 09 18:33:09 30 9 09 18:33:09 Server: studio 2 Set up: rich First Read Revisions Serv 26 Close Brothers Annual Report 2009 Governance Report of the Directors continued Purchase of Own Shares management objectives and policies are set out in note 33 on The existing authority given to the company at the last AGM pages 89 to 95 to the Financial Statements.
to make market purchases of up to 15% of its issued share capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
Supplier Payment Policy All banking, securities and investment transactions are settled The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this in accordance with applicable terms and conditions of authority and intend to seek shareholder approval to make business agreed with the counterparty.
Average creditor days market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share capital at the for all other approved expenses was 21 2008: 22. forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included in Charitable and Political Donations the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The group made charitable donations in the year amounting to 154,000 2008: 168,000.
Further details are set out in During the year ended 31 July 2009, the company made the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 35 and 36.
No market purchases of 3.9 million of its own shares Treasury political donations were made during the year 2008: nil.
Shares, representing 2.59% of the issued share capital and for an aggregate consideration excluding stamp duty of 22 million.
Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting All purchases of Treasury Shares were market purchases through The companys AGM will be held on 18 November 2009.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to the companys is 25.0p and the maximum price is the higher of: i an amount shareholders, which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at equal to 5% above the average of the middle market quotations the meeting.
The resolutions to be proposed include the for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange renewal of the directors authority to allot shares, the Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is disapplication of pre-emption rights and the authority for the made: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the company to purchase its own shares.
In addition, the board will last independent trade and the highest current independent bid be asking shareholders to approve the adoption of a new on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List at the time the Omnibus Share Incentive Plan and to approve the adoption of purchase is carried out.
new Articles of Association to take into account a number of developments in law applicable to companies since the current The companys policy is to hold Treasury Shares for the Articles of Association were adopted at last years AGM.
purpose of satisfying option grants and share awards under the companys employee share plans.
During the year ended The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of 31 July 2009, 388,694 Treasury Shares were transferred out to Annual General Meeting.
A letter from the chairman which satisfy share option awards, for a total consideration of explains the purpose of the resolutions will accompany the 1.8 million.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at Notice of Annual General Meeting.
any time during the year was 5.7 million with a nominal value of 1.4 million.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys Substantial Shareholdings auditors and to give the directors the authority to determine Details on substantial shareholdings in the company are set the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the out on page 33. forthcoming AGM.
Significant Contracts Disclosure of Information to Auditors A change of control of the company following a takeover bid Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval may cause a number of agreements to which the company is of this Annual Report confirm that: party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include certain insurance policies, bank facility agreements and employee So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit share plans.
information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and The group has committed facilities totalling 1.8 billion as at 31 July 2009 which contain clauses which require lender He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be director in order to make himself aware of any relevant given, a change of control would trigger mandatory audit information and to establish that the companys prepayment of the facility.
auditor is aware of that information.
All of the companys employee share plans contain provisions This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the options may vest and become exercisable on a change of Companies Act 2006. control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these By order of the board agreements are not considered to be significant.
R. D. Sellers Risk Management Company Secretary The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and evaluate the significant risks it faces.
