ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:05 Page 3 CORE TECHNOLOGIES THERMAL PROCESSING Bodycote provides thermal processing services which improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, enabling manufacturers components to work more efficiently with significantly extended operational lifetimes.
Bodycotes treatment services consist of a number of core technologies: heat treatment and metal joining, hot isostatic pressing HIP and surface technology.
HEAT TREATMENT AND METAL JOINING Heat treatments are controlled processes used to alter the microstructure of materials, such as metals and alloys, to impart properties which benefit the working life of a component, for example: increased surface hardness, temperature resistance, ductility and strength.
Metal joining includes specialist processes such as electron beam welding, vacuum and honeycomb brazing - complex operations requiring a fusion of expertise and technology.
Bodycote offers an extensive range of heat treatment services and specialist metal joining techniques from facilities around the world.
With unmatched capacity and computerised systems, Bodycote facilities can process a wide range of component sizes to exacting standards with reliable, repeatable results.
HOT ISOSTATIC PRESSING HIP HIP combines very high temperature up to 2,000C with inert gas under very high pressure up to 30,000 psi - equivalent to that found at an ocean depth of 11,000m such as at the bottom of the Mariana Trench in the Pacific Ocean.
HIP can be used to eliminate porosity in castings and consolidate encapsulated powders to dense materials.
Dissimilar materials can be bonded together to manufacture unique, cost effective components.
Every week a typical Bodycote HIP plant will process many tons of titanium, aluminium, steel and super-alloy castings, removing porosity and improving the performance of parts such as turbine blades and oilfield components.
With the largest operational capacity in the world and a wide variety of sizes of equipment, Bodycote HIP is able to accommodate large volumes of small product as economically as large individual components.
SURFACE TECHNOLOGY Surface technologies are used extensively to prolong the working life of components and protect them from environmental factors such as corrosion and abrasion.
The range of surface treatments available from Bodycote covers a wide variety of applications, providing manufacturers with solutions to meet requirements such as durability, wear resistance, improved hardness and electrical conductivity.
Bodycote is a provider of specialist plasma spray, high velocity oxy fuel HVOF and thermally formed ceramic treatments and is able to surface engineer components including complex geometric shapes and internal bores that are designed to operate in the most demanding of industrial applications.... thermal processing is a vital part of any manufacturing process and includes a variety of techniques and specialist engineering processes which improve the properties of metals and alloys to extend the life of components BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 3
