ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 38 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited SHARE CAPITAL financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 31 December 2009 was 32.5m and during the year was increased by the issue The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the of 636,588 ordinary shares between 30 April and 9 December 2009 Finance Directors Report, and all the information contained on for a total consideration of 383,297 in connection with the Companys pages 8 to 55 together comprise the Directors Report for executive share incentive schemes.
At the Annual General Meeting the year ended 31 December 2009. on 27 April 2009 the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES up to 18,753,112 of its own shares.
This authority expires at the The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on business in the provision of thermal processing services.
on 28 April 2010, at which time a further authority will be sought The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings from shareholders.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE GROUP REVIEW Details of the authorised and issued share capital are shown The Group Review, which encompasses: in note 25.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one the Chairmans Statement, vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific the Chief Executives Review, restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, Strategy and Objectives, both of which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware Business Performance and Key Performance Indicators, of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that Business Overview, may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting Business Review, rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28 the Finance Directors Report: and and shares held by the Bodycote Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting and waive dividend.
No person has any special rights Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are is provided on pages 8 to 37 of this annual report.
The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed This is a review of the development of the businesses of the Group, by the Companys Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the financial performance during the year ended 31 December 2009, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles of Association key performance indicators and a description of the principal risks may be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
The powers and uncertainties facing the Group, and information about the use of the Directors are described in the Corporate Governance statement of financial instruments.
The Group review has been prepared solely on page 40.
Under the Articles of Association the Company has to assist the shareholders in assessing the Groups strategies and authority to issue ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1,619,586. the potential of those strategies.
It should not be relied on by any There are also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter, other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements have crystallise or terminate upon a change of control of the Company been made by the Directors in good faith using information available following a takeover bid such as commercial contracts, bank loan up to the date of this report and such statements should be regarded agreements, property lease agreements, employment contracts with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be trends and business risks.
Since the end of the financial year, significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the with the exception of the re-financing as detailed on page 32, Group as a whole, and the Directors are not aware of any agreements no important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
between the Company and themselves or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs DIVIDENDS because of a takeover bid.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.35p per ordinary share making a total for the year of 8.30p per share 2008: 8.30p.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 7 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 April 2010.
38 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:09 Page 39 DIRECTORS In order to ensure that each Director was complying with the new The current Directors and their biographical details are listed on duties, each Director provided the Company with a formal declaration page 55 and all served throughout the year.
Messrs J. D. Hubbard to disclose what Situational Conflicts affected him.
The Board reviewed and D. R. Sleight both retired on 27 April 2009 at the Annual General the declarations and approved the existence of each declared Meeting.
A. Biles are retiring by rotation, Situational Conflict until October 2010 and permitted each affected and both being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by shareholders Director to attend and vote at Bodycote Directors meetings, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The service agreement on the basis that each such Director continued to keep Bodycotes for Mr Landless is terminable by 12 months notice.
Mr Biles does information confidential, and provided overall that such authorisation not have a service agreement with the Company and his appointment remained appropriate and in the interests of shareholders.
Where such is terminable by six months notice.
authorisation becomes inappropriate or not in the interests of Bodycote shareholders, the Chairman, or the Nomination Committee, can revoke PROPOSALS FOR RE-ELECTION an authorisation.
No such revocations have been made.
Messrs Landless and Biles were re-elected by shareholders in 2007 and 2008 respectively and, in accordance with the Articles EMPLOYMENT of Association, now stand for re-election by the shareholders of the The Group recognises the value that can be added to its Company.
The Board recommends to shareholders that they re-elect future profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
the two directors offering themselves for re-election.
The performance The commitment of employees to excel is key to the Groups of Mr Biles as a non-executive director was evaluated in October 2009 continued success.
Through their attendance at, or participation by the Chairman, who confirms that his performance continues to in strategy, production, safety and health meetings at site level, be effective and that he has continued throughout to demonstrate employees are kept up to date with the performance and progress commitment to the roles of Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Group, the contribution to the Group made by their site and of the Audit Committee.
The performance of Mr Landless as Group are advised of safety and health issues.
The Group publishes in Finance Director was evaluated in January 2010 by the Chief Executive, eleven languages, via the Group extranet, an electronic magazine who confirms that his performance continues to be effective.
for all staff detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities and has also featured the Groups open door policy DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS & SHARES under which employee concerns can be voiced on a confidential Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and details basis.
Approximately 1,800 Bodycote employees are connected to of the Directors interests in the Companys shares, share option the Bodycote Extranet, which improves knowledge of Group activities, schemes and share incentive plans are shown in the Board Report and assists greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
on Remuneration on pages 46 to 53.
No Director has had any dealings It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2009. for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular Qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career of the Companies Act 2006 has remained in force for the Directors development of all personnel employed by the Group, including for the year ended 31 December 2009 and, as at the date of this disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Group, report, remains in force for the benefit of the current Directors in where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have appropriate training.
An equal opportunities policy is in operation incurred to third parties in the course of their duties.
these exceptions, none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Company and its RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best POTENTIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts During 2008 the duties owed by directors to a company were research programmes with its customers.
codified and extended by the Companies Act 2006 so that directors not only had to declare actual conflicts of interests in transactions DONATIONS as they arose but also had a duty to avoid such conflicts whether Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted real or potential.
Potential conflicts of interest could arise where a to 2,750 2008: 11,050.
There were no political contributions single director owes a fiduciary duty to more than one organisation in 2008 or 2009. a Situational Conflict which typically will be the case where a non-executive director holds directorships in more than one company.
BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 39
