ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:05 Page 4 THE OUTSOURCING PRINCIPLE THE PARTNER OF CHOICE MAKING INNOVATIONS POSSIBLE Bodycote has become the partner of choice for the worlds most Bodycotes extensive facilities and expertise mean R&D projects can respected and innovative engineering companies by providing highly expand far beyond customers in-house capabilities, helping to realise efficient, cost-effective services to the highest quality standards goals quicker and more cost-effectively.
through strategic investment in people and the latest technology, Around the globe, Bodycote has dedicated R&D teams working on equipment and quality systems.
When required, this may include the development By outsourcing non-core but vitally important thermal processing of specific processes and equipment for a customer or verification requirements to Bodycote, customers are able to concentrate their of materials or designs, prior to their application.
business resources where they are needed most.
Bodycote's In-house development and improvement of standard processes services offer tangible benefits to customers such as reduced has led to Bodycote offering a range of proprietary processes such equipment maintenance, capital expenditure, energy costs, as Kolsterising, Corr-I-Dur and SheraCote, which far outperform people costs and a major reduction in CO emissions.
Bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing partnerships, from global to local manufacturers.
In many cases, subcontracting relationships lead to component and service-specific long-term agreements, or strategic partnering arrangements, which embody protection and freedom from risk for the customer and Bodycote.
These are often exclusive in character and provide the basis for mutual business development, with both companies freed to concentrate capital and other resources on core competencies.
4 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS ID4874 Bc AR2009 14. qxp 5 3 10 16:06 Page 5 Bodycote has a long history of successful outsourcing partnerships, from global to local manufacturers... BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 5
