DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio statements for the year to 31 December 2009. managers often impose high minimum investment requirements and place stringent restrictions on the number Principal Activity of investors whose money they will manage.
By investing Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey with these and other portfolio managers, the Company seeks authorised closed-ended investment company listed on the to provide investors with access to the varied skills and London Stock Exchange.
Trading in the Companys ordinary expertise of such portfolio managers which may not shares since reclassified as shares commenced on otherwise be available to such investors, while at the same 19 December 2002. time attempting to lessen the risks and volatility associated with investing through any single hedge fund or portfolio Company Law manager.
The Company also enables investors to avoid, to a These financial statements have been prepared under The significant extent, the high minimum investment Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. requirements typically imposed on individual investors investing in hedge funds directly.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to generate Although the Investment Adviser allocates the Companys consistent long-term capital appreciation with low volatility assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one and little correlation with the general equity and bond or more of the strategies described on page 49, the markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
Investment Adviser does not follow a rigid policy and, subject The Companys investment objective is consistent with that to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment of Aurora LP Aurora, which is the Investment Advisers strategies, the Companys assets may be deployed in flagship fund.
whatever funds and investment strategies the Investment Adviser deems appropriate.
The Company is not restricted Although not forming part of the Companys investment from participating in any market, strategy or investment, and objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology the Investment Adviser may alter or modify some or all of the and portfolio management is consistent with that of Aurora.
Companys underlying investment strategies in light of available investment opportunities and prevailing economic However, it has not been, and may continue not to be possible and market conditions if the Investment Adviser determines for the Company always to invest in the same underlying that such alterations or modifications are consistent with the funds that Aurora is invested in to the same extent or at all Companys investment objective, subject to what the and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora may differ Investment Adviser considers an acceptable level of risk.
The materially from those payable by the Company.
Accordingly, Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is the Companys performance will not mirror that of Aurora.
consistent with its objective of spreading investment risk.
Investment Policy The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a The Companys investment policy is to invest in an actively particular portfolio manager may be based, in part, on the managed portfolio of hedge funds which is diversified by Investment Advisers contact and experience with the portfolio investment strategy, style and manager, to achieve attractive manager.
Allocations are also a function of the degree of risk risk-adjusted returns with low correlation to equity and fixed that the Investment Adviser seeks i to include funds managed interest benchmarks.
The Investment Adviser seeks to by at least two portfolio managers utilising a particular achieve this by allocating the Companys assets among investment strategy, ii not to invest more than 10% of the professionally selected hedge funds that are managed by Companys total assets in any one fund, and iii not to invest experienced portfolio managers employing, as a group, a more than 40% of the Companys total assets in any single variety of investment techniques and strategies.
strategy, although it may deviate from any such guidelines from time to time and or for sustained periods, subject always There are a number of portfolio managers implementing to the investment restrictions set out below.
alternative investment strategies whose services are not 13 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser by which time the value of such investments may have have complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for changed up or down.
Accordingly, the realisation value of their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant those investments will only be known once they are investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or redeemed.
Certain irredeemable or side-pocket investments other governing documents.
Such agreements and or investments that have suspended realisations may have a governing documents generally allow the portfolio managers value ascribed to them which is difficult to verify.
Accordingly, to change the kinds of investments they make and their the realisation value will only be known once they are realised.
techniques for making investments if they believe that such changes are appropriate in view of the then current or The Company started 2009 with a facility agreement with expected, market, business or economic conditions.
Northern Trust Guernsey Limited for up to the lower of 404 million and 30% of its net assets for short-term or temporary Although it does not currently do so, the Investment Adviser liquidity purposes as may be necessary to facilitate may allocate part of the Companys assets to portfolio investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or to managers affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided meet ongoing expenses, and to implement the Companys that such allocations are permitted by applicable law.
allocations, if any, will generally not, in the aggregate, exceed 10% of the Companys total net assets as of the date any Following the decrease in issued share capital resulting from such allocation is made although the Investment Adviser the Companys own Share buy backs and share redemptions may deviate from the foregoing policy under unusual with effect from 1 February 2009 the facility was reduced to circumstances.
The Company would pay such affiliated up to the lower of 220 million and 20% of its net assets, on portfolio managers management and performance fees on a rolling basis with three months notice.
This facility with terms no more favourable than the terms generally offered Northern Trust Guernsey Limited was replaced on to unaffiliated investors.
14 September 2009 by the issue of a secured variable funding note to Credit Suisse which provides for a maximum of 200 The hedge funds in which the Company invests are or may million or 25% of net assets whichever is the lower.
This be permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions secured variable funding note matures on 30 August 2010. in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, The Company has delivered an extension request to roll the futures, commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter secured variable funding note for a further 12 months with derivative instruments such as swaps, securities that lack effect from 30 August 2010. active public markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to financial instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
borrow money and to give guarantees, mortgage, hypothecate, pledge or charge all or part of its undertaking, It is the intention of the Company to be substantially fully property or assets and uncalled capital and to issue invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser may debentures and other securities whether outright or as use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments collateral security for any liability or obligation of the from time to time.
Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles do not specify a borrowing limit.
The valuations of the Companys investments as set out in its weekly and monthly NAV releases assume a present value of The Company does not have any long-term or fixed those investments based on estimates received from structural gearing and it is not intended that it should have, underlying funds or their managers or administrators and the introduction of any such gearing would be subject to the assuming no Settlement Obstructions rather than the amount prior approval of Shareholders.
The Company may be which those investments might realise were they to be indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee redeemed.
Such redemptions may be subject to 3, 6 or 12 funds or portfolio managers are themselves geared.
The months or even longer notice periods and some may be Investment Adviser expects such underlying gearing to be in incapable of redemption at the present time or in the future, the range 1.5:1 to 2.5:1.
14 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED NAV and performance information can also be found by Investment Restrictions eligible Shareholders on the Companys website page which The Company has adopted the following investment can be accessed via www.
However restrictions which include certain restrictions set out in the information on that website does not form part of, nor is it Listing Rules: incorporated by reference into this document and that Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company information is not available to certain overseas Shareholders.
will be invested in any one fund at the time the Shareholder web conferences also take place and are investment is made.
The Company will not make further investment s in any single investment strategy where, immediately Results following such further investment s, that investment The results for the year are set out in the Statement of strategy represents 60% or more of the total assets of Comprehensive Income.
The Directors do not propose a the Company.
dividend for the year nor was one declared in 2008.
The Company will not borrow more than 40% of its net assets for short term or temporary liquidity purposes, Significant Events including as may be necessary to facilitate investment In January 2009, at approximately the same time as the and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet Companys 150 million reverse auction redemption offer ongoing expenses and to implement the Companys closed, the rolling 12 month discount floor provisions were currency hedging strategy.
triggered, resulting in continuation votes for each of the The Company will avoid cross-financing between Companys Share classes being held on 8 April 2009 at a businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
Whilst the continuation resolutions The Company will avoid the operation of common of the US$, and A$ Share classes were not passed, the treasury functions as between the Company and Board was pleased to note the overwhelming support shown investee companies.
by the Shareholders, being by far the largest class of Any material change in the investment policies of the Shares in the Company.
Company will only be made with the approval of Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
In May 2009, as required under the Articles, the Board put Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company forward mandatory redemption offers to holders of the US$, in aggregate will be invested in other closed-ended and A$ Shares.
Acceptances of the mandatory redemption investment funds except for those which themselves offers were received for shares having a net asset value have stated investment policies to invest no more than totalling approximately US$123.7 million, being 7.8% of the 15% of their gross assets in other closed-ended estimated net assets of the Company at the time.
In view of investment fund.
the level of acceptances and of the Companys net cash Dividends will not normally be paid and in any event will position, the Board determined that the redemption monies for only be paid if they are covered by income received the redeemed Shares would be paid out in full by reference to from underlying investments.
the Companys final NAV as at 30 June 2009.
Payment of The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from such redemption monies was made on 7 August 2009. the realisation of investments is prohibited.
Following acceptances by A$ Shareholders of this mandatory In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, redemption offer and the subsequent receipt of conversion the Board will as soon as practicable make an notices from certain A$ Shareholders, the Directors announcement on a regulatory information service provider concluded that the conditions for the continued listing of the and subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
A$ Shares were no longer fulfilled.
Accordingly, the Directors exercised compulsory powers of redemption in respect of the Shareholder Information remaining issued A$ Shares as permitted by the Companys The Company announces its NAV on a monthly basis articles of association.
However, A$ Shareholders were first together with commentary on investment performance.
offered the opportunity to convert their A$ Shares into Shares Estimated NAVs are normally provided weekly.
Share price, 15 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS of any other class, with the result that 0.24% of the remaining the Share price discount and also to address the liquidity of issued A$ Shares converted into other classes, whilst the the Shares.
During the year the Company repurchased remaining 99.76% were redeemed at NAV as at 31 July 101,760,389 Shares, 10,626,910 Shares and 2009.
Payment of redemption monies in respect of 8,948,864 US$ Shares of which 49,720,384, 1,900,000 compulsorily redeemed A$ Shares was made on and 2,945,000 US$ Shares were held in treasury as at 8 September 2009.
The Board increased the frequency of Share class The Directors have a Treasury Share Policy whereby any conversions from quarterly to monthly, commencing with shares held in treasury for a period of 12 months are effect from the August 2009 NAV Calculation Date.
On 14 September 2009, the Company issued a limited Under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, the number of recourse variable funding note to Credit Suisse International shares of any class held as treasury shares must not at any of up to a maximum of 200 million or 25% of net assets time exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of whichever is the lower to replace the Companys existing that class at that time.
This resulted in certain share credit facility with Northern Trust Guernsey Limited, which repurchases being cancelled immediately.
was terminated on the same date.
Looking forward, however, the Board believes that In accordance with its statement of intention made at the investment performance is the key driver of the Companys time of the mandatory redemption offers, the Board put Share price and accordingly believes maintaining and forward a voluntary reverse auction redemption offer in enhancing the integrity of the Portfolio should be the January 2010 of an amount up to the equivalent of 10% of Companys principal focus.
Whilst the Companys Share the Companys NAV at that time.
The redemption price for buyback strategy prior to the mandatory redemption offers in Shares was determined by an auction process which 2009 had been a necessary part of its efforts to control the established a single discount level to NAV of 3.00% which Share price discount for each class, it required the was applied across all Share classes by reference to the realisation of investments from the Portfolio which, if Companys final NAV as at 31 December 2009.
As a result continued, could detract from the Companys investment of this offer, 61,915,828 Shares, 1,275,463 Shares and performance over the medium term.
Accordingly, whilst the 1,833,867 US$ Shares were redeemed.
Settlement of this Board intends to continue to follow an active share buyback offer was made on 24 February 2010. strategy, from mid 2009 the Board stated its intention to use these powers principally in circumstances where the Share The Companys rolling 12 month discount was again price discount for one or more classes of Shares became out triggered at the beginning of 2010 requiring continuation of line with discounts then prevailing in the Companys peer votes to be proposed for each class of Shares by way of group within the London listed funds of hedge funds sector.
Pursuant to the Companys articles of association, on 15 January 2010 a circular containing Management Arrangements notices of each of the class meetings was sent to The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital Shareholders.
On 12 February 2010, following the separate Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment class meetings the Board was pleased to announce that all management services.
Management fees as disclosed in three Share classes of the Company passed the continuation note 10 are based on an annual amount of 1.5% of the total resolutions with 100% of the votes cast at the and US$ assets of the Company plus a performance fee as outlined in class meetings being voted in favour of continuation and note 10.
The Management Engagement Committee has 98.89% of the Share class votes cast being voted in reviewed the performance of the Manager in managing the favour.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the terms of the investment management The first half of 2009 saw the continued implementation of agreement, in particular, the length of the notice period and Share buybacks by the Company designed both to reduce the fees payable to the Manager.
16 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that AIC the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms The Company is a member of the Association of Investment agreed is in the interest of Shareholders as a whole.
Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of During 2009 the Committee reviewed all key service provider Corporate Governance the AIC Code and has decided to performance and to support the review requested a selffollow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment certification from each provider.
During February 2009, the Financial Reporting Council confirmed that by following the Directors Interests AIC Guide investment company boards should fully meet The Directors, as stated on page 12, all served throughout their obligations in relation to the Combined Code.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in the Company other than shown below: The Company Secretary has undertaken a review of the corporate governance principles of the Board and 31 December 2009 Committees of the Board of the Company.
The Directors shares confirm compliance to the AIC Code without exception.
P P Walsh 25,000 T C Ash Nil Guernsey Regulatory Environment R M J Bowie 102,626 Robin Bowie Childrens Trust 14,700 There have been a number of changes to the regulatory J E Hallam 22,906 regime for Guernsey funds.
A number of provisions which P Sharman 62,280 were contained in the Control of Borrowing Bailiwick of Guernsey Ordinance, 1959 to 2003 COBO which Substantial Interests governed closed-ended funds have been consolidated into Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, Financial Services Authority handbook.
Such rules require 1987, as amended the POI Law which governed opensubstantial Shareholders to make relevant holding ended funds and licensees so that the POI Law now governs notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services both open-ended and closed-ended funds as well as Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this licensees.
information to the wider market.
Closed-ended funds are now Category 1 controlled Corporate Governance investments under the POI Law.
The changes have also Introduction codified in the POI Law a number of standard conditions and As an authorised, closed-ended investment company ongoing notification requirements imposed on the licensees registered in Guernsey, the Company is eligible for of funds which were listed on the funds COBO consent, but exemption from the requirements of the Combined Code the were not explicitly set out in COBO.
It is intended that the Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has changes will simplify Guernseys investment fund regime by however put in place a framework for corporate governance categorising all funds whether open-ended or closedwhich it believes is suitable for an investment company and ended as either registered schemes or authorised schemes.
which enables the Company to comply voluntarily with the main requirements of the Code, which sets out principles of The Directors have determined that the Company will good governance and a code of best practice.
There is no continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment current Corporate Governance Code for Investment Scheme.
Companies domiciled in Guernsey however, a Corporate Governance Guide is under construction by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission that is anticipated for release later in 2010.
17 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
All nonThe Board independent directors will retire and offer themselves for reThe Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, election at every Annual General Meeting.
In accordance all of whom are independent of the Investment Adviser and, with the listing rules Mr R Bowie is put forward for rewith the exception of Mr Bowie, are independent of the election annually.
The Directors retiring at the 2010 AGM are Manager and the Investment Consultant.
The Chairman, Mr Mr Bowie, Mr Hallam and Dr Sharman.
Walsh, met the independence criteria of rule A.
3.1 of the Combined Code upon appointment and has continued to Mr Walsh and Mr Ash recommend the re-election of Messrs meet this condition throughout his term of service.
Bowie and Hallam and Dr Sharman at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Hallam was appointed as Senior Independent Director Mr Walsh and Mr Ash believe that the individual Director skill during August 2007.
Being non-executive Directors, no set provides for a well balanced and experienced Board.
The Director has a service contract with the Company.
biographies of all the Directors may be found on page 12 of this annual report.
The Directors have a carefully considered The Articles of Association provide that one third of the and documented succession plan.
Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number The Board meets at least four times a year and between nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from these formal meetings there is regular contact with the office.
The Directors maintain a policy whereby each Manager, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The independent director will retire by rotation at least every Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial three years.
By adopting this policy the Directors recognise controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business that more than one third of their number retire each year.
of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Following a forthcoming review of the Articles of Association Directors.
The Directors also have access to the Company in due course the Directors will seek Shareholder approval to Secretary and, where necessary in the furtherance of their amend this clause.
The Directors will also propose that upon duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of reaching a nine year service such Director will retire and the Company.
offer themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
As the Company was formed in 2002 no Director has served for a The attendance record of Directors is set out below: nine year term.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 3 2 1 Meetings attended: P P Walsh 4 N A 2 N A T C Ash 3 3 2 1 R M J Bowie 4 N A N A N A J E Hallam 3 3 2 1 P Sharman 4 3 N A 1 During the year a further 25 ad-hoc meetings were held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative nature and these were attended by those directors available at the time.
18 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the The establishment, terms of reference, and reporting Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the arrangements for all subcommittees acting on behalf of Boards composition can be managed without undue the authority of the board: disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board, Risk assessment and management, including reporting, consideration will be given to the particular induction process monitoring, governance and control: and to ensure that it would be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon Other matters having a material effect on the Company.
any such appointment the new Director would be available to These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by meet Shareholders upon request.
the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an The Board considers agenda items laid out in the Notice and ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness Agenda which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of its actions.
of the Meeting as part of the Board Papers.
Directors may request any Agenda Items to be added that they consider Committees of the Board appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts nomination committee as, being comprised wholly of nonof interest prior to Board discussion.
executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
The Board considered it necessary to have strategy sessions to Remuneration Committee address the continuing market conditions and feedback from The remuneration committee the Committee was constituted Shareholders wishing to achieve certain liquidity.
The by resolution of the Board of Directors the Board on investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys latest 21 August 2007.
Prospectus, is reviewed regularly and the Investment Adviser advises on the adoption of appropriate strategies to employ The Committee is chaired by Mr Ash and the other members are under prevailing market conditions at any particular time within Mr Hallam and Dr Sharman.
the overall investment restrictions of the Company.
The key duty of the Committee is to determine, agree and The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of investment propose Board policy for the remuneration of the directors of the performance and associated matters such as asset allocation, Company.
The Committee meets at least once in every financial marketing investor relations, risk management, gearing, calendar year to review the remuneration policy, although such general administration and compliance, peer group information review may not result in changes.
The Committee may seek and industry issues.
independent professional services as required.
The Committee has no executive powers with regard to its findings and The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure recommendations.
The chairman of the Committee or a and independence of each Director on an annual basis, and member thereof will always be available to answer questions believes that the mix of skills, experience and length of service about the work of the Committee at the annual general meeting are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
Directors Duties and Responsibilities Remuneration Policy The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which The Committee has received independent professional research establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major in respect of their roles and responsibilities.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure: Strategic matters and financial reporting: Oversight of management and personnel matters: 19 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS After careful consideration the Committee determined that: Company and the Manager, the investment advisory agreement between the Company, the Manager and the All Directors of the Company are Non-Executive and as such Investment Adviser, and the Investment Consultant agreement there are: agreement between the Company, the Manager and the no service contracts with the Company: Investment Consultant and the Company secretarial agreement no long-term incentive schemes: with the Secretary.
The Committee also reviews the no options or similar performance incentives.
performance of all other key service providers including the Custodian, Designated Manager and Corporate Broker.
The Directors Remuneration: shall reflect the responsibility, experience, time All key service providers submitted a performance commitment and position on the Board: self-certification to the Committee as part of the 2009 review.
the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee shall be remunerated in excess of The Committee is also charged with ensuring that service the remaining board members to reflect their increased providers are not operating conflicts of interest in accordance roles of responsibility and accountability: with the Authorised Closed Ended Investment Schemes Rules fees shall be paid quarterly in arrears: 2008 as issued by the Guernsey Financial Services remuneration for additional work shall be carefully Commission.
considered and become due and payable on an ad-hoc basis: and The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr Ash independent professional consultancy shall be undertaken Chairman, Mr Walsh and Mr Hallam.
at least every three years.
Audit Committee Remuneration 2009 An Audit Committee has been established consisting of The Directors Remuneration has not increased since 2006.
Mr Hallam Chairman, Mr Ash and Dr Sharman.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys The Directors Remuneration on an annual basis: internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and Mr P Walsh, Chairman, 30,000: interim report, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as Mr J Hallam, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services Audit Committee 22,000: provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information Mr T Ash and Dr P Sharman, 20,000: and from the Company Secretary and the compliance department Mr R Bowie has waived his right to his annual fee of 20,000. of the Administrator and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to review the At the beginning of 2009, the Manager proposed that the audit timetable, annual and interim accounts and other risk Directors consider accepting an additional fee for work management and governance matters.
performed during 2008 in respect of the financial market difficulties.
The Chairman recommended that such additional The Committee also considers whether the appointment of an remuneration be declined and this was unanimously agreed by internal audit function is required.
At the end of 2009 following successful Shareholder corporate actions the Directors agreed to receive an ad-hoc The terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available payment of 15,000 for the Chairman and 10,000 for each of upon request to the Company Secretary.
Messrs Hallam, Ash and Sharman.
Internal Controls Management Engagement Committee The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms of of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board reference and duties, has been established to review annually confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, the terms of the management agreement between the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the 20 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Company.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of Corporate Responsibility the Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, The Company is not an operating company.
It considers the including financial, operational, compliance and risk ongoing concerns of investors by open and regular dialogue management.
with and through the appointed Manager, Investment Consultant and the Companys Broker.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of The Company makes reference to the Corporate internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the Responsibility Statement of Aurora Investment Management process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks LLC as Investment Adviser.
affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory changes and takes appropriate action.
The Company is As there is a delegation of daily operational activity as advised that carbon disclosure is set to become mandatory described below, the Audit Committee and Board have by April 2012.
As previously referred, all daily operations are determined that there is no requirement for a direct internal delegated.
The Company itself does not maintain premises, audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to or have any employees.
meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Going Concern In November 2009, the Board announced its expectation that Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to the Companys 12 month discount floor provision would be manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve triggered again at the beginning of 2010, requiring, in business objectives and by their nature can only provide accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement separate continuation votes to be proposed for each class of and loss.
Shares by way of ordinary Class resolution.
On 12 February 2010, following the separate class meetings of the The Board has delegated the management of the Companys Shareholders the Board was delighted to announce that all investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and three Share classes of the Company passed the continuation the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial resolutions.
Details of the results are contained on page 16 in functions including the independent calculation of the the Directors Report.
Following the passing of each Companys NAV and the production of the Annual Report and continuation resolution and after making enquiries and given Financial Statements which are independently audited.
the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors Whilst the Board delegates responsibility, and accountability are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the for the functions it delegates and is responsible for the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, systems of internal control.
Formal contractual agreements and, after due consideration, the Directors consider that the have been put in place between the Company, these Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
functions it retains and providers of these services.
On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each Relations with shareholders quarterly board meeting from the Administrator, Custodian, The Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys Manager, Investment Adviser, the Investment Consultant and Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional the Company Secretary.
Shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to As part of the overall risk management process, at each respond to Shareholders questions at the Annual General quarterly meeting the Directors receive, consider and assess a Meeting.
The Company now offers Investorweb conferences risk matrix detailing all key risks that are graded by probability with the Investment Adviser.
Two such conferences took place and impact.
To provide further transparency, the Directors agreed portfolio and liquidity enhancements to the published 21 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2009 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS monthly newsletter that may be found by eligible Disclosure of information to auditors Shareholders on the Companys website page which can be So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant accessed via www.
audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have The Board monitors the trading activity and Shareholder profile taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained information and to establish that the Companys auditor is by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which aware of that information.
each class of Shares is traded in the market against the NAV per Share when compared to the discounts premiums Auditors experienced by the Companys peer group.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year General Meeting.
and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Additionally, the Interim Management Statements and the current information provided to eligible Shareholders on an Peter P Walsh John E Hallam ongoing basis through the Companys website page which Director Director can be accessed via www.
com and 16 April 2010 newsletter assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The Registrar monitors the voting of the Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
