The Investment Process Aberdeens Philosophy and Style Risk Controls We Aberdeen believe that markets are not always efficient.
We seek to minimise risk by our in-depth research.
We do We believe that superior investment returns are therefore not view divergence from a benchmark as risk we view attainable by identifying good companies cheaply, defined in investment in poorly run expensive companies that we do terms of the fundamentals, that in our opinion drive share not understand as risk.
In fact where risk parameters are prices over the long-term.
We undertake substantial due expressed in benchmark relative terms, asset including diligence before initiating any investment including company sector allocation constitutes a significant constraint on visits in order to assure ourselves of the quality of the stock selection.
Hence diversification of stocks provides our prospective investment.
We are careful not to pay too high a main control.
price when making the investment.
Subsequent to that investment we keep in close touch with the company, aiming Aberdeens performance and investment risk unit to meet management at least twice a year.
Given our longindependently monitors portfolio positions, and reports term fundamental investment philosophy, one would not monthly.
As well as attributing performance it also produces expect much change in the companies in which we invest.
statistical analysis, which is used by the Manager primarily to We do, however, take opportunities offered to us by what we check the portfolio is behaving as expected, not as a see as anomalous price movements within stockmarkets to predictive tool.
either top up or top slice positions, which accounts for the bulk of the activity within the portfolio during the year under review.
Regional Teams Company visit note Risk controls Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio universe construction Pass or fail?
Potential revisit Monitor Watchlist Review Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 17
