Marketing Strategy Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC contributes to Shareholder services the marketing programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and Limited AAM on behalf of a number of investment trusts investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant under its management.
Under this agreement the Companys literature on request and have queries answered contribution is matched by AAM.
The Marketing Programme is under the reviewed annually.
direction of AAMs Head of Investor Relations for Investment Trusts, who has considerable experience in the marketing and The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively communications of investment products.
He is supported by with existing shareholders and attract new shareholders, thus a team of marketing professionals.
improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also Internet shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys The Company has its own dedicated website at: investment merits through packaged products, whether www.
This allows web users singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can to access information on the Companys share price be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
These aims can be met in several ways: The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the Investor relations programme Marketing Programme.
The Head of Investor Relations for AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and Investment Trusts reports to the Board and provides a prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
month institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager performance analysis.
or performance, please telephone AAMs Investor Services Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users Group schemes may e-mail us at inv.
com or write to us at Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western The Aberdeen Group administers several savings schemes House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP including the Share Plan, ISA and the Childrens Plan.
These schemes allow investment at lower costs and have proved popular with private investors.
Direct response advertising AAM advertise the packaged product availability of the Company in the specialist financial press.
Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
Public relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 47 How to Invest in Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Direct current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of Investors can buy and sell shares in Dunedin Income Growth capital gains tax.
Investment Trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other professional ISA Transfer adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through Investors can choose to transfer previous tax year Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens investments to Aberdeen which can be invested in Dunedin Investment Trust Share Plan, Investment Trust ISA or ISA Income Growth Investment Trust PLC while retaining their transfer.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan for Investment Trust Pension Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of The Investment Trust Pension enables existing investors to investment companies under its management including save for retirement by investing in Dunedin Income Growth Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC.
Anyone can Investment Trust PLC.
The Investment Trust Pension offers a invest in the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents Personal Pension Plan.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread which can, on some occasions, Note be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the 150 per trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per future.
Stockmarket and currency movements may cause the month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty value of shares and the income from them to fall as well as currently 0.5% on entry.
There rise and investors may not get back the amount they is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the originally invested.
Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts common with other schemes of this type, all investments are purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference held in nominee accounts between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC can be investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax purchased.
There are no dealing charges on the initial treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bidoffer spread which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, while regular Trust Information savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply If investors would like details of Dunedin Income Growth pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
Investment Trust PLC or information on the Childrens Plan, Selling costs are 10 VAT.
There is no restriction on how Share Plan, ISA or Pension please telephone 0500 00 00 40 long an investor need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can or write to Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP or at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all e-mail at inv.
Details are also investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have full available on www.
voting and other rights of share ownership.
Literature Request Service Stocks and Shares ISA For literature and application forms for the Managers An investment of up to 7,200 in Dunedin Income Growth investment trust products, please contact: Investment Trust PLC can be made in the tax year Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 2009 2010.
com There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Keeping You Informed investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a The Companys share price appears under the heading significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Investment Companies in the Financial Times, and other Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 national newspapers.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, 48 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC For internet users, detailed data on Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
Contact Us For information on Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC and for any administrative queries relating to the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Block C, Western House Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 For administrative queries relating to an existing shareholding in the Pension Plan, please contact Edinburgh Pension Centre Capita SIP Services 141 Castle Street Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800 13 70 79 Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which relates to a certificated holding, please contact the Registrar, as follows: Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2441 Fax: 0871 342 2100 Shareview Enquiry Line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing: 0871 384 2255 Calls to the above Equiniti numbers will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT Landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 49
