Corporate Summary The Directors are responsible for determining the investment the Chief Investment Officer ensuring consistency.
Further policy and the investment objective of the Company, subject information on the investment process can be found on page to appropriate shareholder approval.
Investment Objective Investment Risk To achieve growth of income and capital from a portfolio Investment risk within the portfolio is managed in three invested predominantly in companies listed or quoted in the ways: United Kingdom.
Adherence to the Investment Process described above in order to minimise investments in poor quality companies and or overpaying.
Investment Policy Diversification of investment - seeking to invest in a wide The Company pursues a policy of investing in high quality variety of companies with strong balance sheets and the companies with strong income potential, while at the same earnings power to pay increasing dividends.
In addition time providing an above-average portfolio yield.
It maintains investments are made in a diversified portfolio of sectors in a diversified portfolio consisting, substantially, of equity or order to reduce the risk of a single large exposure.
The equity-related securities, and it can invest in other financial Manager believes that diversification should be looked at in instruments.
Whilst the Company is invested predominantly absolute terms rather than relative to a benchmark.
At the in the United Kingdom it has the freedom to invest year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 63 holdings.
A description of the Companys holdings and sector analysis are shown on pages 12 to 15.
It is the policy of the Company to invest no more than 15% The Board has laid down guidelines on maximum holdings of its gross assets in other listed investment companies.
and exposures in the portfolio at the time of acquisition.
These can only be over-ridden with Board approval.
They The Company complies with section 842 of the Income and include the following: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and does not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in any one company.
a Not more than 10% of gross assets to be invested in any single stock: Investment Process b Top five holdings should not account for more than 40% Day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been of gross assets: delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The Manager c Holdings other than equities and cash or cash believes that, over the long-term, share prices reflect the equivalents should not exceed 10% of gross assets.
underlying business fundamentals of companies and hence investments are made based on research undertaken on Reference to other risks associated with the Company are individual companies.
This is known as a bottom up included within the Business Review in the Directors Report investment process.
This process involves a disciplined and detailed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
evaluation of potential investments through meeting investee companies.
New investments are not made without Gearing the Manager having first met the management of the The Board is responsible for determining the gearing strategy investee company, undertaken further analysis and written for the Company.
Gearing is used selectively to leverage the detailed notes to outline the underlying investment merits.
A Companys portfolio in order to enhance returns where and companys value is estimated in two stages, quality then to the extent considered appropriate.
Quality is defined by reference to management, decisions are made by the Manager within the remit set by business focus, balance sheet and corporate governance.
Borrowings, other than the debenture stock Price is assessed relative to key financial ratios and business details of which are included in the Capital Structure prospects.
overleaf, are short term and particular care is taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility The Managers portfolios are generally run conservatively, of investment policy.
The Board monitors gearing with debt with an emphasis on traditional buy-and-hold, topmeasured both at par and market value and has agreed slicing topping up being preferred to outright trading and this various gearing restrictions which have been incorporated in approach results in low turnover within portfolios.
guidelines for the Manager or in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Portfolios are managed by the Manager on a team basis, with individual investment managers carrying out their own research and analysis.
All ideas are shared via formal committees and common databases, with desk heads and Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 7 Corporate Summary continued These gearing restrictions are set out below: statements.
The terms and conditions of the Managers appointment, including an evaluation of performance and a Gearing should not exceed 30% with debt at market fees, are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Board's conclusions regarding the continued appointment of the Manager are dealt with in detail on page 24, under b Per the Articles of Association, total amounts borrowed Corporate Governance.
shall not at any time exceed the aggregate amount of the issued and paid up share capital and reserves as per The Company also pays the Manager for the provision of the last published balance sheet of the Company.
In the year under review the Company paid 339,000 2008 - 339,000 to the Manager to support c Per the Articles of Association, the total amount to be its efforts in this regard.
borrowed for temporary purposes shall not exceed 10% of the issued paid up capital and reserves of the Share Dealing ISA Status Company as appearing in the last published balance Shares in Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC can sheet of the Company.
be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
Shares can also be bought through the Investment Trust Share Plan Benchmark and the Investment Trust ISA and are fully qualifying for The Companys performance is compared with the FTSE Allinclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 48.
This is measured on a net asset value total return basis over the long-term.
AIC Membership The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Manager Companies AIC.
Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Senior Manager, Stewart Methven.
co. uk The website offers investors comprehensive information on Equity Shareholders Funds the Company, including easy ways to invest.
236.4 million at 31 January 2009 with debt at market value.
241.9 million at 31 January 2009 with debt valued at par.
Features of the Companys website are: Latest prices NAV and share price and discount information each day Market Capitalisation Daily performance figures and charts from Fundamental 212.9 million at 31 January 2009.
Data Monthly fact sheet from the Manager reporting on the Capital Structure portfolio and the Companys performance 150,706,187 Ordinary shares of 25p each at 31 January 2009 Online copies of the annual and interim reports 153,677,935 including treasury shares.
Each ordinary How to invest in the Manager's ISA or Share Plan products shareholder is entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, online on a poll, to one vote for every share held.
The Company has A free email subscription facility for market and Manager long-term borrowings of 28.6 million 7 % Debenture updates.
Stock 2019 and a 30 million 1 year bank facility 12 million drawn down as at 31 January 2009 reduced to 2 million after the year end.
Management Arrangements The investment management fee for the year ended 31 January 2009 was calculated at 0.45% on the first 225 million, 0.35% on the next 200 million and 0.25% on amounts over 425 million per annum of the net assets of the Company calculated with debt at par and excluding commonly managed funds net assets.
The fee for the year ended 31 January 2009 amounted to 0.42% of average monthly net assets.
The Investment Management Agreement is currently terminable on not less than six months notice.
Details of the fee can be found in note 3 to the financial 8 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
