Directors Report Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she herein after Business Review referred to as he is aware, there is no relevant audit The Board has prepared this Business Review in accordance information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as 2006.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Corporate Summary on page 7, the Chairmans Statement on audit information and to establish that the Companys page 5 and the Managers Review on page 9.
This includes a auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there review of the business of the Company and its principal are no important events since the year end.
activities, likely future developments of the business, recommended dividend and details of acquisition of its own The current Directors, as shown in the table on the page shares.
The Board has adopted a matrix of the key risks that opposite, were the only Directors who served during the year.
Like most other companies, the present economic conditions represent the greatest challenge, and The Company makes no political donations or expenditures risk, to the Company.
Beyond this the major risks associated or donations for charitable purposes and, in common with with the Company are detailed in note 19 to the Financial most investment trusts, has no employees.
Other risks include: Performance risk: A fall in the market value of the Share Capital Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The NAV performance relative to the During the year the Company purchased 1,026,007 Ordinary Index and the underlying stock weightings in the portfolio shares of 25p each representing 0.7% of the issued share against the Index weightings are monitored closely by the capital as at 31 January 2009 which are being held in Board.
The total cost of these shares was 2.2 million.
Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at Two million treasury shares were cancelled during the year.
a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Company Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, operates a share buyback programme which is reviewed on no share repurchases have taken place.
Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex Dividends regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 6.5p 2008 risks.
Breaches of regulations, such as Section 842 of the 6.5p per share be paid on 22 May 2009 to shareholders on Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, the UKLA Listing the register at the close of business on 24 April 2009, making Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a number of a total of 10.25p 2008 10.0p per share for the year ended detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The ex-dividend date is 22 April 2009.
A Committee monitors compliance with regulations by resolution in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at reviewing internal control reports from the Manager.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators Status At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of The Company carries on business as an investment trust for performance measures to assess the Companys success in the purpose of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 achieving its objectives.
Below are the main key and has been approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs performance indicators KPIs which have been identified by for the period ended 31 January 2008 although approval for the Board for determining the progress of the Company: that year would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
Year ended 31 January 2009 The Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to Net asset value 156.89p valuing debt at market value enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company is FTSE All-Share Index 2078.92 an investment company, within the terms of Section 833 of Discount 5.2% valuing debt at market value the Companies Act 2006.
Share price 141.25p Total expense ratio 0.70% Directors Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 18 to 19.
In addition the Directors also consider net asset value total return, share price total return, dividend levels and revenue In accordance with the Articles of Association, Peter Wolton return per Ordinary share when reviewing KPIs.
These are all retires from the Board by rotation and will be proposed for shown on page 2 of the report.
re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the terms of the Combined Code, Directors may serve longer than 9 20 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC years subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, Jean contract positions and regularly reviews actual exposures, Matterson will retire at the Annual General Meeting and cash flow projections and compliance with banking annually thereafter and, being eligible, will offer herself for covenants.
The Company will open renewal negotiations re-election.
The Board has reviewed the skills and experience with its bankers in due course but at this stage has not of Ms Matterson and Mr Wolton and has no hesitation in sought any commitment that the floating rate facility will be recommending to shareholders their re-election at the renewed.
If acceptable terms are available from the existing Annual General Meeting.
bankers or any alternative the Company would expect to continue to have a facility: if, however, these are not The Directors holdings in the Companys shares are shown in forthcoming any outstanding amount will be repaid through the table below.
The Companys Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue its Nature of Ordinary shares operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, interest held at 31 January they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 2009 2008 the accounts.
John Carson Beneficial 40,000 40,000 Auditors Rory Macnamara Beneficial 4,000 4,000 Jean Matterson Beneficial 25,000 25,000 Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as John Scott Beneficial 23,073 22,931 auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix Peter Wolton Beneficial 4,000 4,000 their remuneration.
The Directors have reviewed the level of non audit services provided by the auditors during the year together with the auditors procedures in connection with The above interests were unchanged as at the date of this the provision of such services and remain satisfied that report.
KPMG Audit Plcs objectivity and independence is being safeguarded.
No contract or arrangement existed during the year in which any of the Directors was materially interested.
Directors do Substantial Share Interests not have service contracts with the Company.
At 31 March 2009, the beneficial interests in the Ordinary Directors Liability Insurance share capital had been notified to the Company as shown below.
The Company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of No of the Company.
Each Director of the Company shall be entitled Ordinary Holder to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company to the % shares extent permitted by law against all costs, charges, losses, Aberdeen Investment Trust 33,128,580 22.0 expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the actual or Savings Plans purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or Legal & General Investment 5,988,503 3.97 the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or Management Ltd otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, D C Thomson & Co Ltd 5,900,000 3.91 powers or office.
These rights are included in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Non-beneficial interest Payments Policy Annual General Meeting Special Business The Companys payments policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with the stated terms.
In At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 May 2009, certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to resolutions will be proposed concerning the following special business taking place and it is the Companys policy to abide business: by those terms.
i Allotment of Shares Resolution 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution Going Concern to confer an authority on the Directors, in substitution The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares for any existing authority, to allot up to 45,933,813 in companies listed on the London Stock Exchange and in unissued Ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
amount of 11,483,453 being 30.5% of the current The Board has set limits for borrowing and derivative issued Ordinary share capital, excluding treasury shares, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report continued and within institutional guidelines in accordance with treasury shares would only be sold for cash at a price Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
The authority not less than the net asset value per share calculated conferred by this resolution will expire at the Annual after the deduction of prior charges at market value.
General Meeting to be held in 2010 unless previously Treasury shares are explained in more detail under the revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general heading Market Purchase of the Companys own meeting.
As at 31 March 2009, the Company held 2,971,748 iii Market Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary Shares treasury shares which represented 2.0% of the issued Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution to share capital excluding treasury shares.
authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own Ordinary shares.
The Company may do either of the The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be following things in respect of its own Ordinary shares granted by resolution 8 is necessary to retain flexibility, which it buys back and does not immediately cancel but, although they do not at the present time have any instead, holds in treasury: intention of exercising such authority.
a sell such shares for cash or its equivalent under the ii Limited Disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions Treasury Shares Regulations : or Resolution 9 will be proposed as a special resolution and b ultimately, cancel the shares.
seeks to give the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital and to sell Ordinary shares held in The Directors may use the Treasury Shares Regulations treasury see below for cash up to a maximum in either of the ways noted above and intend to take aggregate nominal amount of 11,483,453 in aggregate advantage of this flexibility as they deem appropriate.
without first being required to offer such shares to For example, treasury shares may be resold quickly and existing shareholders but this authority is limited to: cost effectively.
Treasury shares also enhance the Directors ability to manage the Companys capital base.
a the allotment of Ordinary shares and sale of treasury shares avoiding legal or practical problems No dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no should there be an offer of shares or other securities voting rights attach to them.
to shareholders pro rata in the future: and b the allotment and sale of up to 7,535,309 Ordinary The maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares shares and treasury shares for cash, other than to which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall existing shareholders on a pro rata basis, be 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the representing approximately 5% of the issued Company as at the date of the passing of the resolution Ordinary share capital of the Company at the date approximately 22.6 million Ordinary shares.
The of this Directors Report.
minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price This power will last until the conclusion of the Annual exclusive of expenses which may be paid for the shares General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010 shall be the higher of a 5% above the average of the unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the middle market quotations of the Ordinary shares as Company in general meeting.
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days Under the Treasury Shares Regulations the Company immediately preceding the date of purchase: and b the may buy back and hold shares in treasury and then sell higher of the price of the last independent trade and the them at a later date for cash rather than cancelling highest current independent bid on the main market for them.
The Treasury Shares Regulations require such the Ordinary shares.
sales to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
exercise would result in an increase in net asset value Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to per Ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and if allot unissued Ordinary share capital on a non preit were in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
emptive basis, resolution 9 will also give the Directors power to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury on a non This authority will last until the conclusion of the pre-emptive basis, subject always in both cases to the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in limitations noted above.
Pursuant to this power, 2010 or for 18 months after the date of passing this Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash and resolution, whichever is earlier unless previously 22 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general The Board considers the above resolutions to be in the best meeting.
interests of the Company and its members as a whole and are most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board iv Amendment to Articles of Association unanimously recommends that shareholders should vote in Adoption of new Articles of Association with effect from favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual the date of the Annual General Meeting General Meeting, as they intend to do in respect of their own There have been a number of legislative, regulatory and beneficial shareholdings, amounting to 96,073 Ordinary best practice developments affecting public companies shares.
since the Company's Articles of Association were last updated, including the enactment of the Companies Act Additional Information 2006 which has come into force in stages.
"The Board considers it prudent to replace the Company's existing Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the Articles of Association with new articles which take following provides the additional information required to be account of those developments to date the ""New disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: Articles""."
Your Board is proposing resolution 11 as a special resolution at the Annual General Meeting to There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in adopt the New Articles.
the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading A summary of the material changes proposed to be law.
brought about by the adoption of the New Articles is set out in Part I of the Appendix to the Annual General The Company is not aware of any agreements between Meeting notice.
Other changes, which are of a minor, shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer technical or clarifying nature, have not been separately of securities and or voting rights.
noted in Part I of the Appendix.
The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out Amendments to the New Articles with effect from 1 in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 24 to October 2009 26.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be Full implementation of the Companies Act 2006 is amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of scheduled for 1 October 2009 and to take account of shareholders.
certain additional provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which will come into force on that date resolution 12 The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to will also be proposed as a special resolution.
Resolution which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a 12 seeks approval to adopt an updated set of Articles of change of control of the Company following a takeover.
"Association with effect from 1 October 2009 and if adopted at the Annual General Meeting, the New Other than the Investment Management Agreement with the Articles will automatically be amended on 1 October Manager, further details of which are set out on page 8, the 2009 in accordance with that resolution 12 the Company is not aware of any contractual or other ""Amended New Articles""."
agreements which are essential to its business which ought to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
The Amended New Articles will be the same as the New Articles subject only to the proposed amendments that By order of the Board are summarised in Part II of the Appendix to the Annual Aberdeen Asset Management PLC General Meeting notice.
Secretary Edinburgh A copy of the New Articles and the Amended New 31 March 2009 Articles will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the Managers London office, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 23
