Managers Review To say that the year ending January 2009 has been a Although we entered the year with an underweight in Banks tumultuous year for investors would be an understatement.
going into the crisis, the weak capital performance of Royal The period started in a relatively benign fashion as reductions Bank of Scotland and Lloyds TSB offset this position.
Royal in interest rates helped calm fears about the economic Banks problems have been well documented, with the ill fallout from the credit crunch, while commodity prices timed purchase of ABN AMRO resulting in the bank requiring remained at high levels.
As events unfolded, it became government support.
The performance of the Financial sector apparent that the economic malaise would not be so easily was made worse by our holding a larger weight in the remedied, with economic data deteriorating throughout the portfolio in the Life Assurance sector.
However, it was not until the collapse of underperformed, where Aviva in particular suffered over Lehmans in September that the degree of stress within the concerns about solvency.
However, we maintained our high financial system became evident.
Liquidity all but weighting in that sector and their full year results did go evaporated, banks around the globe required capital some way to alleviating solvency concerns.
We offset some injections and, in more extreme cases, full state bail-outs and of this weakness through the holding in Provident Financial equity markets collapsed.
DIGITs NAV measured with debt which has benefited from a tightening of lending criteria by priced at market value, fell by 34.7% in total return terms high street and mainstream lenders.
compared to a decline in the FTSE All-Share Index of 27.8% in total return terms.
As highlighted below, we chose to exit a number of stocks during the year whose poor performance had impacted upon Economic data has continued to deteriorate throughout the the portfolio.
In addition to Royal Bank, the four most period, with fourth quarter GDP confirming that the UK notable were Premier Foods, Wolseley, Kesa and Barratt economy was in recession.
This had been replicated, to Developments.
Combined, these five stocks represented differing degrees, with no region immune.
The Bank of approximately 3% of relative underperformance versus the England entered the year adopting a wait and see approach, benchmark.
their actions being restricted by inflation remaining above the targeted range.
In the first half of the year their While discussing individual situations that had a particular Monetary Policy Committee limited itself to two 25 basis negative impact upon performance we should discuss BT.
point cuts in interest rates.
Once the gravity of the financial When we construct the portfolio, each holding has a specific crisis became clear, they announced a further 350 basis role to play to ensure proper diversification.
BT represented a points of cuts, taking Bank Rate to 0.5% at the time of stable, albeit mature, cash generative utility-like domestic writing.
Despite this, the effective closure of the wholesale business, coupled with what appeared to be a growing finance markets has left LIBOR stubbornly above base rates, international Global Services business.
As such, it represented preventing the cuts from being passed on in full to UK to us a defensive company with some possibility to eke out consumers and businesses.
returns above those allowed by the regulator.
While falling equity markets have rekindled fears about growing pension This squeeze in liquidity has had a profound impact on high fund deficits and impacted shorter term sentiment, the real street sales with monthly like-for-like sales falling most damage to the stock occurred when the new Chief Executive months and, despite a temporary cut to the VAT rate, there made the market aware that the contracts entered into in was a number of very high profile casualties, alongside a slew the Global Service division would not be as cash flow positive of other names filing for administration.
Likewise, the as the board had previously been led to believe, and that manufacturing sector witnessed significant contraction as they would not generate an economic profit.
The correct companies focussed on preventing the build up of stock measures have been undertaken by the new management within supply chains.
So far, the weakness of sterling has not team, in focusing on cash flow, although the longer-term provided relief.
All of this has contributed to unemployment nature of the contracts means that this malaise will not be in the UK rising to circa two million at the end of December.
We have subsequently reduced the holding.
Performance Turning to the performance of the Company, in total return In times of underperformance there is always a focus on terms the NAV fell by 34.7%, versus a fall in the benchmark why?
but within the portfolio there have also been distinct of 27.8%.
The impact of the Companys gearing can be seen areas of better relative performance.
The area which has from the fact that gross assets fell less, by 30.0%, although benefited the portfolio most through the year has been our this still showed an underperformance versus the benchmark.
low exposure to the mining stocks.
Here, we believed that the increase in commodity prices was fuelled by speculation Whilst we manage the portfolio on an absolute basis in stock and we were therefore unwilling to commit too much capital weights, for comparing our performance in relation to the to the sector.
Indeed, as the economic slowdown and benchmark we will refer to sector positions in aggregate.
tightening of the availability of credit has reduced the Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 9 Managers Review continued demand for and price of underlying commodities, the mining in the market, and we believe it will emerge in a stronger stocks have declined sharply in value.
We believe that, for position than many of its peers.
the longer-term investor, value has started to emerge in the higher quality names within the sector.
In respect of Kesa, the investment theme was investing in a soundly financed business exposed to the European consumer rather than the UK.
As trading conditions The other areas that performed well for the portfolio in the deteriorated during 2008, profitability came under significant year were Aerospace & Defence and Pharmaceuticals.
This is pressure and the stock was sold as it came apparent that this unsurprising under the circumstances as investors sought would reduce scope for its dividend paying capacity.
safe havens in traditional defensive sectors but we already had an overweight through Cobham and AstraZeneca in the With dividend strength particularly important, we have respective sectors.
exited TT Group, Wolseley and BBA, all of whom should survive the cycle but whose priority is likely to be repaying Portfolio Activity debt before rewarding shareholders.
As the Chairman has reported, the rapid deterioration within the global economy has resulted in us carrying out a detailed There was also an opportunity to take capital from strong review of all the stocks held in the portfolio, to ensure that performers and whilst it seems hard to believe now, we the investment proposition remains valid in what is likely to benefited from the takeovers of Scottish & Newcastle and be a very challenging landscape for some time to come.
The TDG earlier in the year.
HMV had also held up well, especially primary theme has been on balance sheet strength, to ensure given the outlook for the UK high street, so we took the these companies are in a position to endure the current decision to sell the holding.
In addition, the likelihood of a prolonged period of subpar growth for the UK has increased, given the pressures to The last theme surrounding sales was a desire to reduce unwind the level of Government indebtedness in coming exposure to UK financials.
We exited Lloyds TSB upon the years.
As a result, a secondary theme has been investing in announcement of the merger with HBOS.
We were businesses with strong international franchises and portfolio concerned that the latters exposure to the wholesale market turnover, in terms of names introduced and exited, has run at would destabilise the solid management of Lloyds.
We also a higher level than in previous years.
exited Royal Bank of Scotland following concerns that multiple rescues would have to come from the UK Balance sheet strength will also be an important factor in government, leaving equity holders with nothing.
determining dividend payout capacity, as those over Unfortunately, this was not before we subscribed to their indebted companies are likely to seek additional capital and first rights issue: at the time we believed that it was conserve cash through reducing and cancelling payouts.
With sufficient to recapitalise the bank but this position changed this in mind, we exited some of our more highly-geared dramatically with the fide-gearing that occurred post medium sized holdings, including Johnston Press and the Lehmans.
We did participate in the Barclays recapitalisation, above-mentioned Premier Foods.
Whilst, in the current buying both the convertibles and preference shares.
Both of environment, the outlook for both businesses is widely these securities have a yield that is attractive to the portfolio divergent, Johnston Press is much more cyclical, with its and allow us future participation in a globally diverse bank exposure to advertising trends.
Premier Foods should be with an attractive capital structure.
more stable, selling branded staples.
Both businesses have high levels of gearing introduced through acquisitions in Going forward, we believe we have a solid portfolio of better times.
We have exited these holdings because we companies which have the financial strength to endure the believe that they will require significant additional capital.
current cycle, even if it does prove to be the worst in 100 Likewise, Barratt Developments was sold, again on the back years.
However, we are cognisant that circumstances change of a heavily geared balance sheet driven by the acquisition of so will continue to monitor holdings to ensure that the Wilson Bowden.
We did, however, replace this with stocks within the portfolio are the ones that will emerge Persimmon who have a stronger balance sheet and stand to from the current malaise in a stronger competitive position benefit from the structural undersupply in the UK housing and are able to exploit weaknesses in their traditional market.
While this holding is perhaps counterintuitive, it competition.
We believe these building blocks will form the stems from our belief that, in the medium term, net new platform for sound portfolio performance over the coming household formation combined with rates of obsolescence in years.
the housing stock will eventually stabilise the market in volume terms.
Persimmon is experienced in bringing land Rights issues are becoming increasingly common and over through tight planning regimes and also benefits from a the course of the year, as well as Royal Bank of Scotland, we substantial land bank from which to exploit any stabilisation have supported Imperial Tobacco, Centrica and Standard 10 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Chartered.
These have sought to strengthen their balance sheets for different purposes.
In the case of Imperial Tobacco, to fund the acquisition of Altadis: for Centrica for the potential purchase of assets of British Energy: and for Standard Chartered, to bring its Tier 1 ratio in line with the strongest of its peers.
On concerns about global aviation, Rolls Royce has been weak over the year and we have seized on the opportunity to invest in it.
Whilst we do expect the global slowdown to impact hours flown, Rolls Royces order book is more exposed to the stronger airlines and towards more fuel efficient engines.
In the meantime, they have a long book of higher margin service contracts which will help insulate profitability and cash flow.
With unemployment rising, we introduced a new holding in BPP, a professional training firm.
In the past this has proven to be counter cyclical as people seek to improve their skills in a tight employment market.
Whilst it is too early to say if this is indeed the case this time round, initial signs are encouraging.
We have a limited exposure to securities not listed in the UK and during the year we added to our European holdings by purchasing Linde, an industrials gas business.
They have exposure to the healthcare market and contracted volumes which should prove defensive in the current environment.
Overall, we believe the portfolio has strength in its diversification of strong businesses with attractive positions in their end markets.
While earnings and dividends will be under considerable pressure this year, the market has moved a long way to discount some of these concerns, and we believe the portfolio is in robust shape to exploit the recovery when it eventually occurs.
We continue to assess opportunities that fit with both aspects of the strategy and will seek to utilise our capital to the best available opportunities whilst still seeking to invest in businesses for which we see prospects for long-term dividend growth.
Stewart Methven Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 31 March 2009 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 11
