Managers Review Overview have weathered the crisis relatively well thus far, particularly Without doubt, the review period was one of the most with regards to its financial system, has only served to volatile twelve months for financial markets and economies strengthen this thesis.
Stocks fell sharply during the latter half of 2008 as one financial sector rescue followed another but it In March, cash unleashed from expansionary monetary and took the failure of Lehman Brothers to wake politicians up to fiscal policies began to drive equity markets.
The rally in the grave reality that a total collapse of the financial system share prices was also supported by a belief that this massive was possible.
Markets stabilised in October as various economic stimulus would avert a repeat of a 1930s-style stimulus packages were hammered out, but uncertainty depression.
Together, these factors combined to provide the persisted until March, when fears of a repeat of the Great perfect conditions for a market rebound that was as violent Depression began to ease somewhat.
Having been sold off as its previous collapse.
heavily, markets then rebounded strongly, and the momentum of the rally was maintained throughout the rest The more share prices rose, the more investors, flush with of the review period.
In Asia, most markets ended the period cash, worried that they had been left behind.
Thus the rally above where they had started it, at least in sterling terms.
became self-perpetuating as corrections, perceived as opportunities to reduce cash positions, were brief.
Top In such an environment, the most important response for us performing markets in the region were the more peripheral, as fund managers was to remain calm and avoid being overly such as Malaysia, the Philippines and Indonesia.
Late in 2008, the inclination for many investors was to increase cash weightings, a decision which they may Towards the end of the review period, it was observed by subsequently have regretted.
Our investment philosophy has many that perhaps, markets had risen too quickly and had always been to think long term and to avoid making shortgot ahead of fundamentals.
While this may prove to be term market predictions and so we stayed focused on the true, it has been impossible, given the extent of artificial long-term outlook for our companies, maintaining close-tostimulus, to know exactly what the fundamentals look like.
fully-invested portfolios throughout the period.
The term can mean many things, but in the context of equity investing, it is broadly understood to refer to corporate To a large segment of market participants and policymakers, earnings.
Certainly, economies everywhere have been given a the realisation that the free market system, and financial boost by increased government spending, low borrowing markets in particular, could be deeply flawed meant that rates and other forms of cost cutting.
However, it is far from many all of a sudden assumed crisis management roles.
clear what will happen when the effects of these wear off.
In Government intervention, the apostasy of the free market, other words, whether currently-weak final private demand was suddenly the order of the day as a number of companies will have recovered by then.
deemed too large or, rather, too interconnected, to fail collapsed in rapid succession.
At first, politicians, either Performance Attribution Analysis fearing reprisal or not appreciating the severity of the The portfolios net asset value rose 11.1% in the twelve situation, were reluctant to step in to help, but soon months to the end of August 2009, outperforming its appeared to relish the role of saviour.
During the twelve months to October 2008, Asian markets The portfolios heavy position in India boosted relative had significantly underperformed their developed performance.
Also being light in Taiwan was beneficial as the counterparts.
This underperformance was driven by the belief technology-laden market lagged its peers.
Although warming that Asian economies, still very dependent upon demand relations between mainland China and Taiwan are expected from the West, would come off worse in a global economic to be positive for the islands economy, the effects of this downturn.
The problem was compounded by the fact that rapprochement will take time to flow through.
Meanwhile, regional stockmarkets saw large outflows of foreign portfolio we will retain our small exposure, given the narrowness of capital.
the market and the fact that it is dominated by large, complex entities with poor transparency and corporate Paradoxically, however, serious problems with the global governance.
As well, many of them operate in highly cyclical economic system seemed to give Asia a newfound sectors.
That said, the portfolios holding in Taiwan confidence.
Despite earlier fears, it became clear that Semiconductor Manufacturing Company added to absolute companies, governments and individuals in Asia had entered returns.
We like the chip foundry because it is a global leader, the downturn in sound financial health, having learned many both in terms of size, as well as research and development, lessons following the Asian financial crisis of the late 1990s.
not only enabling it to remain profitable during the While much has been written in recent years about the 21st downturn, but also to gain market share at the expense of its century belonging to the region, the fact that Asia appears to rivals.
It has a strong balance sheet while its management, 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc which is both proven and transparent, has a consistent Indeed, investing in the local offshoots of Multi National dividend policy, and continues to seek new growth areas, the Companies can be one of the most fruitful ways to get latest being alternative energy.
exposure to emerging markets because they generally enjoy the backing of a well-established parent, are managed by In India, the Congress Partys victory at the general elections teams that have a proven track record, and provide exposure was received positively by the market.
The partys enlarged to incipient consumer markets where penetration rates are mandate will lessen the need for reliance on coalition low and working populations young.
partners and, hopefully, enable it to push through key reforms.
In addition to the strong performance of the Singapore, where the portfolio has been heavily invested, stockmarket, the portfolios Indian holdings themselves performed poorly in the early part of the review period, as it mostly outperformed their country index, the notable was seen as an economy that was particularly dependent on exception being fraud-hit Satyam Computer.
This perception was not helped by the sharp Hero Honda.
The motorcycle maker posted healthy earnings contraction in GDP between September and March.
Its exposure to the rural However, the Singapore market bounced back strongly sector underpinned its resilience, as demand for its twoduring the rally, led by banks and property companies, and wheelers outside the urban centres held up well, helping the ended the period as a positive contributor to relative company gain market share in spite of the presence of performance.
Other holdings that performed well over the period were The revelation of fraud at Satyam Computer Services see generally those with an exposure to domestic consumption Portfolio Activity came as a great shock.
However, although in their respective markets.
These include Grasim Industries the tumble of its share price on 7 January 2009 hurt in India, Siam Cement in Thailand and Standard Chartered in performance, it should be noted that the portfolios Indian Hong Kong.
Grasim and Siam Cement have done relatively holdings, as a whole, added significantly to relative well, supported by rural demand and on expectations that performance during the period.
In contrast, China subtracted they will be beneficiaries of increased government spending from performance, largely because of stock selection.
Standard Chartered, meanwhile, mainland holdings, CNOOC, PetroChina and China Mobile, has weathered the crisis better than its counterparts in the underperformed a local market driven by mainland banks and West because it has a diversified exposure to Asia and property companies, of which we remain cautious.
Indeed minimal exposure to the US and Europe.
The lender was also the market rally was to some extent the result of bank credit helped by simply remaining open for business at a time when growth in the first half of 2009 that exceeded 30%.
While struggling rivals were pulling out of Asia.
such growth naturally boosts economic activity in the short term, we think that it was at the expense of credit quality, as Portfolio Activity indeed the countrys industry regulator recently conceded.
During the year, we introduced Indias Hindustan Unilever, The impact of this will likely only be felt in years to come.
part of the Unilever family of companies.
The reasons for liking the company are similar to those for Unilever Indeed this issue highlights why we are more comfortable Indonesia: huge growth potential in rural areas thanks to investing in India than in China, where we continue to rising disposable incomes and low penetration levels for fast maintain an underweight position.
In the mainlands moving consumer goods.
As with its Indonesian counterpart, command economy, the state often interferes with business the company has well-established channels of distribution decisions.
India, by contrast, leaves such choices primarily to for its broad mix of products that range from personal and the marketplace and the companies themselves.
Another health care, to household consumables, as well as food and concern is the lack of transparency.
For example, it is hard to beverages.
The other introduction, made in the first half of understand exactly where shareholders of Chinese companies the review period, was ABB India, the local subsidiary of one stand, in terms of priority, relative to other stakeholders such of the worlds leading power and automation engineering as employees, suppliers, major shareholders or the companies, both areas offering huge growth potential in government.
In addition, many of the large listed companies India.
are state owned, while many of the private sector companies have limited track records.
Against this, we sold Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, having held the position for only a couple of months.
This Another positive contributor to performance has been was uncharacteristic of our usual buy-and-hold approach Unilever Indonesia, a unit of the giant Anglo-Dutch consumer but, after a rapid rise in the share price, we felt the stock goods group.
Despite the tough operating environment, the price had become overvalued.
The company has a well-run company has continued to do well, benefiting from its wide business, deriving the bulk of its turnover from China share array of products and a well-established distribution network.
trading, and we would consider repurchasing shares if Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 9 Managers Review continued valuations returned to reasonable levels.
Other divestments wear off it will be apparent that economies remain, that occurred in the first half include Koreas Hyundai Motor fundamentally, in a very weak state.
and Taiwans Fubon Financial and Chinas Zhejiang Expressway, because of concerns over their business Where do we stand?
In short, somewhere between the two, prospects amid tougher economic conditions.
In India, we though tending towards the view of the pessimists.
exited Satyam Computer Services, after founder-chairman Ramalinga Raju admitted to fraud.
We also sold Pos That said, Asia is in a relatively strong position, given its Malaysia, which had outperformed the broader market, along prudent government finances, stable banking systems and with Koreas Kookmin Bank, whose repurchase offer we generally low levels of debt among corporates and accepted.
Finally, the share price of Hong Kong-listed utility consumers alike.
We, thus, remain optimistic about the longCLP had held up well when markets were falling and we took term prospects for the region but near term caution may well profits.
Gearing As always, our investment process focuses on businesses As highlighted in the Chairmans statement, the Company with strong, clear competitive advantages run by proven has a 40 million multi-currency loan facility in place.
Hence, we believe that the companies date, there have been no drawdowns on this facility.
that make up the portfolio will continue to deliver positive results for shareholders over the long term.
Outlook Stockmarkets are back at pre-Lehman levels and Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited economies appear to have stabilised.
This suggests that the 5 November 2009 worst of the crisis is behind us but it is still unclear what any recovery will look like.
The optimists argue that the unprecedented monetary and fiscal responses will allow a sustainable economic recovery, aided by naturally high growth in emerging countries such as China and India.
The on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited pessimists, on the other hand, argue that the stimulus is Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset simply creating artificial growth and that when its effects Management PLC.
