Information about the Manager Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited AAM Asia is The Aberdeen Group has its headquarters in Aberdeen with responsible for the Asian portfolios of all clients managed over 20 global offices including Bangkok, Edinburgh, Hong within the Aberdeen Group.
AAM Asia is based in Singapore Kong, Kuala Lumpur, London, Philadelphia, Singapore and and is a wholly-owned subsidiary and the Asia Pacific Sydney.
headquarters of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the Aberdeen Group, a publicly-quoted company on the Worldwide, the Aberdeen Group manages a combined London Exchange.
141.4 billion in assets as at 31 August 2009 for a range of clients, including individuals and institutions, through mutual AAM Asia have been the Aberdeen Group's principal and segregated funds.
The Aberdeen Group manages over 41 managers of Asia-Pacific assets since 1992, and had over 364 investment companies and other closed-ended funds staff across the region at 31 August 2009.
Total funds in the representing 8.3 billion under management.
They adhere region, which are also managed from Bangkok, Hong Kong, closely to the Groups investment style which is that of Kuala Lumpur and Sydney are over 34.5 billion as at 31 fundamental investors, with an emphasis on company visits August 2009. and original research.
The Investment Team Senior Managers Peter Hames Hugh Young Flavia Cheong Investment Director Managing Director Senior Investment Manager BSc in Economics & Accountancy BA in Politics from Exeter University.
Masters in Economics from from Bristol University.
Started Started investment career in 1980.
Joined In charge of AAM Asias Far East with Investment Company of the Aberdeen in 1989.
Peoples Republic of China and responsible for the day-to-day Development Bank of Singapore.
management of Edinburgh Dragon Started investment career in 1987.
Nicholas Yeo, Adrian Lim Andrew Gillan Investment Manager.
Investment Manager Investment Manager Chartered Financial Analyst, BA Chartered Financial Analyst, B. Acc MA Joint Honours in French and Hons from Manchester University, from Nanyang Technological European History from University of and MSc from Warwick Business University Singapore.
Joined Aberdeen in 2000 and Aberdeen in 2000.
Previously he was September 2000 and transferred to was seconded to the London GEM an associate director at Arthur AAM Asia in November 2001. team for two years where he Andersen advising clients on covered EMEA and Latin American mergers & acquisitions in South East companies.
