The Investment Process They oversee a team of nine portfolio managers in Singapore Philosophy and Style who act as generalists, cross-covering the region.
In addition, The Managers investment philosophy is that markets are not AAM Asia has offices in Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong, Sydney always efficient.
We believe that superior investment returns and Bangkok.
are therefore attainable by identifying good companies which are cheap in terms of the fundamentals that in our Risk Controls opinion drive share prices over the long term.
We undertake substantial due diligence before initiating any investment We seek to minimise risk by our in-depth research.
We do including company visits in order to assure ourselves of the not view divergence from a benchmark as risk we view quality of the prospective investment.
We are then careful investment in poorly run expensive companies that we do not to pay too high a price when making the investment.
In fact where risk parameters are Subsequent to that investment we then keep in close touch expressed in benchmark relative terms, asset including with the company, aiming to meet management at least sector allocation constitutes a significant constraint on twice a year.
Given our long-term fundamental investment stock selection.
Hence diversification of stocks provides our philosophy, one would not expect much change in the main control.
companies in which we invest.
We do, however, take opportunities offered to us by what we see as anomalous Aberdeens performance and investment risk unit price movements within stock markets to either top up or independently monitors portfolio positions, and reports top slice positions, which typically accounts for the bulk of monthly.
As well as attributing performance it also produces the activity within the portfolio during the year under review.
statistical analysis, which is used by the Manager primarily to check the portfolio is behaving as expected, not as a AAM Asia is based in Singapore.
Founded in 1992, the office predictive tool.
is run by Hugh Young and Peter Hames, the founding managing and investment director, respectively.
Regional Teams Company visit note Risk controls Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio universe construction Pass or fail?
Potential revisit Watchlist Review Monitor 12 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
