Marketing Strategy Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc contributes to the marketing Internet programme run by the Aberdeen Group AAM on behalf of The AAM Investment Trust website contains details of closed a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under funds and investment companies managed or advised by the this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by Aberdeen Group.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc has its own dedicated website at: The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively www.
This allows web users to access with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, information on the Companys share price performance, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and capital structure, stock exchange announcements and rating of the Companys shares.
The site is continuously being evaluated for improvement.
These aims can be met in several ways: It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these Investor Relations Programme various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each month institutional investors and prospects receive a The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the Managers report on your Company that includes detailed Programme.
The Head of Investor Relations for Investment performance analysis.
Trusts reports to the Board and provides a written summary quarterly.
Group Schemes AAM runs a group Share Plan and ISA.
These schemes allow If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager investment free of dealing costs and, with only nominal exit or performance, please telephone AAM Customer Services charges, have proved popular with private investors.
Department direct private investors on 0500 00 00 40 or the broker desk on 0800 592 487 Institutions and IFAs Newsletter Alternatively, internet users may e-mail AAM at The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on inv.
com or write to AAM at Aberdeen markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, Lynchwood distributed free of charge.
Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP Public Relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder Services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Head of Investor Relations who has considerable experience in the marketing and communications of investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing professionals.
50 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although How to Invest investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Investors can buy and sell shares directly through a significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be VAT.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, bought directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan for calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Children and Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan, current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of Investment Trust ISA or ISA Transfer.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children ISA Transfer Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of us which can be invested in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc while investment companies under its management including retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
Anyone can invest in the ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and family of 250. friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the Note bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
Stock market and currency movements may cause Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well 0.5% on entry.
There is no as rise and investors may not get back the amount they restriction on how long an investor need invest in the originally invested.
Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts common with other schemes of this type, all investments are purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference held in nominee accounts.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be purchased.
There are no investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum investments Trust Information start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty If investors would like details of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc currently 0.5% on entry.
or information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in Transfers please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to a Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, by instructing Aberdeen in writing at any time.
In common Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP or e-mail at with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in inv.
Details are also available on nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other www.
co. uk rights of share ownership.
Literature Request Service Stocks and Shares ISA For literature and application forms for the Managers investment trust products, please contact: An investment of up to 7,200 in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 can be made in the tax year 2009 2010 and up to 10,200 in Email: aam@lit-request.
Between 6 October 2009 and 5 April 2010, an additional Keeping you Informed 3,000 may be invested in an ISA, for the tax year The Companys share prices appears daily in the Financial 2009 2010, provided that the ISA holder will be aged 50 Times and the Daily Telegraph.
years or over not later than 5 April 2010.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 51 How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc continued For internet users, detailed data on the Company, including price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
Contact Us For information on Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and for any administrative queries relating to the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Block C, Western House Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Alternatively, if you have an administrative query which relates to a certificated holding, please contact the Registrar, as follows: Equniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0871 384 2499 Fax: 0871 384 2100 Shareview Enquiry Line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing: 0871 384 2255 Calls to the above equinity numbers will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT Landline.
Offer telephony providers costs may vary.
The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
