Corporate Summary The Company purchased through the Aberdeen savings scheme and are fully qualifying for inclusion within tax efficient ISA wrappers The Company is an investment trust and its shares are listed see page 51. on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with AAM Limited for the Investment Manager provision of management and secretarial services the Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM Limited or the Management Agreement, details of which are provided in Manager, a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC the Directors Report.
In September 2009 the Management Agreement was Capital Structure transferred under a novation agreement from Edinburgh At 31 August 2009 the Company had a capital structure Fund Managers plc, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen comprising 230,954,375 Ordinary shares of 20p.
Asset Management PLC to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, also a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Total Assets and Net Asset Value Management PLC.
Certain terms of the agreement were The Company had total assets of 414.1 million and a net amended to bring the agreement in line with market asset value of 179.3 pence per Ordinary share at 31 August practice.
However, the main commercial terms of the 2009.
The Directors review the terms of the Management Websites Agreement on a regular basis and have confirmed that, due www.
co. uk to the investment skills, experience of the Manager and its www.
com long-term relative performance, in their opinion the continuing appointment of Aberdeen Asset Managers Company Secretary Limited, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited shareholders as a whole.
40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday Friday, 9am 5pm Email: inv.
com Principal Risk Factors Investment in Far East securities or those of companies that derive significant revenue or profit from the Far East involves a greater degree of risk than that usually associated with investment in the securities in major securities markets.
Further details of the risks are disclosed in the Business Review contained within the Directors Report on page 23.
Duration Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company at every third Annual General Meeting.
The next continuation vote will be held at the Annual General Meeting in December 2009.
Share Dealing ISA Status Shares in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be 2 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
