Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Future Trends statements for the year ended 31 August 2009.
The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital Business Review markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional With the rest of the Report and Accounts, this review is risks and the outlook of the region is provided in the intended to provide shareholders with the information and Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
measures that the Directors use to assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management of the Companys portfolio.
Risk Management The Business Review is prepared in accordance with the The major risks associated with the Company are detailed requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006. below: Resource risk: The Company is an investment trust and has Principal Activity no employees.
The responsibility for the management of The Company is registered as a public limited company and the Company has been delegated to Aberdeen Asset is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Managers Limited the Manager under the management Companies Act 2006. agreement.
The terms of the management agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions expected of the The Company carries on business as an investment trust and Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite management contract formally on an annual basis.
approval of investment trust status from the Inland Revenue for accounting periods up to and including 31 August 2008.
Investment and market risk: The Company is exposed to the effect of variations in share prices due to the nature of The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the its business.
Investment in Asian equities involves a greater Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 degree of risk than that usually associated with investment August 2009 so as to be able to obtain approval as an in the major securities markets.
These include a greater risk investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and of social, political and economic instability including Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year, although approval changes in government which may restrict investment for the period would be subject to review were there to be opportunities and have an adverse effect on economic any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
Changes in legal, regulatory and accounting policies can also affect the value of the Companys investments.
The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the The lower volumes of trading in certain securities of requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings emerging markets may result in lack of liquidity and price Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will volatility.
In addition, currency fluctuations and high continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
interest rates may affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Investment Objective and Policy The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital The Board continually monitors the investment policy of growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
reviews the Companys performance compared to its Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large risks relating to the Companys investment activities, companies.
including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on Gearing risk: The Company has in place a 40 million multipage 3. currency loan facility.
As at 31 August 2009 no drawdowns had been made on this facility.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls and gains.
In order to manage the Review of Performance level of gearing, the Board has set a maximum gearing ratio An outline of the performance, market background, of 20%.
investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Serious breaches of regulations, such as section 842 of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, the UKLA shareholder present in person has one vote for each share Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a held and a proxy has one vote for every share represented.
number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Audit Committee monitors compliance with There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the of the Company's shares and there are no special rights Manager.
attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may result in Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting rights.
a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Board monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is Directors, amendments of the Articles of Association and authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act 2006.
There are no agreements which the Monitoring Performance Key Performance Company is party to that might affect its control following a Indicators takeover bid: and there are no agreements between the At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss performance measures to assess the Companys success in of office.
Other than the Management Agreement with the achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators Manager, further details of which are set out on page 25, the KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: Company is not aware of any contractual or other agreements which are essential to its business which ought Net asset value total return to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
Share price total return Performance attribution Dividends Discount to net asset value The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.61p per Ordinary share 2008 1.6p be paid on 11 December 2009 A record of these measures is disclosed on page 4. to shareholders on the register on 13 November 2009.
Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board Directors also considers peer group comparative performance.
Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown Social, Community, Employee Responsibilities and on pages 20 to 22.
Environmental Policy Tony Cassidy will retire from the Board at the conclusion of As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social, the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Allan McKenzie community, employee or environmental responsibilities.
will take over the chairmanship of the Company at this time.
Details of the Companys Socially Responsible Investment policy are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Allan McKenzie will retire from the Board and, being eligible, Share Capital offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
There were no buybacks of Ordinary shares during the financial year to 31 August 2009 and there have been no In accordance with the corporate governance procedures buybacks since the year end.
endorsed by the Board, all Directors who have attained more than nine years service or are aged over 70 years will retire At 31 August 2009 the Company capital structure consisted from the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an of 230,954,375 Ordinary shares of 20p each 2008- annual basis.
Messrs Frame, Gairns, Tyrie and Watt will retire 230,954,375 Ordinary shares.
The Ordinary shares carry a and be proposed for re-election at the Annual General right to receive dividends which are declared from time to Meeting.
time by an ordinary resolution of the Company up to the amount recommended by the Board and to receive any In line with Dragons strong commitment to its corporate interim dividends which the Directors may resolve the governance responsibilities, the Board regularly reviews its Company should pay.
On a winding up, after meeting the performance and structure to ensure it has the correct mix of liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to relevant skills and experience for the good conduct of the Ordinary shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
As part of this process the Board has On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person, or now agreed a programme of refreshment, which will see its by proxy, has one vote and, on a poll, every Ordinary 24 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc membership change as current directors retire in an orderly managed by the Manager and ii 50% of the value of any manner, and new directors are recruited.
investment funds managed or advised by investment managers other than the Manager.
No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No Auditors Director had a service contract with the Company.
The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office, and resolutions will be proposed at the The Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them, 31 August 2009 are shown in Table 1. and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Non-audit fees of 4,000 were paid to the auditors during The Company has not been notified of any subsequent the period, which related to their review of the interim report changes in Directors interests.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so 31 August 2009 1 September 2008 far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to Tony Cassidy 9,636 9,538 have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any Frank Frame 8,500 8,500 relevant audit information and to establish that the David Gairns Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Tony Lowrie Corporate Governance Allan McKenzie Peter Tyrie 11,000 11,000 The Statement of Corporate Governance, which forms part of the Directors Report, is contained on pages 28 to 31.
Iain Watt 17,789 17,789 Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company of which 625 2007-625 Ordinary shares are held in trust Substantial Share Interests Directors Conflicts of Interest At 5 November 2009, the substantial interests in the Ordinary share capital which had been notified to the The Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect Company during the period are shown in Table 2. interests of each Director and has concluded that there were no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
of Ordinary Directors Liability Insurance Holder shares % The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions City of London Investment 41,600,585 18.0 contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Management Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and Lazard Freres Asset 20,948,757 9.1 officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Management Company.
Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 5.2 Rensburg Sheppards 9,436,773 4.1 Management Agreement Investment Management The Manager to the Company is Aberdeen Asset Managers Legal & General Assurance 9,183,384 4.0 Limited.
The management of the Company was transferred Advance Developing Markets 7,042,500 3.0 from Edinburgh Fund Managers plc to Aberdeen Asset Table 2 Substantial share interests Managers Limited in September 2009 by means of a novation agreement.
Payments Policy Under the Management Agreement, the Manager is required It is the Companys policy to settle all investment to give a notice period of six months if it wishes to terminate transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The notice period for the Company is three the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses months or on shorter notice in certain circumstances.
are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior period if actual notice is less than the notice period.
The to business taking place.
management fee is 0.25% per quarter of the net assets of the Company less i the value of any investment funds Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting of the Company as at the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 34.6 million Ordinary shares.
Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Meeting of the Company to be held on 9 December 2009, share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p.
The the following resolutions will be proposed: maximum price for an Ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount being not more than the i Section 551 authority to allot shares higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market Resolution 11, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if quotations for the Companys Ordinary shares for the approved, give the Directors a general authority to allot five business days immediately preceding the date of new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last 15,396,958, representing approximately 33.33 per independent trade and the highest current independent cent.
of the total Ordinary share capital of the Company bid relating to an Ordinary share on the trading venue in issue as at the date of this Directors Report, such where the purchase is carried out.
authority to expire on 28 February 2011 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to the Company unless previously revoked, varied or do so would enhance the net asset value per share and extended by the Company in general meeting.
is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Shares so repurchased will be cancelled.
This authority will ii Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions expire on 28 February 2011 or, if earlier, at the As noted above, resolution 11 will, if approved, give the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Directors a general authority to allot securities up to an Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958.
Resolution by the Company in general meeting.
"12, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, give the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary shares up v Adoption of new Articles of Association to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of Since the Articles of Association the ""Articles"" of the 2,309,544, being 5% of the current issued share capital Company were last updated, company law in the United of the Company, for cash other than to existing Kingdom has undergone major reform through the shareholders pro rata to their holdings."
"A maximum of coming into force of the Companies Act 2006 the 15,396,958 of unissued Ordinary share capital may ""2006 Act"" and the EU Shareholders Rights Directive."
also be allotted for cash, pursuant to a rights issue made Accordingly, the Board considers it prudent to replace pro rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares the Company's existing Articles with new articles which would only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue take account of these developments.
It is proposed in at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
Resolution 15 to adopt new Articles of Association the This authority will expire on 28 February 2011 or, if New Articles in order to update the Companys earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General current Articles the Current Articles primarily to take Meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, account of the coming into force of the Companies varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, the implementation The Directors consider that the powers proposed to be of the Companies Act 2006 and amendments to the granted by the above resolutions are necessary to Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are Directors do not have any intention of exercising such summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of Meeting.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes iii Continuation vote which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Resolution 13, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if Act 2006, the Shareholders Rights Regulations or the approved, allow the Company to continue as an Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 have not investment trust.
been noted in the Appendix.
iv Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares A copy of the New Articles will be available for Resolution 14, which will be proposed as an ordinary inspection at the offices of Aberdeen Asset Managers resolution, will authorise the Company to make market Limited, Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London during purchases of its own shares.
"The maximum number of normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital 26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc the notice of the Annual General Meeting the ""Notice"" until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on the date of the Annual General Meeting at 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh from 11.00 am until the conclusion of the meeting."
vi Notice period for general meetings This resolution is required to reflect the coming into force of the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations, as they amend the Companies Act 2006, increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company has proposed a provision in the New Articles to enable the Company to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days' notice.
In order for this to be effective, the shareholders must also approve the calling of meetings on 14 days' notice in this separate resolution.
The approval will be effective until the Company's next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations before it can call a general meeting on 14 days' notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling, in aggregate, 46,925 Ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the existing issued Ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Secretary Edinburgh, 5 November 2009 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27
