24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued VAT on Management fees With effect from late 2007, no VAT is payable by investment trusts on management or performance fees.
During the year Fidelity paid to the Company 1,969,215 in respect of VAT on management fees paid by the Company in the period from 1 August 2002 to 5 November 2007, together with interest of 250,620.
The Board expects the Company to receive refunds of VAT and interest thereon for earlier periods from Aberdeen Asset Management who subsequently acquired Edinburgh Fund Managers.
However, as the amounts involved and timing of receipts is uncertain, no provision has been made in these accounts.
The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies as determined from time to time by the Board.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as Interim Management Statements.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based on its recent review of activities, believes that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must be put up for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association require that no Directors shall serve more than three consecutive years since previously elected or re-elected before offering himself or herself for re-election.
The present members of the Board, all of whom served throughout the year, are listed on page 13 together with their biographies.
In accordance with the Board's tenure policy set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 30, Scott Dobbie, having served on the Board for more than 9 years, will retire at this years AGM and will offer himself for re-election.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, at every AGM, one third of the Directors shall retire by rotation and no Director shall hold office for more than three consecutive years without retiring by rotation.
Jim Pettigrew and William Samuel will therefore retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at this AGM.
THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings including committees held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director: MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT NOMINATION BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED 1 Scott Dobbie 77 3 n a 11 11 Jim Pettigrew 7 7 3 3 1 1 1 1 Richard Barfield 7 7 3 3 1 1 1 1 Nicola Ralston 7 7 3 3 1 1 1 1 William Samuel 7 5 3 2 1 1 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 7 7 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Board members attended a significant number of additional meetings in connection with the change of Manager as well as attending non-scheduled meetings to deal with other ad hoc items.
All Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
All Directors are independent of the investment manager.
Directors Interests The beneficial interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company are set out below: 31 MARCH 1 APRIL 2009 2008 Scott Dobbie 133,266 128,266 Jim Pettigrew 20,000 20,000 Richard Barfield 13,984 13,984 Nicola Ralston 15,000 15,000 William Samuel 23,170 23,170 Sir Nigel Wicks 3,500 3,500 Scott Dobbie also has a non-beneficial interest in 422,416 2008: 422,416 ordinary shares.
This largely arises as a result of Mr Dobbies membership of the Board of Trustees of the Cambridge Endowment for Research in Finance.
Save as aforesaid, no Director had any interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the shares of the Company during the year.
Since the year end Mr Dobbies beneficial holding has increased by 347 shares following reinvestment of dividends.
No Director held any of the Companys debenture stocks at either date.
No further changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
The Company has entered into a Deed of Indemnity with each Director under which the Directors are indemnified by the Company for, inter alia, costs incurred in defending claims made by third parties.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
