THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 The proposed, revised Objective and Investment Policy is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Company Business A review of the Companys business is provided in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Report.
The Board does not at present envisage any significant change in the business of the Company.
No important events effecting the Company have occurred since the end of its financial year.
Issued Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys shares At the year end, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 195,116,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
During the year, 3,178,014 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 794,504 were repurchased for cancellation at an average price of 415.43p per share.
This represented 1.6% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors may determine.
At a general meeting of the Company every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
As at 31 March 2009, the Companys issued share capital did not include any ordinary shares that were not fully paid.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Company is seeking authority for the Directors to allot new shares and to renew the Directors authority to buy back shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Additional details are given in the section on Special Business at the AGM further on in this Report.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the income statement.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final proposed dividend for the year ended 31 March 2009 of 6.15p 2008: 5.65p per ordinary share will be payable on 24 July 2009 to Shareholders on the register on 19 June 2009.
This will give total dividends for the year of 20.4p per share, compared with 19.9p in 2008.
Revenue returns per share in this year were 21.0p 2008: 21.4p.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2009 the mid-market price was 292.5p per ordinary share 2008: 403.25p.
The net asset value debt at par and net asset value debt at market value per ordinary share were 326.99p and 293.56p respectively.
The comparative figures on 31 March 2008 were 474.74p and 448.53p.
