THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 Other risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceptional impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Resources The Company is an investment trust and has no employees.
All the Directors are non-executive.
However, through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services is available to it.
The most significant contract is the Investment Management Agreement IMA with the Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited, to whom responsibility for the management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every Board meeting.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Neil Woodford, Head of Investment at Invesco Perpetual based in Henley-on-Thames.
Neil has worked in equity markets since 1981, joined Perpetual in 1988 and has been the Fund Manager of the Company since September 2008, when Invesco Asset Management Limited took over the management of the Company.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: any proposed variations outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The outcome of this review is discussed on page 24.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Auditors, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
The Performance of the service providers are reviewed formally by the Board on an annual basis.
Relationships Through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements and the publication of a daily net asset value, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objectives and policies.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis and, both independently and through the Manager, reviews the Companys objectives and policies in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager which provides both Investment Management Services and Company Secretarial and Administrative support.
Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Company has the following additional advisers and principal service providers: KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors: JPMorgan Chase as Custodian: Equiniti Limited as Registrar: and Collins Stewart Europe Limited as Broker.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2009, the Companys gross assets were valued at 840 million 2008: 1,141 million.
These comprised a portfolio of mainly equity investments and net current assets.
1 The Company has 200 million of borrowings in the form of two 100 million debentures.
The 11 2% 3 debenture matures in 2014 and the 7 4% debenture in 2022.
The weighted average interest rate is 9.625%.
The Company also has a bank overdraft facility of 15 million undrawn at 31 March 2009, which can be used to facilitate settlement of short-term cash timing differences.
