THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review Against a backdrop of substantial market volatility, the UK equity market gave investors a total return of 29.3%, as measured by the FTSE All Share index over the twelve months to 31 March 2009.
Global equity markets endured one of the most turbulent periods on record, as slowing economic growth coupled with uncertainty over the health of the banking system weighed on market sentiment.
In particular, September 2008 witnessed unprecedented levels of market volatility, primarily due to the ongoing turmoil in the financial sector, but then exacerbated by the bankruptcy of US investment bank Lehman Brothers.
Against this backdrop, policymakers were pushed into aggressive action to assist banks through nationalisations, capital injections or the issuance of state guarantees.
However, whilst government action around the world ensured that the banking system stabilised, governments were not able to prevent an immediate negative impact on the real economy from the freeze of credit that followed the Lehman Brothers failure.
The sudden lack of available credit to so many corporates and households took a substantial toll on economies, leading to a contraction in GDP in the developed world of several percentage points.
The Bank of Englands BoE Monetary Policy Committee cut UK interest rates aggressively during the year in an attempt to cushion the slowdown.
At the end of March 2009, the base rate stood at 0.5%, the lowest level in the BoEs 315-year history.
The UK economy, however, continued to deteriorate.
GDP growth for fourth quarter 2008 confirmed that the economy had entered a recession, with the 1.5% quarterly drop in output being the biggest since the second quarter of 1980.
Unemployment rose sharply and public finance data showed that net borrowing had been much larger than expected.
The financial landscape changed markedly over the 12 months to 31 March 2009, with many of the worlds largest financial organisations especially in the US being undermined by the sheer scale of the crisis.
Within the UK, HBOS merged with Lloyds TSB following a run on HBOS shares.
Bradford & Bingleys mortgage business was nationalised and its savings assets sold off to Spains Santander.
The UK government assumed a prominent role, part-nationalising RBS and the newly formed Lloyds Banking Group, whilst Barclays opted not to accept any government assistance, preferring instead to raise additional funding from Middle Eastern and other investors.
Portfolio Strategy and Review With an unprecedented level of debt built up in the UK economy, the Manager believes that the current process of rebalancing the UK economy may take years to conclude.
In addition, until evidence of a return to sustained economic growth becomes concrete, economically sensitive areas of the stockmarket will struggle to make significant progress.
Therefore, the Manager is maintaining a defensive bias within the portfolio, with sectors such as utility, tobacco, pharmaceuticals and telecommunications featuring prominently.
The Manager favours the sound balance sheets, earnings visibility and dividend security that defensive companies offer and believe that his investment strategy will benefit the fund during these challenging times.
In the period from 15 September 2008 to 31 March 2009 when the Manager took over the management of the Company, several new holdings were purchased for the portfolio.
These included tobacco companies Altria and Reynolds American.
The Manager also added to several of the portfolios existing holdings at favourable levels.
These included pharmaceuticals company AstraZeneca and retailer Tesco.
Whilst no industry can be described as recession proof, there are some industries which often prove to be resilient.
The Manager has identified the tobacco sector as a recession-resilient industry since demand for cigarettes and other tobacco products generally hold up well in times of economic difficulty.
It is for this reason that the Manager purchased Altria and Reynolds American for the portfolio.
The portfolios exposure to AstraZeneca was increased during the sharp rotation from defensive sectors into cyclical parts of the market towards the end of March 2009, which left defensive companies such as AstraZeneca out of favour with investors.
The Manager believes that the revival in the performance of cyclical companies is predicated on the belief that governments and central banks may somehow be able to engineer an economic recovery later this year.
The Manager does not concur with this view and considers that the economic downturn will be deeper and more prolonged than the market is currently expecting.
For this reason, the Manager remains confident in the investment case for AstraZeneca.
10 MANAGERS REPORT continued Whilst Tesco provides exposure to the UK consumer, something that the Manager has been minimising in recent times due to his concerns about the aggregate level of debt held by UK households, he believes that Tesco should prove more resilient through this recession than most retailers since its business mix is dominated by food.
In addition, with over half of its floor space now based overseas, Tesco is now by no means just a UK retailer but has other avenues for long-term growth.
This growth looks undervalued in the Managers view, and recent share-price weakness has provided an opportunity to add to the position.
In terms of disposals, the Manager reduced the portfolios holding in oil major BP to reflect his view that the decline in demand as a result of the global recession will probably act to keep oil prices depressed for some time to come.
Furthermore, whilst BP has committed to paying a dividend this year, the Manager believes that at current depressed oil prices it will be difficult for the company to cover its dividend solely through cashflow and it is his opinion that it may have to finance some of the payment through debt.
In the Managers view, this policy is not sustainable and if the oil price remains depressed for some years, the dividend may come under pressure.
The Manager has reduced the holding in BP to reflect this risk to future dividends.
Elsewhere, the holding in British Energy was sold after the company was acquired by EDF.
A residue of this holding remains, however, in the form of a nuclear power note issued by Barclays, which resulted from the EDF deal structure and enables the portfolio to remain exposed to the potential for higher power prices in the UK and the improving reliability of British Energys fleet of power stations.
Outlook The Manager expects the economic outlook to remain difficult for some time and in this environment his preferences continue to be companies with sound balance sheets, earnings visibility and dividend security.
The Manager has been able to find companies with these characteristics in the utility, tobacco, pharmaceutical and telecoms sectors and he considers valuations in these areas to be attractive at current levels.
He believes that these businesses have not yet been rewarded for the certainty they offer in an otherwise highly uncertain market.
In his view, these are the sectors that can lead the market higher when some discrimination is shown between fundamentally sound companies and those more vulnerable to further economic weakness.
Neil Woodford Investment Manager 8 June 2009
