26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW continued The Articles of Association of the Company, approved by shareholders at last years AGM on 21 July 2008, give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
It is the Boards future intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept in the Registered Office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Directors who have potential conflicts of interest will not take part in any discussions which relate to any of their potential conflicts.
Deeds of Indemnity A Deed of Indemnity was executed between the Company and each Director.
Under the terms of the indemnities, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities which the Director may sustain or incur in the execution or purported execution or discharge of his or her duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement in respect thereof.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnities notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, Directors will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which they are convicted or in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgment is given against a Director.
In these circumstances, the Director will repay to the Company any amount received from the Company under his indemnity.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 2006 previously section 309A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended or otherwise prohibited by law or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith or arising from gross negligence.
Audit Information The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business, including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2009 2008: nil.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2008: nil.
