THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 Analysed for Relative Performance Before and After Change of Manager on 15 September 2008 The capital net asset value used below is the capital net asset value at par, less proposed dividends.
FOR YEAR CAPITAL RETURN BASIS BEFORE CHANGE AFTER CHANGE ENDED OF MANAGER OF MANAGER 31 MARCH 2009 %% % Net asset value capital return 7.6 26.3 31.9 Benchmark total return 5.8 28.0 32.2 Relative performance 1.8 1.7 0.3 Performance attribution analyses the Companys performance relative to its benchmark.
Portfolio under outperformance measures the relative effect of the Companys investment portfolio against that of its benchmark.
Net gearing effect measures the impact of the debenture stocks and cash on the Companys relative performance.
Interest arising from the debenture stocks reduces the assets available to invest, resulting in a negative impact on performance.
Management fees including both the base fee and any performance fee, reduce the Company net assets and decrease performance.
Refund of VAT on management fees, and interest thereon, will add to net assets and thus performance.
Other expenses and tax reduce the level of assets and therefore result in a negative effect for relative performance.
Share buy backs measures the effect of shares bought back on the Companys relative performance.
Invesco Perpetuals Investment Process and Performance At the core of the Investment Manager, Neil Woodford's investment philosophy is a belief in active investment management.
Fundamental principles drive a genuinely unconstrained investment approach, which aims to deliver attractive total returns over the long term.
These fundamendal principles place an emphasis on sound balance sheets, good cash flows, the ability to pay and sustain dividends, good asset bases and market conditions.
The Investment Manager and the UK Equities team employ a pragmatic, valuation-orientated approach that allows investment freedom, such that the Investment Manager can select stocks free from the constraint of the holdings within an index.
The Investment Managers focus is on absolute rather than relative returns, as he prefers to adopt an un-weighted view of the market and to invest where he sees value and opportunity.
The aim of the investment process is to find companies whose outlook or growth prospects are not reflected in their valuations.
To identify these companies the Investment Manager combines bottom-up research with a top-down macro-economic view.
Stocks are then subjected to detailed fundamental analysis augmented by a qualitative assessment of the company.
The output from this analysis is then used to construct and review the portfolio with the aim of maximising exposure to the most attractively valued ideas within its risk parameters.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is ultimately responsible for risk control systems but the day to day operation and monitoring is delegated to the Manager.
Market risk The uncertainty over future equity market price movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the Companys existence.
The Companys objectives and the means of attaining them are reviewed annually.
The Companys portfolio consists of a mix of assets and securities that may display high levels of volatility from time to time in response to economic and other market forces.
The Board receives the Managers performance report against this background on a monthly basis and reviews it at each Board meeting.
