THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 DIRECTORS 1 2 Scott Dobbie Nicola Ralston Scott Dobbie CBE was Nicola Ralston was appointed to the Board appointed to the Board in 1998 and became in 2003.
She started her Chairman in 2003.
He financial career in 1977 joined Wood Mackenzie & moving to Schroders in Co. in 1971 and has 1979.
During her time with worked since then with this the Schroder Group, Nicola and successor companies, undertook a variety of remaining a Senior Advisor to Deutsche Bank.
analytical, fund management and business He is the Chairman of the Securities & Investment management roles before becoming Head of Institute and Standard Life European Private Equity Investment Management for the Schroder Group Trust and a Director of the Qualifications and in 1999.
After leaving Schroders in 2001, Nicola Curriculum Authority.
worked with a management consulting firm and was a Director of several hedge funds.
From 2005 to 2006 she was Head of Global Consulting at 2 Jim Pettigrew Hewitt and from 2007 to 2008 she was a Director Jim Pettigrew was of Liability Solutions, a hedge fund marketing and appointed to the Board on consulting firm.
Nicola is currently a Director and 27 October 2005 and is Co-Founder of PiRho Investment Consulting and is Chairman of the Audit shortly coming to the end of her second term as a Committee.
He qualified as Governor of the CFA Institute.
a Chartered Accountant in Dundee, has a law degree 2 William Samuel from Aberdeen University William Samuel was and a post graduate diploma in accountancy from appointed to the Board in Glasgow University.
He is currently a vice Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Following a chairman of Lazard in number of finance function positions in Scotland London having formerly and in London including Group Treasurer of been vice chairman of Sedgwick Group plc, he was Group Finance European Investment Director, ICAP plc, a FTSE 100 company and the Banking at Citigroup, worlds largest specialist inter-dealer broker from chairman of HP Bulmer Holdings and Group January 1999 to June 2006.
He was Chief Managing Director Investment Bank at Schroders Operating and Financial Officer of Ashmore Group and a director of Schroders PLC.
He is also plc from 2006 to 2007 and was appointed Chief chairman of Galiform, deputy chairman and senior Executive Officer of CMC Markets plc in 2007. independent director of Inchcape plc and a non-executive director of the Ecclesiastical 2 Richard Barfield Insurance Office.
He joined Schroders Investment Richard Barfield was Management Department in 1977 having qualified appointed to the Board as a Chartered Accountant and was Head of in 2001 and is Senior Investment Banking when Schroders sold its Independent Director.
investment banking business to Salomon, Smith, He was previously Chief Barney, part of Citigroup in 2000.
Investment Manager at Standard Life.
He is 2 Sir Nigel Wicks Chairman of The Baillie Sir Nigel Wicks, GCB, CVO, Gifford Japan Trust and is a director of The CBE was appointed to the Merchants Trust, The JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Board in 2005.
After Investment Trust, the Standard Life Property working for The British Income Trust and is a member of the Professional Petroleum Company, Sir Oversight Board.
Nigel Joined HM Treasury in 1968.
He worked for Prime Ministers Harold Wilson, James Callaghan and Margaret Thatcher.
He has been the United Kingdoms Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank and the Prime Ministers representative Sherpa for the Economic Summits of the Group of Seven Industrialised Nations.
From 1989 to 2000, he was 1 Member of the Management Engagement and the Treasurys Second Permanent Secretary Nomination Committees.
responsible for international financial matters.
The 2 Member of the Audit, Management Prime Minister appointed him as Chair of the Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Committee on Standards in Public Life for the period March 2001 to April 2004.
He is Chairman of Euroclear plc and a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
