THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 In accordance with the Financial Services Authority UK Listing Rules, the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the average of the middle market values of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price which may be paid will be 25p per share, this being the nominal value of a share.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company will finance the purchase of ordinary shares by using its existing cash balance or by selling securities in the Companys portfolio.
The Directors might consider holding repurchased shares as Treasury shares with a view to possible resale.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
Ordinary Resolution 12: Change to Companys Objective and Investment Policy The Directors are proposing a change to the Objective and Investment Policy to permit the investment manager to invest up to 15% of the Companys assets in non-domestic listed securities.
This is to provide the investment manager with the discretion to invest in securities not quoted on a recognised UK stock exchange.
The proposed revised Objective and Investment Policy, which will permit investment of up to 15% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK, is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 56.
Special Resolution 13: Notice Period for General Meetings It is expected that the EU Shareholder Rights Directive, when it is brought into force, will increase the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 13 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 days notice.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Investment Management Agreement IMA Current IMA from 15 September 2008 Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than 3 months notice provided such notice may not expire any earlier than 15 September 2009.
The management fee is payable monthly in arrears and is equal to 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end.
IAML will also be entitled to a performance fee in respect of each rolling three year period in which the Company outperforms its benchmark, the FTSE All-Share Index, plus a hurdle rate, being the equivalent of 1.25% per annum, as adjusted for shorter periods.
The IMA provides for transitional arrangements for the periods up to 31 March 2011, under which half of any performance fee for each period is paid at the end of the period and half deferred.
Any deferred portion becomes payable after 31 March 2011 if and when performance meets or exceeds the benchmark plus hurdle rate.
Any performance fee earned will be the lower of 15% of the out-performance based on the average quarterly net asset value with debt at par of the Company over the relevant performance period and 1% of net asset value, as adjusted for shorter periods where required.
A performance fee of 3,422,000 has been accrued in these financial statements for the period 15 September 2008 31 March 2009, of which half has been shown in creditors due within one year and the remainder as a provision.
Previous IMA to 14 September 2008 Under the Fidelity Investments International Fidelity IMA, Fidelity agreed to provide investment management, administrative and secretarial services to the Company for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26% per annum of the Value of Funds under Management as defined in that Management Agreement, which excluded investments in other funds managed by the Manager payable monthly and calculated as of the last day of the preceding calendar month to which it related.
