Investment Portfolio Review Investments In the year to 30 September 2009 new investments totalled 88 million compared to 114 million in the previous year.
This is the second year running that investment has been made at a comparatively low level.
While the number of potential new deals reviewed during the year has remained at a reasonable level, we declined to pursue the majority of these as in our view the prices being asked did not reflect economic reality.
Indeed, because of the difficulties in judging future levels of profitability and obtaining adequate bank financing, new investment became challenging.
During the year we concentrated on existing portfolio companies with a view to increasing profitability and reducing bank lending ratios.
We have also taken advantage of pricing anomalies in the debt market.
A new special purpose vehicle, Credit Opportunities, was set up to purchase senior debt at a discount.
During the year, 17 million was spent in the purchase of senior debt securities in 14 companies at an average price of 73%, a discount of 27% to nominal value.
In another transaction, 11.5 million nominal value of mezzanine debt in Baxi was purchased at a discount of 65%.
The debt market has moved favourably since these investments have been made.
The most significant investment made during the year was the purchase of a secondary interest in the Steadfast Capital Fund I based in Germany.
The total cost of this secondary investment was 30.8 million and it was acquired at a discount to the local managers valuation.
The portfolio acquired included a significant investment in MPS, a market leader in the manufacture and distribution of abattoir equipment.
MPS accounted for approximately 60% of the total consideration, the remainder of the consideration being spread over a number of further investments.
During the year we In accordance with the strategy of improving existing portfolio investments, we have concentrated on existing commenced a number of initiatives.
In the case of Baxi, we provided support in the portfolio companies with form of a further capital investment of 6.2 million in addition to the mezzanine debt a view to increasing purchase mentioned above, prior to its agreement to combine with fide Dietrich Remeha profitability and reducing to form BDR Thermea.
BDR Thermea will benefit from significant synergies and will bank lending ratios.
have a leading position in the European heating products market.
In the case of Safeland, we repurchased for a nominal consideration the securities sold approximately two years ago for 12.5 million.
A number of further portfolio initiatives remain ongoing which, if successful, will bring benefit in the current year.
Realisations In view of the economic conditions prevailing for much of the year, realisations from the portfolio fell sharply.
Total realisations for the year amounted to 27 million compared with 192 million in the previous year.
Realisations of unlisted investments amounted to only 10 million of which 7.5 million was accounted for by the sale of an investment from a secondary portfolio in France.
Realisations from funds also fell to a low level, with total redemptions during the year falling to just under 5 million, most of which arose from the sale of two investments, one in Argentina and the other in the USA.
During the year, we realised 12 million from the sale of quoted securities including 7.4 million in respect of eTelecare, a company based in the Philippines, originally acquired as part of another investment over 15 years ago.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 Review Investment Portfolio Analysis Investment Portfolio Review Review Performance Over the year to 30 September 2009 Electras investment portfolio declined in value by a net amount of 19 million, a decrease of 3.8%.
The two halves of the financial year were a marked contrast with the decline in the first half year of 78 million offset by an increase in the second half of 59 million.
Most of the performance in the second half came from the listed portfolio which increased in value by 43 million, an increase of 70%, whereas the unlisted portfolio, including direct unlisted, secondaries and funds, increased by 16 million, a percentage increase of 4.0%.
The marked difference in performance between the listed and unlisted portfolios was due to a number of factors.
These include a significant part of the unlisted portfolio being carried at a value which is not directly related to stock market levels and due recognition being given to reduced liquidity where market multiples were applied.
During the financial year the listed portfolio increased in value by 13% after taking account of a 13.3 million decline in the valuation of Candover.
Excluding Candover, the listed portfolio increased by 34% with significant contributions from The combination of Baxi with London & Stamford Property in the UK and Zensar in India, whose value increased fide Dietrich Remeha... gave rise to over the year by 136%.
an increase in value over the year Over the financial year, the unlisted portfolio declined by 7.6%.
The performance of 20.4 million together with an was negatively impacted by Vasanta which was sold at a loss of 29.4 million.
The increase in accrued income of combination of Baxi with fide Dietrich Remeha on the other hand gave rise to an 14.6 million giving an overall increase in value over the year of 20.4 million together with an increase in accrued increase in value of 35 million.
income of 14.6 million giving an overall increase in value of 35 million.
Largest Valuation Changes Company Valuation at Valuation 30 September 2009 Increase Decrease m m % Increases Baxi 41.3 20.4 98 Zensar 15.6 9.0 136 London & Stamford Property 38.0 7.8 26 CH-Pharma 12.7 5.8 83 Allflex 50.7 5.5 12 Supervia 5.5 5.5 Thermocoax 12.5 5.4 76 Decreases Vasanta 29.4 100 Candover 5.4 13.3 71 Capital Safety 6.2 10.0 62 Premier Asset Management 3.3 7.1 68 Amtico 6.5 6.3 49 Bizspace 0.2 5.5 96 14 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Other significant increases included CH-Pharma and Thermocoax where higher profitability was responsible for the valuation increases of 5.8million and 5.4 million respectively, while the increase of 5.5 million of Allflex was due to currency movements.
We also increased the value of Electras investment in Supervia by 5.5 million to reflect the turnaround of an investment previously written off.
Supervia holds the franchise of a commuter railroad in Rio fide Janeiro, which currently has 14 years to run.
After a number of years of financial restructuring, this railroad is now profitable and Electras interest has been revalued accordingly.
Decreases in valuation included Capital Safety and Amtico, which were written down by 10 million and 6.3 million respectively to reflect declines in profitability and Bizspace where the increase in property yields led to a decline in value of 5.5 million.
Electra Partners LLP 7 December 2009 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Review Investment Portfolio Review
