32 Report of the directors Directors and officers 12 34 5 67 8 1.
Lesley Anne MacDonagh 57 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed non-executive Chairman in Appointed non-executive Deputy Appointed an independent nonAppointed an independent non- 2008 Malcolm had previously been Chairman and Senior Independent executive Director in 2006.
Colin is the executive director in 2003, Lesley is a Chief Executive since 1996 and was first Director in 2008, Alastair is nonCommercial Director for Fresh Foods non-executive director of BDO.
She was appointed to the Board of Bovis Homes executive Chairman of the Admiral at Tesco and a member of the Executive previously Managing Partner of Lovells, in 1978.
He is a non-executive director Group plc and Serco Group plc.
Alastair Committee of Tesco PLC.
He joined the international law firm for 10 years, a of the House Builders Federation HBF is also non-executive Chairman of Legal Tesco in 1988 and has wide knowledge Governor of the London School of and the National House Building Marketing Services Limited and of the retail sector and a range Economics, a member of the Court of Council NHBC.
Previously Chief of experience within Tesco itself.
the Solicitors' Company, a member of Executive of the National Provident His previous roles include CEO of Tesco the Government's Property Advisory Institution and the National and Express, Superstores Operations Director Group, the Law Society Council Provincial Building Society, he was also and UK Finance Director.
Member for the City of London and a managing director of the insurance non-executive director of Segro plc.
division of Abbey National plc and director of corporate projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
Martin Trevor Digby Palmer 51 Non-executive Director BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive FCMA, Group Finance Director FCIS, Group Company Secretary Appointed an independent non-executive Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David Joined Bovis Homes in 2007 as Group Joined Bovis Homes in 2001, having director in 2006, John is also a nonwas Group Managing Director from 2007 to Finance Director.
Previously, he was been group company secretary of executive director of Rank Group plc, 2008 and Group Finance Director from employed by Whitbread plc in both London Forfaiting Company PLC from Spectris plc and Uniq plc.
He joined Bovis Homes in group finance and divisional roles and 1997 to 2001 and of London & previously group finance director of WH 1998 as the Group's Financial Controller held positions with Reckitt & Colman Edinburgh Trust PLC from 1994 Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and a and was previously employed by KPMG plc and  to 1997. non-executive director at Arla Foods involved in advising clients on acquisitions, UK plc, BPP Holdings plc, RAC plc and disposals and flotations as well as audits.
