Management and Governance Directors Report Introduction Market risk The Directors present their report together with the audited The Group, through ESL, holds positions in equities which are Financial Statements for The Evolution Group Plc the Company subject to price fluctuation.
There is therefore a risk that ESL will and its subsidiaries Group for the year ended 31 December 2009. suffer a loss in the event of a significant market correction.
Positions are subject to limits which are independently monitored by the risk Parent Company department.
Attached as Section 2 to these Financial Statements, the Parent Company Financial Statements on a standalone basis are provided.
Retention of key staff These Annual Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance The retention of and the ability to attract new staff with the right with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
These accounts will form the basis capabilities and experience is central to the success of the Groups of any future distribution.
The Group mitigates the risk of loss of key staff through its employment policies and remuneration and reward framework.
Principal Activities and Business Review The Group supports the principles set out in the FSAs code of best The Company is a UK listed holding company for UK based financial practice on remuneration policies issued in February 2009.
In services companies which carry out Investment Banking and Private January 2010 shareholders approved the introduction of new long Client activities.
term incentive arrangements designed to further align the interests of key employees with those of shareholders, and to encourage A detailed business review is set out in the Chairmans Statement, medium to long term commitment of senior staff.
Chief Executives Report and Financial Review on pages 7 to 18 and in the notes to these Financial Statements on pages 47 to 74.
A Major infrastructure incident report from the Directors on Corporate Governance is set out on There is a risk that an incident the Group is involved in, directly or pages 28 to 32 and the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 33 indirectly, could cause possible damage to the Groups or key vendors to 40.
All information relating to the principal activities, business infrastructure, which in turn would also affect the Groups reputation review and principal risks can be found below and elsewhere in the or cause financial loss.
The Group has controls in place, including Financial Statements and shall be treated as forming part of this business continuity and disaster recovery plans to maintain the integrity Directors Report by reference.
and efficiency of its systems, while ensuring the sustainability of operations despite a significant disruption.
The Group has a single branch based in Spain which operates under the ESL investment banking umbrella.
Information security The focus on data privacy in the marketplace continues to gain greater Results and Dividends attention as the number and frequency of data privacy related events During the year the Group made a profit after tax from continuing increases.
The FSA issued guidance on how customer personal data operations of 9.2m 2008: loss 11.0m.
should be safeguarded in April 2008.
The Group is currently finalising an internal audit of its data security arrangements to provide a risk The loss for the year ended 31 December 2009 of the Company based, independent assessment of management controls.
This includes amounted to 1.4m 2008: profit 2.2m.
The Directors recommend a review of current policies, procedures and technical and administrative the payment of a final dividend for the year of 1.70p per ordinary controls designed to safeguard personal data.
If approved, the final dividend will make the total dividends for the year 2.50p 2008: 2.02p following the payment Financial crime of the interim dividend of 0.80p per ordinary share on 9 October This is the risk that the Group suffers a loss from fraud.
The dividend is payable on 18 May 2010 to shareholders on be through the deliberate over-riding of internal controls, through the register on 16 April 2010. an external party successfully overcoming the Groups controls e. g. through identity theft or as a result of the Groups remuneration Principal Risks and Uncertainties and reward strategy.
Firms may be at greater risk of financial crime Details of the key risks facing the Group and the controls that have due to the current economic stresses at the individual and corporate been put in place to mitigate them can be found below.
The Group believes that it has sufficient controls in place to mitigate the risk of financial crime including reviews of the current Reputational risk controls in place throughout the Group to ensure controls are robust Reputational risk is the risk of damage to the Groups image as a and to determine where improvements can be made through result of the inability to retain and generate business due to adverse Compliance, Risk and where appropriate Internal Audit.
The Board has established policies and procedures that provide direction on managing reputational risk focusing on reducing loss of confidence amongst existing and potential stakeholders.
22 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Regulatory risk Charitable Donations The Groups principal business subsidiaries are all regulated entities.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 10,520 There is always a risk of regulatory action given the markets in which 2008: 10,121.
The Groups general policy with respect to charitable the Group operates including its Private Clients division which is donations is to donate to causes that are suggested by the Groups expanding its client base and where the FSA is demonstrating an employees, particularly where such staff are taking part in fundraising increasing focus on the fair treatment of customers, staff training and events.
The Group does not set a pre-determined level of charitable corporate governance arrangements.
Furthermore, the increasing donations, retaining the flexibility to respond accordingly to staff focus of regulators on all aspects of financial services companies participation in charitable events.
The amount donated included the activities represents an ongoing risk to all the Groups businesses.
following payments: 5,000 to ACE Africa, 1,500 to the Institute of Cancer Research, 1,000 to each of the following: the NSPCC, The Audit Committee considered whether there had been any material the Grundisburg Ward of the Ipswich Hospital and Parkinsons failings or weaknesses in the internal controls of the Group.
The remaining balance was made up of fide minimis the FSA ARROW visit in September 2008, the governance and amounts donated to various other charities.
committee structures below Board level have been further enhanced.
In Williams fide Bro there is continued focus on treating customers Post Balance Sheet Events fairly TCF and ensuring that suitability of our investment products Details of significant post Balance Sheet events are set out in to our clients can be continuously demonstrated.
This has included note 34 to the Financial Statements.
significant investment in processes and technology during the year.
Directors Risk management policies financial risk management The Directors of the Company, who held office from 1 January 2009 The risk management framework that exists within the Group is up to the date of this report unless otherwise stated, are as shown below: detailed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
The Group Board Appointed Resigned is responsible for approving all risk management policies and for Martin Gray Non-Executive Chairman determining the overall risk appetite for the Group.
The Groups Alex Snow Chief Executive Officer Directors have delegated to a sub-committee, the Risk Committee, Andrew Umbers Executive Director 03.02.10 the responsibility for setting the risk management policies applied by Andrew Westenberger Executive Director 08.04.09 the Group and its subsidiaries.
The purpose of the Risk Committee Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL is to monitor and assess all types of risk within the Group and to Senior Non-Executive ensure that internal controls are properly established so that the Nicholas Irens Non-Executive 31.12.09 Groups risk exposure is commensurate with the wishes of the Board.
Mark Nicholls Non-Executive In addition, the Risk Committee tracks external market events and Peter Gibbs Non-Executive tries to evaluate their impact on the Group.
The Risk Committee Christopher Chambers Non-Executive 03.11.09 meets regularly and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
The Risk Roger Perkin Non-Executive 27.01.10 Department has day-to-day responsibility for monitoring, mitigating and reporting risks within the Group and for escalating issues to Details of those Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General senior management.
The Risk Department follows the guidelines Meeting and details of Directors service agreements can be found laid down by the Credit Policy, the Credit Limit Book, the Trading in the Corporate Governance Report.
The interests of Directors in Policy Statement and the Operational Risk Policy as approved by shares and options are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration the Group Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
The Treasury Department is responsible for hedging foreign exchange risk and for managing liquidity.
The Group Board receives a monthly There are no transactions or arrangements in which the Directors risk report detailing market and credit risk exposures, operational have a direct or indirect material interest other than in respect of risk incidents and losses and key risk indicators.
the investment agreement entered into between the Group and First Eastern for the disposal of ESCL.
Following the acquisition of a Capital adequacy and liquidity risk majority ownership by First Eastern, Alex Snow continues to serve Details regarding the Groups capital adequacy can be found in on the Board of ESCL in a Non-Executive capacity.
its Pillar 3 disclosures at www.
The Group has a strong and liquid Balance Sheet with no debt and a significant excess of capital.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Management and Governance Directors Report continued Creditors Payment Policy It is Group policy that no employee or applicant for employment It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions receives less favourable treatment including training and development, for its transactions with suppliers by means ranging from standard recruitment and promotion by the Group or any other employee, on terms and conditions to individually negotiated contracts.
Suppliers the grounds of sex, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, are paid according to agreed terms and conditions, provided that sexual orientation, political opinion, religion, age or disability.
It is the supplier meets those terms and conditions.
The accounts payable policy that persons in or applying for employment are not disadvantaged function for the Group and Company is carried out by a Group by conditions, management attitudes, behaviour or requirements that Company, Evolution Group Services Limited.
Average trade creditor cannot be justified.
There are established whistle blowing procedures days for the Group as at the year end was 34 days 2008: 27 days.
for individuals to report suspected breaches of law or regulations or other improprieties.
Employees The average and actual number of employees, including Directors, Substantial Shareholdings employed by the Group and their remuneration is disclosed in note As at 19 March 2010 being a date not more than one month prior 10 to the Financial Statements, with key management compensation to the date of the notice of the Annual General Meeting other than disclosed in note 35 to the Financial Statements.
the interests of the Directors, the notified share and voting rights in excess of three percent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Employment Policies Company including under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Group aims to create a partnership culture across all subsidiaries were as follows: by maintaining a commitment to establishing appropriate forums Number of shares for employees to be involved in decision making across the business, or voting rights by communicating changes in an appropriate manner and by Shareholder Name over shares held Holding % establishing appropriate reward frameworks that enable employees BlackRock Inc. 27,820,596 11.99% to benefit in the overall success of the Company.
The introduction Aberforth Partners Llp 17,109,242 7.54% of new long term incentive arrangements for senior employees linked Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 16,687,713 7.19% to the value creation in the subsidiary in which an individual works Lansdowne Partners Limited 11,305,306 4.98% will support the ongoing development of this culture and mindset.
Schroders 10,941,194 4.72% In addition, all employees are offered the opportunity to participate Universities Superannuation Scheme 10,374,100 4.47% in equity ownership through the Employees Share Ownership Plan Artemis Investment Management Limited 10,026,533 4.41% ESOP which allows every employee to purchase up to 1,500 Legal & General Group Plc 8,940,397 3.94% worth of the Companys shares per annum on a tax efficient basis.
The Group supports the principles set out in the FSAs code of best Share Capital practice on remuneration policies.
Details of the changes in authorised and issued share capital during the year of the Company are set out in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
The extent to which our success of creating the desired partnership culture is measured by labour turnover and stability index the % In 2009 the Group made market purchases of its own shares only for of employees who were employed at the start of the year against the the purpose of acquiring shares for The Evolution Group Plc Employees end of the year.
Labour turnover reduced from 22.2% in 2008 to Share Trust the Trust to settle outstanding awards under its share 19.7% in 2009.
Our aim is to maintain turnover at the 20% level.
The Group did not purchase any of its own Our stability index increased from 80% in 2008 to 82% in 2009 and shares for cancellation in 2009 or up to the date of this report.
as part of embedding the partnership culture throughout the Group, our aim is to see this increase in 2010.
The average length of service Authority for the Company to Purchase its Own Shares across the Group is three years which we also hope to increase as Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may our culture begins to promote the long term retention of employees.
purchase its own shares, in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 0.50 and All employees are subject to ongoing performance reviews to drive the maximum price payable is 105% of the average middle market employee productivity throughout the year.
Regular assessment quotations for the five business days preceding the purchase.
At the provides an opportunity to ensure employee engagement is maximised Annual General Meeting held on 19 May 2009, members approved with two way feedback on issues and ideas.
In sourcing the right the Companys authority to make market purchases on the London candidates for the Company, full and fair consideration is given to Stock Exchange of up to 22,400,000 ordinary shares of 1p each applications for employment that are made to the Group by disabled Shares of the Company 2008: 22,300,000, representing less persons, it endeavours to continue the employment of and arrange than 10%, 2008: 9.97% of the issued share capital of the Company appropriate training for, any of our employees who have become at 2 April 2009. disabled during their period of employment with us or otherwise will provide the training and career development and promotion of disabled persons we employ as needs require.
24 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements The authority given by members at the last Annual General Annual General Meeting Meeting for the Company to purchase its own shares expires on All resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be 31 August 2010 or, if earlier, at the next Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2010 appear in the separate notice of meeting sent at which a similar resolution will be proposed under the Companies to all shareholders with a Form of Proxy.
Such resolutions will include Act 2006.
The Directors believe that it is in the best interests of business to renew the authority of the Directors to allot shares and the Company for the authority to be renewed at the forthcoming to dis-apply pre-emption rights.
Annual General Meeting for a period which shall expire at the end of 15 months from the date of the meeting or, if earlier, at the next The Companys statement on Corporate Governance is included Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, it is intended to propose, in the Corporate Governance report on pages 28 to 32. as Special Business, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a Special Resolution to renew the Directors existing authority to Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares purchase shares of the Company, which shall be limited to 10% The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided 2008: 9.97% of the issued share capital of 232,114,263 at 25 March into ordinary shares of 1p each.
with such rights or restrictions as the Company may decide by ordinary resolution of its shareholders.
On a show of hands, every Purchase of Shares by The Evolution Group Plc Employees member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll every Share Trust the Trust member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for The Evolution Group Plc Employees Share Trust the Trust every share of which he or she is the holder.
Proxies may vote on a administers The Evolution Group Plc share schemes and the Share show of hands.
Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting Incentive Trust and is managed by Capita Trustees Limited.
rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2010 are set out in the Notice The Trust purchased, in the financial year ended 31 December of Meeting and accompanying Form of Proxy.
The shares were The Company may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be purchased to satisfy outstanding awards under the Groups share paid to the members and may pay interim dividends and any fixed based incentive schemes.
rate dividend, as appear to them to be justified by the profits of the Company.
If the Company is in liquidation, the liquidator may The total amount purchased representing 6.88% of the Companys divide among the members in specie the whole or any part of the issued share capital as at 31 December 2009 2008: 0.67%, was for assets of the Company, or vest any part of the assets in trustees upon an aggregate consideration of 23,700,000 2008: 1,607,000. such trusts for the benefit of members as the liquidator, with this The shares were purchased to satisfy outstanding awards under the authority, sees fit.
Groups share based incentive schemes.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any Further, the Company has in the financial year ending 31 December reason, decline to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated 2010, up to the date of this report, purchased an aggregate of 4,200,000 share which is not a fully paid share or on which the Company has shares having a nominal value of 42,000 for an aggregate consideration a lien.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be of 5,600,000.
These shares were also purchased to satisfy outstanding refused where permitted by the relevant legislation.
awards under the Groups share based incentive schemes.
Directors shall be no less than 2 and no more than 15 and may be At 31 December 2009, the Trust held 14,100,000 2008: 9,500,000 appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
shares with a cost of 20,300,000 2008: 13,000,000 and a market The Company may by extraordinary resolution or by ordinary value of 18,900,000 2008: 8,200,000.
All of these shares were resolution of which special notice has been given remove, and the acquired in the open market.
The shares held represent 6.06% Board may by unanimous decision, remove any Director before 2008: 4.25% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be 31 December 2009.
The Trust used funds provided by the Company vacated if not being an Executive Director whose contract precludes to meet the Groups obligations under the share option and incentive resignation he resigns, becomes bankrupt, has a receiving order schemes in place.
Share options are granted to employees at the made against him, he becomes of unsound mind, if he is absent from discretion of the Company and shares are awarded to employees by meetings of the Directors for six months without leave, if he is removed the Trust in accordance with the recommendations of the Company.
or becomes prohibited from being a Director or if he is requested in writing by all the other Directors to resign his office.
The business of The total number of shares, both allocated and unallocated, are the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise the disclosed in note 29.
All shares in the Trust are held to satisfy the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys Companys obligations in respect of share options and call rights Memorandum of Association, the Articles of Association, relevant granted.
legislation and any extraordinary resolution of the Company.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 25 Management and Governance Directors Report continued In accordance with the rules of the Trust Deed relating to the Trust, Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the trustees shall be obliged to waive all voting rights in connection the Biography section of this report, are set out on pages 20 to 21 with shares held in the Trust save where they are held by the trustees confirm that to the best of their knowledge: as bare trustees on behalf of beneficiaries.
the Company and the Group Financial Statements, which have Statement of Directors Responsibilities been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in and results of the Group and the Company: and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements and the Company, together with a description of the principal for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of by the European Union.
The Financial Statements are required by the Group website, www.
Legislation in the UK governing law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that in preparing the Groups Financial Directors Disclosures of Information to the Auditors Statements on pages 42 to 74 that they have: United Kingdom company law Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 requires each Director to make an individual statement regarding selected suitable accounting policies and applied them the disclosure of information to the auditors.
The statement must consistently: confirm that as at the date of this report and as far as the Director is made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that the Director has taken all the steps stated that the Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as he ought to have taken in order to make himself aware of any relevant adopted by the European Union: and audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are prepared the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, aware of that information.
A Director is deemed to have taken all unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue the steps necessary that he ought to have taken if he has made such in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions enquiries of his fellow Directors and of the Companys auditors for or qualifications as necessary.
that purpose, and taken such other steps, if any, for that purpose as are required by his duty as a Director of the Company to exercise The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency due care, skill and diligence.
All of the Directors of the Company as Rules of the Financial Services Authority to include a management at the date of this report have provided such a statement to the Company.
report containing a fair review of the business and a description of The Companys auditors have been advised that confirmation has the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
been given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
26 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 01 Business Review 02 Management and Governance 03 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Because of this review, the Audit Committee recommended to the The Group has appointed  LLP PwC as Board that the auditors be re-elected and a resolution to re-appoint auditors of the Parent Company and all material subsidiaries since them as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming 2001.
During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the cost Annual General Meeting.
effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditors in the light of assurances received relating to their internal quality and PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and control procedures, the promptness and accuracy of their work and pursuant to section 485 of the Companies Act 2006, an ordinary other services obtained from their firm.
The Audit Committee as a resolution re-appointing them as auditors and authorising the matter of principle will not award non-audit work to the auditors Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the unless it is satisfied, following enquiry, that the provision of such 2010 Annual General Meeting.
services would not prejudice the independence and objectivity of the audit.
The auditors disclosed the level of fees received in respect of BY ORDER OF THE BOARD the various services provided by their firm in addition to audit during 2009.
They confirmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that the level of non-audit fees had affected their independence.
Tony Lee The Audit Committee is responsible for implementing a policy for Company Secretary the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
25 March 2010 The most appropriate advisers are used for non-audit work taking Registered number: 03359425 account of the need to maintain independence.
The Group does not maintain a policy of regular fixed-term rotation of auditors.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the Group will typically use the auditors for other work that they are well placed to undertake in that role.
This includes areas such as: regulatory reviews and other ancillary audit work: work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: and tax compliance.
Several firms are considered for other work, including the auditors in some instances.
In such cases due consideration is given to the impact of the assignment on the independence of the auditors and to their qualifications to carry out the role.
The Board were satisfied that PwC had sufficient controls in place to guard against any possible conflicts of interest and to ensure the objectivity and independence of the audit.
PwC were chosen in the interests of cost effectiveness, efficiency and timeliness.
Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the auditors, and after careful discussion with the responsible partner in PwC and the Executive Directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the statutory auditors.
The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 27
