F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 22 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our financial performance Total return growth potential of the business.
While we experienced We view share price total return including dividends as a net outflows during 2009, continuing the trend in prior key performance measure.
Our total shareholder return for years, our outflows have tended to be in lower fee margin the year ended 31 December 2009 was 42.5%.
In the areas, such as insurance and legacy institutional business.
same period, the total shareholder return on the FTSE 250 index was 50.7% and the FTSE100 was 27.4%.
Revenue margin Our revenue margin, measured as our net management fee Strategic background income divided by average assets under management, 2009 was a year of considerable volatility in financial decreased from 22.9 basis points in 2008 to 21.8 basis markets: the FTSE 100 index opened the year at 4,434, points in 2009.
However our total net fee margin, including subsequently falling to a low of 3,512 on 3 March, before performance fees, rose marginally from 23.7 basis points in recovering sharply to close the year at 5,413.
Despite this 2008 to 23.8 basis points in 2009.
There are three recovery, it is worth noting that the average level of the principal reasons for this.
Firstly, a number of insurance FTSE 100 during 2009 was some 15% lower than the prior clients reduced their risk appetite during 2009 and year.
Accordingly, we positioned the business to withstand switched investments to lower risk asset classes: while a sustained decline in market levels, which, for an asset certain insurance mandates operate on a composite fee manager, directly impacts revenues and profitability.
rate, irrespective of the underlying asset classes, in some However, despite the reduction in average market levels cases, the management fees we earn for insurance clients and the constraints on our ability to gather new institutional are asset class specific, with lower fees being earned on assets arising from the continued corporate uncertainty certain fixed income assets.
Secondly, during 2009 we during the first half of the year, our net revenues of renegotiated fee structures with several clients, agreeing a 225.1m fell by only 2.1% from 2008 levels, benefitting lower base management fee but introducing performance from the full year impact of the acquisition of REIT Asset fee arrangements.
Thirdly, as previously noted, investment Management REIT in 2008.
While the adverse market performance was strong throughout 2009, resulting in a conditions encountered in 2008 and early 2009 significant increase in performance fees earned.
necessitated cost reductions, we targeted these measures carefully to avoid disrupting our distribution and investment Operating expenses capabilities.
This has positioned us to benefit from Our operating expenses, excluding amortisation of improved investor sentiment during 2010. intangible assets, the impact of unrealised gains and losses on forward currency contracts and exceptional items, were Presentation of financial results 164.8m in 2009, compared to 171.0m in 2008.
After International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS require excluding exchange gains and losses, which are our financial statements to consolidate the results of our substantially outwith the control of management, our managed pension funds business on a line-by-line basis, operating expenses were 166.6m in 2009, compared to impacting the presentation of both our Income Statement 172.3m in 2008, a reduction of some 5.7m.
However, and Statement of Financial Position.
Our managed this headline movement masks reductions in core pension funds business provides certain clients with asset operating costs of some 12.4m, partially offset by the full management services inside an insurance product year impact 6.7m of the cost base added through the wrapper.
The requirement to consolidate this business has acquisition of REIT in Q3 2008. a significant effect on the financial investments and investment contract liability captions included in our One of the key costs for an asset management business is Statement of Financial Position, the risks of which are remuneration costs, which are correlated to personnel substantially borne by the clients of this business.
At 31 December 2009, our headcount, on a fulladdition, our Statement of Financial Position includes some time equivalent basis, was 868, compared to 933 at 31 27.7m of cash also attributable to policyholders of this December 2008.
In addition, the profile of our variable business and which is not available for corporate purposes.
remuneration has altered in line with market conditions, with the discretionary cash bonus pool reduced by some 20%.
Net revenue Net revenue for the year was 225.1m 2008: 229.9m.
During 2009, we incurred a number of exceptional This included 18.7m 2008: 7.9m of performance fee operating costs, which are excluded from our underlying income, reflecting the strong investment performance results.
These comprise exceptional employment costs, achieved across asset classes in 2009.
While new corporate advisory costs, onerous lease provisions, client business of 3.5 billion, excluding insurance flows, was compensation costs and other provisions.
funded during the year, this was more than offset by outflows of 7.2 billion and net insurance outflows of 2.2 Exceptional employment costs of 6.1m principally billion.
The combination of improved market levels, partially represent amounts payable to former employees on offset by adverse exchange rate variances, added a net termination of employment.
The majority of these costs 5.1 billion to our assets under management during 2009. were incurred to reduce headcount and generate cost savings in 2009 and beyond.
Net funds flows and related annualised revenues represent a key performance indicator and are indicative of the F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 23 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Corporate advisory costs of 2.6m represent project and significant proportion of the Groups revenues are earned in advisory costs incurred in separating the company from Euros.
As disclosed in last years annual report and Friends Provident, together with professional advisers' financial statements, during 2008 the Company entered costs incurred until 31 December 2009 in connection with into a series of forward currency contracts to partially potential acquisitions.
hedge Euro denominated cash flows.
While a number of the contracts expired in 2008 and 2009, the final contract During 2009, the tenant in one of the Groups sub-let matures in H1 2010.
IFRS requires that open contracts are premises sought to exercise a break clause in their lease revalued at year end exchange rates.
This revaluation and vacate the premises.
As it was economically beneficial resulted in an unrealised gain being recognised in the 2009 to retain that tenant rather than seek to market the vacant Income Statement in respect of forward currency contracts premises, additional rental inducements of some 2.5m which mature in 2010.
As this contract protects 2010 cash were granted to the existing tenant.
Given both the flows, the unrealised gain of 1.2m has been excluded quantum plus the fact that this lease was acquired with a from 2009 underlying earnings.
historical corporate acquisition rather than relating to premises occupied by the Group, the resulting impact has In addition, during 2009, exchange losses of some 1.8m been treated as exceptional.
were incurred, comprising a gain of 5.9m on forward currency contracts which matured during the year offset by The exceptional client compensation expense of 2.5m a 4.1m exchange loss on the retranslation of assets and represents the potential cost to the Company of amounts liabilities held in foreign currencies.
As these amounts do reimbursable to a client as a result of breach of their not reflect the ongoing profitability of the business, they investment mandate.
This provision relates to a single have been excluded from underlying earnings.
event in respect of one client, attributable to a unique set of circumstances.
REIT acquisition Under the terms of the acquisition of REIT disclosed in last As previously disclosed, the Company has received a put year's annual report, the vendors of REIT currently own option notice from both founder members of F&C Partners 30% of F&C REIT, the property business created on the LLP Partners, the Groups majority owned fund of hedge merger of F&Cs property asset management business with funds business.
These options seek to require the REIT.
In certain circumstances, the REIT vendors can Company to purchase the individuals interest in Partners.
require F&C to purchase their interests in F&C REIT at The Company vigorously denies the validity of the put future dates and, under IFRS, a liability for this potential option notices under the Partnership Agreement but, to obligation is included in our financial statements.
As this date has incurred some 4.1m of exceptional legal and option requires to be carried at its fair value, representing provisioning expenses in respect of this matter.
30% of the value of F&C REIT, it is revalued each year, with any revaluation gain or loss reflected in the Income During 2007, the Company provided for potential sums Statement.
During 2009, this revaluation resulted in a gain due to investment trust clients in respect of historical VAT of 5.6m being included in the 2009 Income Statement.
Related discussions and negotiations with clients This gain is excluded from underlying earnings.
have now been completed and the net excess provision of 2.5m has been released.
As the cost of this provision In addition to the arrangements described above, the REIT was treated as an exceptional item, the release has also vendors have the opportunity to increase their ownership been treated as an exceptional item.
interest from 30% to 40%, should F&C REIT achieve certain stretching financial targets over agreed periods.
For Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets accounting purposes, the valuation of the option provided Under IFRS, when an acquisition is made, there is a by the earn-out mechanism is treated as a share-based requirement to recognise separately the fair value attributed payment expense and included in the Income Statement.
to intangible assets, in our case, management contracts.
The 2009 expense of 3.7m has been excluded from The excess of consideration over the fair value of net underlying earnings, consistent with the treatment adopted assets acquired represents the business value and in 2008. infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Underlying earnings Management contracts are separated by client type and The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an its key metrics in assessing financial performance.
The indicator of impairment occurs, such as greater than reconciliation between underlying earnings and statutory anticipated fund losses, we are required to review the earnings is provided in note 11 to the consolidated financial carrying value of these contracts.
Underlying earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2009 were 5.8p 2008: 7.6p No such indicators of impairment arose during 2009 and excluding the impact of all foreign exchange gains and accordingly no impairment charges were recognised.
losses and 4.6p 2008: 7.8p after the inclusion of realised exchange gains and losses.
The decline principally relates We are also required to conduct an annual impairment to the reduction in finance revenue discussed below under review of the carrying value of goodwill.
demonstrated that there was no impairment and hence no requirement to write down goodwill.
Foreign exchange A large proportion of the Groups business is conducted outside the UK and consequently, the Group has significant exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
The main areas which are potentially exposed to exchange rate fluctuations are our revenues and our assets and liabilities.
Approximately 55% of the Groups assets under management are denominated in Euros and, accordingly, a F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 24 Business Review Our financial performance Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Dividends Our dividend policy is to achieve at least 150% cover on underlying earnings, and where possible, to grow the dividend.
As set out above, our underlying earnings for the year were 5.8p per share.
An interim dividend of 2p per share was paid during the year.
After a review of the results for the year, the market conditions that prevailed during the year and the business outlook for 2010, the Board has declared an unchanged final dividend of 4p per share.
This dividend, together with the interim dividend, will result in a total dividend for the year of 6p per share, a level in excess of underlying earnings.
Future dividend levels will be set in light of financial results and the business and economic outlook.
Cash resources The Company has gross debt of some 265m 2008: 295m.
During the year, the Group completed an exchange offer for a proportion of its subordinated loan notes.
As a result of that offer, the Company acquired 135m of its subordinated loan notes in exchange for the issue of 2016 senior loan notes.
The difference between the nominal value of the senior loan notes issued and the nominal value of the subordinated loan notes repurchased, net of costs, represents a gain of 27.9m, which, under IFRS, is recognised in the Income Statement.
This gain has been excluded from underlying earnings.
As part of the exchange offer, the Company also raised an additional 25m which was used to partially redeem the loan notes issued as part of the REIT acquisition.
At 31 December 2009, the Group's borrowings therefore comprise 125m of remaining subordinated loan notes, some 130m of senior loan notes, and 10m of REIT vendor loan notes.
Neither the subordinated loan notes nor the senior loan notes include any financial covenants.
At 31 December 2009, the Group held cash resources of 213.9, of which some 27.7m relates to policyholders and is not available for corporate purposes.
A significant portion of cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements.
As asset management is a cash generative business, we should not require significant cash for working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital requirements.
Interest profile The majority of our borrowings carry fixed rates of interest.
The subordinated loan notes currently bear interest at 6.75% and the senior loan notes carry a fixed 9% interest rate.
Our cash resources earn interest based on bank deposit rates.
As interest rates reached a record low during the year, bank deposit rates were significantly lower during 2009 than in the prior year.
Bank interest income accordingly declined from 9.8m in 2008 to 1.8m in 2009.
In addition, during 2008 we also received other investment income of 2.1m, whereas no such income was received in 2009.
