F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 27 Governance Company Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Company Directors Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Nick MacAndrew FCA Kieran Poynter FCA Gerhard Roggemann Ass.
iur Alain Grisay Age 63 Age 59 Age 62 Age 55 Chairman Independent Director Independent Director Chief Executive Mr MacAndrew, a Chartered Accountant, Mr Poynter joined the Board in June 2009.
Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June Mr Grisay joined the Board in October joined the Board in May 2007 and was Prior to his appointment, Mr Poynter was 2007 as an Independent Director.
He is 2004 having previously been Deputy Chief appointed Chairman in May 2009.
He Chairman and Senior Partner of currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Executive of F&CGH and head of the worked for Schroders plc for over  LLP having Partners Europe and an independent institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C 30 years until 2002, latterly as finance spent 37 years with the firm.
He is a director of Resolution Limited and Friends in April 2001, Mr Grisay was at JP director.
He is a Non-executive Director of Director of Nomura plc.
He is Chairman of Morgan for 20 years, serving as Managing Fuller Smith & Turner plc, Jardine Lloyd the Supervisory Board of G P Guenter Director responsible for the investment Thompson Group plc and Wates Group Papenburg AG and Deputy Chairman of banks market client business in Europe.
Brian Larcombe Limited and chairs the audit committees the Deutsche Brse AG.
He spent much Age 56 of each of these companies.
He was of his professional career with financial Independent Director David Logan previously Chairman of Save the Children.
Age 40 Mr Larcombe joined the Board in January Chief Financial Officer Jeff Medlock B. Sc Econ, FIA Keith Bedell-Pearce CBE, LLB, MSc 2005.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Age 69 Age 64 Larcombe was Chief Executive of 3i Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July Senior Independent Director Group plc and is currently a Non- 2006.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Logan executive Director of Smith & Nephew spent seventeen years in the accounting Mr Medlock joined the Board in October Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the plc, Gategroup Holding AG and Incisive profession, including four years as a 2004.
Mr Medlock was Chief Executive Board in December 2002.
Until December Media Holdings Limited.
partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP and Officer of Eureko from its formation in 2001, Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Executive three years as a partner at Andersen.
1992 until 1999 when he became Chief Director of Prudential plc with over Financial Officer at Achmea.
He returned 30 years experience in the financial to the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly services industry.
He is the former after its merger with Achmea and Seguros Chairman of The Student Loans e Pensoes as Chief Financial Officer until Company Limited Directgov and the his retirement in 2004.
He is also a trustee Norwich & Peterborough Building Society.
of the childrens charity Coram Life He is currently Chairman of 4D Data Education.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Member of the Nomination Committee
