F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 10 Business Review This is F&C Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n The Board has prepared this review on pages 10 to 26 in accordance with the requirements of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and it forms part of the Directors Report.
The law requires the Companys auditors to report on whether the This is information given in the Directors Report and Business Review is consistent with the financial statements.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on page 47.
F&C The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a snapshot summary setting out the business objectives of the Company, the Boards strategy to achieve those objectives, the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance indictors KPIs used to measure performance.
What we do Our objective F&Cs sole activity is asset management.
We are not a Our objective is simple: to create value by delivering first bank.
We are not an insurance company.
We are an active quartile performance in everything our clients expect international investor with a client focus on the UK and from us.
We operate across multiple locations, with a physical presence in eleven countries.
Our organisational philosophy has two key parameters to seek to avoid duplication by, for example, managing each asset class from only one location, and to place client service functions where appropriate in order to meet client requirements.
Our offices Dorking Edinburgh Boston Dublin Amsterdam Stockholm Lisbon Hong Kong London Frankfurt Paris Geneva Mumbai F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 11 Business Review This is F&C Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our clients Responsible investments Our clients comprise a wide range of insurance, We seek to deliver strong investment performance through institutional and retail investors, across multiple active management.
However, as a shareholder geographies and jurisdictions, for whom we manage a representative, we seek to engage with the companies in diverse spread of investments including equities, fixed which we invest, aiming to enhance and protect long-term income, property and alternative asset classes.
Our approach is to have constructive dialogue with companies.
We cast votes on shareholder resolutions globally, and disclose this to our clients on our website.
How we manage money Key risks see page 13 With over 230 investment professionals, F&C has one of In addition to the normal risks facing the business relating the largest investment teams in Europe.
Our scale gives us to the market, interest rates and foreign currency, the a competitive edge in research resources and access to Board has identified the following as the key risks facing the most senior management at major companies.
We the business: believe individuals work best as part of a small, focused Deterioration in the world economies team.
Our investment professionals are therefore organised Failure of the Groups operational platforms into dedicated teams, focused on specific products or Weaknesses within the front office control processes market segments.
We provide them with a high degree of Loss of key clients autonomy over their investment process.
We do this in Loss of key employees order to foster a strong culture of enterprise and accountability for delivering performance.
This approach of being both large in terms of resource, but entrepreneurial in structure is what we describe as a multi-specialist fund management model.
Assets under management by client category Assets under management by asset class at 31 December bn at 31 December bn 2008 2009 bn bn 2008 2009 1 Insurance Funds 57.0 57.2 bn bn 2 Institutional Funds 28.6 27.7 1 Fixed Interest 60.6 58.3 3 Sub-Advisory 4.8 4.0 2 Equities 24.3 24.8 4 Investment Trusts 4.9 5.1 3 Property 7.9 8.0 5 OEICs UK Onshore Mututal Funds 2.2 2.5 4 Other Alternative Investments 2.4 1.6 6 SICAVs Mutual Funds 1.1 1.3 5 Money Market 3.4 5.1 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 12 Business Review This is F&C Bu Busi sin ness ess Rev Reviiew ew Go Gov ver ern nan ance ce F Fiin nan anci cial al S St tat atemen ement ts s S Sh har areh eho ollder der IIn nfo for rmat matiio on n Executive Management Alain Grisay David Logan Nick Criticos Fernando Ribeiro Cristobal Mendez fide Vigo Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive, F&C REIT Head of Advisory and Head of Distribution and Asset Management Strategic Relationships Business Development Richard Wilson Jacob deWit Head of Equities Head of Fixed Income Executive Directors and Executive Committee Messrs Grisay and Logan are the Executive Directors of the Examples of matters reserved for EXECOM as delegated authorities from the Board: Company.
These Executive Directors, together with Messrs The approval of day-to-day business issues linked to the Criticos, deWit, Mendez fide Vigo, Ribeiro and Wilson form strategy or the annual budget and including the launch of the Executive Committee EXECOM.
accountable and responsible for implementing Board Approval of contractual commitments.
strategy, proposing development of new elements of Approval of expenditure and the management of any strategy and for the day-to-day running of the business.
In issue that could have a potential legal or reputational addition to overseeing the implementation of the strategy, impact on the Group.
EXECOM regularly reviews business issues and matters not reserved for the Board as a whole.
EXECOM has reserved lists to assist it in carrying out its functions.
2009 Key Awards Gold Standard Award winners of the Fund Management category for fourth successive year recognises excellence in overall capabilities, client service, trust and value form money Incisive Media, November 2009 European Socially Responsible Investment Programme of the Year identified as the market leader for engagement on Environmental, Social & Governance matters Funds Europe magazine December 2009 Best Child Trust Provider and Best Performing Fund in a CTF Higher Risk Category Moneywise magazine 2009 Lipper Fund Awards, 2009 Category winner F&C European High Yield Bond Fund Lipper Fund Awards 2009 in Switzerland, Netherlands, Nordics and Germany Investment Trust of the Year Awards 2009 Category winner F&C US Smaller Companies PLC Investment Week, 2009 Investment, Life & Pensions Moneyfacts Awards Best Investment Trust Provider ILP Moneyfacts Awards, 2009 September 2009 Top 50 Call Centres for Customer Service CCF magazine Ranked First Place Award for Operational Excellence, UK Customer Experience Awards CSN
