F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 28 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Report of the Directors Results, business review and dividend 840 of ICTA 1988, then the investment trust is entitled to The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2009 terminate the agreement on not less than 3 months notice are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page to expire at the end of any calendar month.
A business review of the year ended 31 December 2009 and future developments are covered on pages 10 to F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 26.
This review, together with the Directors Report on The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C Corporate Governance on pages 33 to 38, forms part of Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the Report of the Directors.
the investment trust on not less than six months notice.
Early termination can be undertaken by the investment The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to 18.7 trust, but only subject to the payment of compensation to million.
Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in the event that there is a The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 4.0 change of control in F&C as defined in Section 840 of ICTA pence per share, amounting to 19.5 million, resulting in a 1988 which has not been consented to by its Board.
total of 6.0 pence and 29.2 million for the year.
Preference dividends of 8,200 were also incurred during the year.
F&C Partners LLP the LLP The F&C Partners Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on dated 3 December 2004, is between F&C Alternative 7 May 2010 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on Investments Holdings Limited and the two individual the register on 26 March 2010.
No liability for the proposed Founder Members.
dividends has been recognised as at 31 December 2009, in accordance with IFRS.
The LLP Agreement provides that in the event of a change of control of F&C, F&C Alternative Investments Holdings Limited has the right within three months of such change of Principal activity and status control to declare to the individual members that such The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the change of control is a trigger event.
Upon the declaration of progress of the business during the year and of future a trigger event, the individual members of the LLP have no prospects are contained in the Chairmans Statement, the right to require the Company to purchase their interests for Chief Executives Report and the Business Review.
Following the expiry of this twelve month period, the individual members have a period The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in of three months during which they can choose to require terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a the Company to purchase their interests.
constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, registered number 73508 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
F&C REIT Asset Management LLP The F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained Liability Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is in note 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There between F&C Asset Management plc F&C, the two are also five branch offices in the Group outside the UK, in individual members and a separate company controlled by The Netherlands, France, Germany, Ireland and Sweden.
Significant agreements Where there is a change of control of F&C following 3 In addition to the significant management contracts with September 2011 or a second change of control during the Friends Provident plc and the Achmea Group, details of first three years from 3 September 2008, F&C can elect to which are contained in Note 42 to the Consolidated change the arrangements for voting at LLP members Financial Statements, F&C is party to the following meetings such that F&Cs interests are represented by one significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate vote and the REIT Parties aggregate interests are upon a change of control of the Company.
If F&C does not so elect, then F&C must offer to sell its interests to the other members of Millennium BCP Group BCP the LLP at a price determined by an independent valuer.
The consequences of termination of the various agreements with BCP related funds are regulated by an Property, plant and equipment Umbrella Agreement with BCP which provides that Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are compensation is payable if any of these agreements are disclosed in note 13 to the Consolidated Financial terminated before 29 June 2013.
At 31 December 2009, there were no be terminated on written notice with immediate effect in the significant differences between the net book and market event that a person acquires an interest which is larger values of property, plant and equipment.
than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko in the shares of F&C.
Under such circumstances, compensation is payable by BCP to F&C based on Financial instruments prescribed compensation periods which in turn are linked Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 15 to when the change of control takes place.
and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc Group are contained in note 38.
The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated Share capital and directors interests by the investment trust on a minimum of six months notice During the year the Company issued 3,547,806 ordinary expiring at the end of any calendar month.
In the event that shares in respect of vested awards or options under the there is a change of control in F&C as defined in Section Companys long term incentive schemes.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 29 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Details of shares under option at 31 December 2009 are Disabled employees shown on pages 94 to 101.
Details of all shares issued The Group gives full consideration to applications for during the year ended 31 December 2009, are given in note employment from disabled persons where the 33.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a interests in the share capital of the Company are shown handicapped or disabled person.
below: Where existing employees become disabled, it is the 31 31 December December Groups policy wherever practicable to provide continuing 2009 2008 employment under normal terms and conditions and to Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares provide training, career development and promotion to Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 25,000 25,000 disabled employees wherever possible.
Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 Alain Grisay Beneficial 1,304,847 1,386,094 Employee involvement Non Beneficial 64,176 Nil During the year, the policy of providing employees with Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 20,000 information about the Group has been continued through David Logan Beneficial 95,485 2,218 Non Beneficial 64,176 Nil internal presentations by the Executive Directors and Jeff Medlock Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Executive Committee and the internal publication of Kieran Poynter Beneficial 30,000 Nil relevant information.
Wherever appropriate, employees are Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil consulted to ensure that their views are taken into account before decisions are taken which are likely to affect their Alain Grisay and David Logan are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the interests.
acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees.
Or date of appointment if later.
These shares include Mr Grisays participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
Further details of this Equal opportunities plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45.
The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, Directors and officers liability marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of recruit and promote those best suited for the job.
The directors and officers liability.
Group respects the dignity of individuals and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision set mental harassment of staff in the work place.
out in the Companys Articles of Association at article 166 which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as Share incentive schemes defined in the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, employees participated directly in the business through a number of Employee Share Schemes, Charitable and political contributions details of which are included within the Directors During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45 or the notes to 86,000 2008: 139,000.
No political donations were the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 94 to 101. made during the year 2008: nil.
Further details on the criteria for charitable giving are contained on the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM website.
The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 4 May 2010 at The Gibson Hall, 13 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3BA.
Payment policy and practice The meeting will start at 11 a. m. UK time.
Details of all It is the Groups policy to ensure settlement of suppliers resolutions being put to shareholders are set out in the accounts in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain Notice of Annual General Meeting commencing on page 139. circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to any business taking place.
It is our policy to abide by those Board changes terms.
On 7 May 2009, Robert Jenkins, the Companys former Chairman and Dick fide Beus, an independent NonAt 31 December 2009, trade creditors represented the executive Director, retired from the Board.
equivalent of 6 days 2008: 5 days of the annual purchases Coincident with the demerger of Friends Provident plc on invoiced by the suppliers to the Group.
3 July 2009, Sir Adrian Montague and Trevor Matthews, both of whom were Friends Providents nominated shareholder representatives, retired from the Board.
Substantial interests in share capital The Company has been informed of the following On 1 June 2009, Kieran Poynter and Roger Yates joined substantial interests, above 3 per cent.
as at 31 March the Board as independent Non-executive Directors.
Roger 2010: Yates subsequently resigned from the Board in December Ordinary 2009 to take up an executive role overseas.
Shares Percentage Eureko B. V. 51,128,190 10.6 The Nomination Committee and the Board have Aviva 24,301,321 5.0 commenced a search for an independent Non-executive Artemis Investment Management 23,556,805 4.9 Fidelity 22,696,416 4.7 Director.
Lloyds Banking Group 22,425,948 4.6 Greenlight Capital LP 16,450,119 3.4 General Meeting Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication Employees of pre-emption rights At 1 March 2010, there were 798 full-time employees and Ordinary resolution 9 will be put to the AGM of the 75 part-time employees within the Group 1 March 2009: Company to renew the Directors power to allot shares.
845 full-time employees and 73 part-time employees.
The Directors currently have authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum amount of 164,730.35.
The Resolution proposes that a similar authority be granted in substitution of the existing authority to allot securities up to F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 30 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information a maximum amount of 160,715.81, representing Purchase of own shares approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Companys total Special resolution 11 will be put to the AGM to renew the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as present power to make market purchases of the at the date of this report.
Pursuant to special resolution 11 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary In addition, in accordance with guidance issued by the shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority Association of British Insurers in December 2008, the shall be 48,219,564 being approximately 10 per cent.
of Company is seeking additional authority to allot securities the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue up to a of the Company as at the date of this report.
The minimum maximum amount of 140,011.07, representing price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 0.1 approximately 29.04 per cent.
of the Companys total pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price for an issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an at the date of this report.
The benefit to the Company of amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle obtaining such authority on an annual basis is that it would market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for allow the Company to implement a rights issue of an the five business days immediately preceding the date of amount equal to approximately 62.37 per cent.
As at the date of this report, the Company had issued ordinary share capital without the need to call an 24,339,183 options to subscribe for ordinary shares additional general meeting.
This would shorten the outstanding representing 5.05 per cent.
of the issued implementation timetable for such a rights issue.
The ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury Directors have no present intention of exercising this shares at the same date.
If the buy-back authority is authority.
The authority will expire at the end of the AGM to renewed at the 2010 AGM and is then utilised in full, the be held in 2011, unless previously cancelled or varied by options outstanding at the date of this report would the Company in general meeting.
It is the intention of the represent 5.61 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share Directors to renew this authority annually at each AGM.
capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
The power conferred by this resolution will expire on the earlier As at the date of this report the Company holds of the date falling 15 months after the date of the passing 17,077,485 ordinary shares in treasury.
This represents of this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General approximately 3.54 per cent.
of the Companys ordinary Meeting of the Company to be held in 2011. share capital in issue excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority would either be held as treasury shares or cancelled.
While Special resolution 10 will be put to the AGM of the any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended Company to renew the present power to allot unissued and currently no dividends or any other distribution are ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in paid or made on such shares.
The Directors consider it treasury for cash without first being required to offer such appropriate to have in place the facility to acquire shares in shares to existing shareholders in proportion to their circumstances where they believe that future shareholder existing shareholdings.
returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary would result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share shares and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal and if it is considered to be in the best interests of amount of 24,963.65, representing approximately 5 per shareholders generally.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this report, except that: In 2009, the Group purchased 11,043,017 ordinary shares 2008: 345,845 ordinary shares representing 2.2 per cent.
1 the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be of the ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2009 allotted in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is pursuant to this authority.
The aggregate consideration 300,726.88, representing approximately 62.37 per paid for own share purchases in 2009 was 7.4 million cent.
of the Companys total issued ordinary share 2008: 0.6 million.
The maximum number of own shares capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this held during the year was 11,797,023 representing 2.4 per report: and cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue.
4,487,231 own shares 2 the maximal nominal amount of unissued ordinary representing 0.9 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue shares that can be allotted or treasury shares sold: were transferred during the year pursuant to employee a pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering where share schemes.
legal or regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly on a pre-emptive basis : or b in order to satisfy options or awards under any share scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved by the Company in general meeting, is 160,715.81, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by resolution 9 and the power proposed to be granted by resolution 10 are necessary in order to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors do not have any intention of exercising such authority or power at the present time other than for the purposes referred to in 2 b above.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 31 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 5.
Redeemable shares Amendment to Articles of Association Under the Companies Act 1985, if a company wished to Special Resolution 12 will propose the amendment of the issue redeemable shares, it had to include in its articles the Companys Articles of Association primarily to take account terms and manner of redemption.
The Companies Act of the coming into force of the Companies Shareholders 2006 enables directors to determine such matters instead Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights provided they are so authorised by the articles.
The revised Regulations and the implementation of the last parts of articles of association contain such an authorisation.
The principal proposed changes Company has no plans to issue redeemable shares but if it to the Articles are summarised below: did so the directors would need shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
The Companys objects The provisions regulating the operations of the Company 6.
Authority to purchase own shares, consolidate are currently set out in the Companys memorandum and and sub-divide shares, and reduce share capital articles of association.
The Companys memorandum Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required contains, among other things, the objects clause which specific enabling provisions in its articles to purchase its sets out the scope of the activities the Company is own shares, to consolidate or sub-divide its shares and to authorised to undertake.
This is drafted to give a wide reduce its share capital or other undistributable reserves as scope.
well as shareholder authority to undertake the relevant action.
The current articles of association include these The Companies Act 2006 significantly reduces the enabling provisions.
Under the Companies Act 2006 a constitutional significance of a companys memorandum.
company will only require shareholder authority to do any of The Companies Act 2006 provides that a memorandum these things and it will no longer be necessary for articles will record only the names of subscribers and the number to contain enabling provisions.
Accordingly, the relevant of shares each subscriber has agreed to take in the enabling provisions have been removed from the revised company.
Under the Companies Act 2006 the objects articles of association.
clause and all other provisions which are contained in a companys memorandum, for existing companies at 1 October 2009, are deemed to be contained in the 7.
Use of seals companys articles of association but the company can Under the Companies Act 1985, a company required remove these provisions by special resolution.
authority in its articles to have an official seal for use abroad.
Under the Companies Act 2006, such authority will Further, the Companies Act 2006 states that, unless a no longer be required.
Accordingly, the relevant companys articles provide otherwise, a companys objects authorisation has been removed in the revised articles of are unrestricted.
This abolishes the need for companies to association.
For this reason the Company is proposing to remove its objects clause together with all 8.
Suspension of registration of share transfers other provisions of its memorandum which, by virtue of the The current articles of association permit the directors to Companies Act 2006, are treated as forming part of the suspend the registration of transfers.
Under the Companies Companys articles of association as of 1 October 2009.
Act 2006 share transfers must be registered as soon as Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of the Annual General practicable.
The power in the current articles of association Meeting confirms the removal of these provisions for the to suspend the registration of transfers is inconsistent with Company.
As the effect of this resolution will be to remove this requirement.
Accordingly, this power has been the statement currently in the Companys memorandum of removed in the revised articles of association.
association regarding limited liability, the revised articles of association also contain an express statement regarding 9.
Vacation of office by directors the limited liability of shareholders.
The current articles of association specify the circumstances in which a director must vacate office.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions revised articles of association update these provisions to Provisions in the current articles of association which reflect the approach taken on mental and physical replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 incapacity in the model articles for public companies are in the main amended to bring them into line with the produced by the Department for Business, Innovation and Companies Act 2006.
Voting by proxies on a show of hands Under the Companies Act 1985, a company could only The Shareholders' Rights Regulations have amended the change its name by special resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 so that it now provides that each Companies Act 2006 a company will be able to change its proxy appointed by a member has one vote on a show of name by other means provided for by its articles.
To take hands unless the proxy is appointed by more than one advantage of this provision, the revised articles of member in which case the proxy has one vote for and one association enable the directors to pass a resolution to vote against if the proxy has been instructed by one or change the Company's name.
more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
Authorised share capital and unissued shares articles of association have been amended to reflect these The Companies Act 2006 abolishes the requirement for a changes.
company to have an authorised share capital and the revised articles of association reflect this.
Voting by corporate representatives be limited as to the number of shares they can at any time The Shareholders Rights Regulations have amended the allot because allotment authority continues to be required Companies Act 2006 in order to enable multiple under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of representatives appointed by the same corporate member employee share schemes.
to vote in different ways on a show of hands and on a poll.
The revised articles of association contain provisions which reflect these amendments.
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 32 Governance Report of the Directors Business Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 12.
Chairmans casting vote have received no response within the period of 28 days The revised articles of association remove the provision beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
giving the chairman a casting vote in the event of an The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by equality of votes at a general meeting as this is no longer other permitted means when a relevant document or permitted under the Companies Act 2006. information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or 13.
Notice of general meetings information.
The Shareholders Rights Regulations amend the Companies Act 2006 to require the company to give 21 Notice of General Meetings clear days notice of general meetings unless the company We are currently able to call general meetings other than offers members an electronic voting facility and a special AGMs on 14 days notice.
We are proposing special resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than 14 resolution 13 at the Meeting so that we can continue to be days has been passed.
Annual general meetings must be able to do so.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will held on 21 clear days notice.
The revised articles of only be issued where it is, in the opinion of the directors, association amend the provisions of the current articles of merited in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
association to be consistent with the new requirements.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special Resolution 14.
Adjournments for lack of quorum 13 will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the 2011.
It is the current intention of the Directors to renew Shareholders Rights Regulations, general meetings this authority annually.
adjourned for lack of quorum must be held at least 10 clear days after the original meeting.
The current articles of Auditors association have been changed to reflect this requirement.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing 15.
Voting record date their re-appointment and for the Directors to determine Under the Companies Act 2006 as amended by the their fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Shareholders Rights Regulations, the company must Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 5 c determine the right of members to vote at a general to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail meeting by reference to the register not more than 48 on how the Board ensures the independence of the hours before the time for the holding of the meeting, not auditors is detailed on pages 37 and 38 within the taking account of days which are not working days.
The Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
current articles of association have been amended to reflect this requirement.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approving this 16.
Extraordinary general meetings Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each The concept of extraordinary general meetings no longer aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the exists in the Companies Act 2006.
Accordingly, references Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has to extraordinary general meetings will simply refer to taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in general meetings.
order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is 17.
Retirement of directors by rotation aware of that information.
The provisions on retirement by rotation have been amended to reflect the requirements of the Combined By order of the Board, Code.
Under the Combined Code directors must offer W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least Secretary every three years and so the revised articles of association 80 George Street provide that each director shall retire at the annual general Edinburgh EH2 3BU meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in 31 March 2010 which he was elected or last re-elected by the Company and a director other than a director holding executive office shall retire at each annual general meeting from the ninth anniversary of the date in which he was appointed or elected as the case may be.
In addition, any director who has been appointed by the board since the last annual general meeting is required to retire.
All such retiring directors may offer themselves for election or re-election.
Electronic communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The proposed revised articles of association continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or
