Additional information for shareholders BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders Liquidation rights: redemption provisions Exchange controls In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and companys operations.
unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of nonaverage market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided shares in the company.
pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such Taxation preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue holder who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, Variation of rights hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the United States federal income consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of partner and the tax treatment of the partnership, and may not be the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, described fully below.
all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to that is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts shares of that class.
administration and one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
Shareholders meetings and notices This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws In certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the basis.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the heading Voting Rights.
Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with be held within the six-month period from the first day of BPs accounting its terms.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention determined by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the meeting by ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary authorized officers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK attending.
taxation other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular or foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the or ADSs, other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the benefits of the Treaty.
Taxation of dividends Disclosure of interests in shares UK taxation The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
may lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the on their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect UK is subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends of those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of will generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting the cash dividend.
shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
103 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders US federal income taxation Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend the US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately provided that the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of 60 days before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding period ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the shares which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US US federal income taxation federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs from the company and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes holder to a foreign tax credit.
equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included realized and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the in income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the recognized in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is generally dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction taxed at a maximum rate of 15% if the holders holding period for such generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss will from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax outside the US, and generally will be passive category income or, in the credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is to limitations.
treated separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as credit limitation.
stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is ADSs that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis sterling US dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realized on the sale or income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange treated as capital gain.
Instead a US holder would be treated as if he or fluctuations during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend she had realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary payment is includible in income to the date the payment is converted into shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be each such year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an eligible for the 15% tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for apply.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a Additional tax considerations return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary Proposed scrip dividend programme shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
15 April, the company is planning to introduce an optional scrip dividend In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules programme, wherein holders of ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to for passive foreign investment companies, described below under receive their dividends in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares or Capital Gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions made by a ADSs of the company, instead of cash.
Please consult your tax adviser PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not eligible for for the consequences to you.
UK inheritance tax Taxation of capital gains The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an UK taxation individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a or controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of carries on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are agency or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on subject both to inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the or after 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be have used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be purposes of such trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in permanent establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a the Estate Tax Convention.
tax credit against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
