BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Our group functions and regions support the work of our segments and businesses.
Their key objectives are to establish and monitor fit-forpurpose functional standards across the group: to act as centres of deep Group overview functional expertise: to access significant leverage with third-party suppliers: and to establish and maintain capabilities among the functional staff employed within our operating businesses.
In addition, the head of each region provides the required integration and co-ordination of group activities in a particular geographic area and represents BP to external parties.
Where we operate BPs worldwide headquarters is in London.
The UK is a centre for Our organization trading, legal, finance and other business functions as well as three of BPs major global research and technology groups.
BP is one of the worlds leading international oil We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, a and gas companies.
We operate in more than Russia, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Currently, around 67% of the groups capital is invested in Organisation for 80 countries, providing our customers with fuel Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries, with for transportation, energy for heat and light, around 40% of our fixed assets located in the US and around 20% in Europe.
retail services and petrochemicals products for everyday items.
As a global group, our interests and activities are held or operated through subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established in and subject to the laws and regulations of many different Exploration and Production jurisdictions.
These interests and activities covered two business BPs major areas of production in 2009 segments in 2009: Exploration and Production and Refining and Marketing.
BPs activities in low-carbon energy are managed through our Alternative Energy business, which is reported within Other businesses and corporate.
Exploration and Productions activities cover three key areas.
Upstream activities include oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production.
Midstream activities include pipeline, transportation and processing activities related to our upstream activities.
Marketing and trading activities include the marketing and trading of natural gas, including liquefied natural gas LNG, together with power and natural gas liquids NGLs.
Refining and Marketings activities include the supply and trading, refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, petroleum and petrochemicals products and related services.
The two business segments each comprise a number of strategic performance units SPUs, which are organized along either geographic or activity-related lines.
The role of the SPU includes the development of local capability and the fostering of external stakeholder relationships.
Each SPU is of a scale that allows for a close focus on performance delivery by its respective segment, which includes the appropriate management of costs.
a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reflects 100% of the BP subsidiary Equity-accounted entity assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including minority interests.
The company was incorporated in 1909 in England and Wales and changed its name to BP p. l. c. in 2001.
BPs primary share listing is the London Stock Exchange.
Ordinary shares are also traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany and, in the US, the companys securities are traded in the form of ADSs.
See pages 100 to 101 for more details.
Our worldwide headquarters is located at: 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 501 Westlake Park Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77079.
10 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Our Exploration and Production segment conducts upstream and Our market midstream activities in 30 countries and we are the largest producer of oil and gas in North America.
The segments geographical coverage in Energy markets remained volatile in 2009, these activities currently includes Angola, Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, reflecting the dramatic drop in world economic Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad, Norway, the UK, the US and locations within Asia Pacific, Latin America, North Africa and the Middle activity early in the year and indications of East.
Our Exploration and Production segment also includes gas economic recovery in the second half.
Looking marketing and trading activities, primarily in Canada, Europe and the US.
In Russia, we have an important associate through our 50% ahead, the long-term outlook is one of growing shareholding in TNK-BP, a major oil company with exploration assets, a demand for energy, particularly in Asia, refineries and other downstream infrastructure.
alongside challenges for the industry in meeting In Refining and Marketing, we market our products in more than 80 countries, with a particularly strong presence in the US and Europe, this demand.
Rising incomes and expanding as well as major activities in Australia, Southern Africa, India and China.
urban populations are expected to drive In the US, we own or have a share in five refineries and market primarily under the Amoco, ARCO, BP and Castrol brands.
We are one of the demand, while the evolution towards a lowerlargest gasoline retailers in that country.
In Europe, we own or have a carbon economy will require technology, share in seven refineries and we market extensively across the region, innovation and investment.
primarily under the Aral, BP and Castrol brands.
Our long-established supply and trading activity is responsible for delivering value across the World oil consumption declined for a second successive year during crude and oil products supply chain.
Our petrochemicals business 2009, with growing demand in non-OECD countries once again more maintains a manufacturing position globally, with an emphasis on growth than offset by falling consumption in OECD countries.
We continue to seek opportunities to broaden our activities in oil prices for 2009 were lower than in the previous year, breaking an growth markets such as China and India.
unprecedented string of seven consecutive annual increases.
Natural gas prices also weakened in 2009 and were highly volatile.
Refining Refining and Marketing a margins fell sharply as oil demand contracted and substantial amounts BPs global presence of new refining capacity came onstream.
Economic context The world economy began to show signs of recovery in the latter part of 2009 and this is expected to continue through 2010, but economic growth in 2010 is likely to be muted in the OECD countries.
Growth in global oil consumption is expected to resume as the world economy recovers from recession.
In 2009, concerns about the volatility of commodity and financial markets, combined with renewed focus on climate change and the early experiences with efforts to reduce CO emissions in the EU and 2 elsewhere, led to an increased focus on the appropriate role for markets, government oversight and other policy measures relating to the supply and consumption of energy.
The concept of peak oil the time after which less oil is available to the world continues to hold the interest of some commentators, although global proved reserves have tended to rise over time and remain sufficient to support higher levels of production.
Meanwhile, the consumer response to higher prices and an increased focus on energy efficiency have served to constrain demand.
We expect regulation and taxation of the energy industry and energy users to increase in many areas over the short to medium term.
OECD IEA 2009, pages 622-623: Reference Scenario, World.
BP refinery wholly or partly owned Petrochemicals site s a The green shaded circles indicate the approximate coverage of BPs integrated fuels value chains.
11 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Natural gas prices Crude oil and gas prices, and refining margins Natural gas prices weakened in 2009 and were volatile.
The average US $ per barrel of oil equivalent Henry Hub First of Month Index fell to $3.99 mmBtu in 2009, a 56% decrease from the record $9.04 mmBtu average seen in 2008.
150 Dated Brent oil price Recession-induced demand declines and strong production caused prices Henry Hub gas price First of Month Index a Global indicator refining margin GIM to drop from $6.16 mmBtu at the start of the year to $2.84 mmBtu in September.
However, over the course of the year, the impact was partly 120 offset as US regional gas price differentials narrowed, driven partly by the Rockies Express Pipeline extension allowing the transportation of larger quantities of gas out of the Rockies area.
Reduced imports from Canada, slowing US production growth and cooler temperatures allowed prices to 90 recover to $4.49 mmBtu by the end of the year.
Prices at the UK National Balancing Point similarly fell to an average of 30.85 pence per therm, 47% below the 2008 average price of 58.12 pence per therm.
In 2009, 60 there was a switch of uncontracted LNG cargoes from Asia to Europe, reflecting a shift in relative spot prices.
LNG imports to Europe have competed with pipeline imports, where the gas price is often indexed to oil prices, as well as with marginal European gas production.
Gas prices 30 were often at or below parity with coal, when translated into the cost of generating power, which led to gas displacing coal in power generation in Europe and the US.
The Henry Hub First of Month Index, at Source: Platts BP.
$9.04 mmBtu, was 32% higher than the 2007 average of $6.86 mmBtu.
2008s prices peaked at $13.11 mmBtu in July amid robust demand and Crude oil prices falling US gas imports, but fell to $6.90 mmBtu in December as demand Dated Brent for the year averaged $61.67 per barrel, about 37% below weakened and production remained strong.
In the UK, 2008 average 2008s record average of $97.26 per barrel.
Prices began the year at their prices of 58.12 pence per therm at the National Balancing Point, were lowest point as the world economy grappled with the sharpest downturn 94% above the 2007 average of 29.95 pence per therm.
Looking ahead, gas markets in 2010 are expected to follow Global oil consumption reflected the economic slowdown, falling b developments in the global economy, but any price movements are likely by roughly 1.3 million b d for the year 1.5%, the largest annual decline to be impacted by significant new LNG capacity as it becomes available.
The biggest reductions were early in the year, with OECD countries accounting for the entire global decline.
Crude oil prices rose Refining margins sharply in the second quarter in response to sustained OPEC production Refining margins fell sharply in 2009 as demand for oil products reduced cuts and emerging signs of stabilization in the world economy, despite in the wake of the global economic recession and new refining capacity very high commercial oil inventories in the OECD.
OPEC members b came onstream, mostly in Asia Pacific.
The BP global indicator refining sustained roughly 2.5 million b d of production cuts implemented in late a margin GIM averaged $4 per barrel last year, down $2.50 per barrel 2008 and throughout 2009.
Additional price increases later in the year compared with 2008.
Margins in the Far East were particularly badly hit were sustained by further positive economic news and signs that the averaging close to zero in Singapore because new refining capacity has inventory overhang was beginning to correct.
In 2008, the average dated Brent price of $97.26 per barrel was Margins in Europe were about half the 2008 level as the reduction 34% higher than the $72.39 per barrel average seen in 2007.
Daily prices in economic activity meant weaker demand for commercial transport began 2008 at $96.02 per barrel, peaked at $144.22 per barrel on 3 July and therefore lower middle distillate consumption.
In the US, where 2008, and fell to $36.55 per barrel at the end of the year.
The sharp drop refining is more highly upgraded and the transport market more in prices was due to falling demand in the second half of the year, caused gasoline-orientated, margins were stronger than in Europe.
by the OECD falling into recession and the lagged effect on demand of Refining margins in 2008 were lower than in 2007, with the BP high prices in the first half of the year.
OPEC had increased production GIM decreasing to an average of $6.50 per barrel from $9.94 per barrel in significantly through the first three quarters and, as a result of falling 2007.
The premium for light products above fuel oils remained high, consumption and rising OPEC production, inventories rose.
As prices reflecting a continuing shortage of upgrading capacity and the favouring continued to decline, OPEC responded with successive announcements of fully upgraded refineries over less complex sites.
of production cuts in September, October and December.
Looking ahead, refining margins are likely to remain under Looking ahead, in 2010 we expect oil price movements to pressure through 2010, with capacity already exceeding demand and continue to be driven by the extent of global economic growth and its additional new capacity expected to come onstream during the year.
resulting implications for oil consumption, and by OPEC production decisions.
a See footnote d on page 37. b Adapted from Oil Market Report February 2009.
12 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Along with increasing supply, we believe the energy industry will be Global energy demand by type required to make hydrocarbons cleaner and more efficient to use million tonnes of oil equivalent particularly in the critical area of power generation, for which the key hydrocarbons are currently coal and gas.
The world has reserves of coal 20 Other renewables b Biomass and waste for around 120 years at current consumption rates, but coal produces Coal more carbon than any other fossil fuel.
Carbon capture and storage CCS Hydroelectricity may help to provide a path to cleaner coal, and BP is investing in this Nuclear energy 16 Natural gas area, but CCS technologies still face significant technical and economic Oil issues and are unlikely to be in operation at scale for at least a decade.
In contrast, we believe that in many countries natural gas has the potential to provide the most significant reductions in carbon emissions 12 from power generation in the shortest time and at the lowest cost.
These reductions can be achieved using technology available today.
Combinedcycle turbines, fuelled by natural gas, produce around half the CO 2 8 emissions of coal-fired power, and are cheaper and quicker to build.
It is estimated that there are reserves of natural gas in place equivalent to b 60 years consumption at current rates and they are rising as new skills and technology unlock new unconventional gas resources.
For these 4 reasons, gas is looking to be an increasingly attractive resource in meeting the growing demand for energy, playing a greater role as a key part of the energy future.
1990 2007 2015 2030 At the same time, alternative energies also have the potential to Source: World Energy Outlook 2009.
OECD IEA 2009, page 622: Reference make a substantial contribution to the transition to a lower-carbon Scenario, World.
economy, but this will require investment, innovation and time.
Currently, wind, solar, wave, tide and geothermal energy account for only around Long-term outlook c 1% of total global consumption.
Even in the most aggressive scenario Recent economic conditions have weakened global demand for primary put forward by the IEA, these forms of energy are estimated to meet no energy, but a number of forecasts predict a return to growth in the d more than 5% of total demand in 2030. medium term.
This is underpinned by continuing population growth and If industry and the market are to meet the worlds growing by generally rising living standards in the developing world, including the demand for energy in a sustainable way, governments will be required to expansion of urban populations.
set a stable and enduring framework.
As part of this, governments will Under the International Energy Agencys IEA reference scenario, need to provide secure access for exploration and development of fossil global energy demand is projected to increase by around 40% between fuel resources, define mutual benefits for resource owners and a 2007 and 2030.
That scenario also projects that fossil fuels will still be development partners, and establish and maintain an appropriate legal satisfying as much as 80% of the worlds energy needs in 2030.
At and regulatory environment, including a mechanism for recognizing and current rates of consumption, the world has enough proved reserves of incorporating the cost of reducing carbon emissions.
b fossil fuels to meet these requirements if investment is permitted to a World Energy Outlook 2009.
The turn those reserves into production capacity.
However, to meet the IEAs reference scenario describes what would happen if, among other things, governments were potential growth in demand, continued investment in new technology will to take no new initiatives bearing on the energy sector, beyond those already adopted by mid-2009.
b BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2009.
This estimate is not based on proved reserves as be required in order to boost recovery from declining fields and defined by SEC rules.
For example, in oil alone, Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2009.
The IEAs 450 policy scenario assumes governments adopt commitments to limit the long-term concentration of where we believe there are reserves in place to satisfy approximately greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to 450 parts per million of CO equivalent.
b 2 40 years demand at current rates of consumption, we estimate that our d World Energy Outlook 2009.
OECD IEA 2009, page 212: World primary energy demand by fuel in industry will need to bring nearly 50 million barrels per day of new the 450 Scenario Mtoe.
capacity onstream by 2030 if it is to meet the increased demand.
To play their part in achieving this, energy companies such as BP will need secure and reliable access to as-yet undeveloped resources.
We estimate that more than 80% of the worlds oil resources are held by Russia, Mexico and members of OPEC areas where international oil companies are frequently limited or prohibited from applying their technology and expertise to produce additional supply.
New partnerships will be required to transform latent resources into much-needed proved reserves.
A more diverse mix of energy will also be required to meet this increased demand.
Such a mix is likely to include both unconventional fossil fuel resources such as oil sands, coalbed methane and natural gas produced from shale formations and renewable energy sources such as wind, biofuels and solar power.
Beyond simply meeting growth in overall demand, a diverse mix would also help to provide enhanced national and global energy security while supporting the transition to a lower-carbon economy.
Improving the efficiency of energy use will also play a key role in maintaining energy market balance in the future.
13 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Enhanced performance and efficiency Our strategy Our strategy aims to create value for shareholders by investing to deliver growth in our Exploration and Production business together with The priorities that drove our success in 2009 enhanced efficiency and high-quality earnings and returns throughout safety, people and performance remain the our operations.
In Exploration and Production, our strategy is to invest to grow foundation of our agenda as we build on our production safely, reliably and efficiently.
We intend to achieve this by momentum and work to further enhance our strengthening our portfolio of leadership positions in the worlds most competitive position.
prolific hydrocarbon basins, enabled by the development and application of technology and the building of strong relationships based on mutual advantage.
We also intend to sustainably drive cost and capital efficiency Our strategy is to invest competitively to grow oil and gas production while working to drive performance across the group through enhanced in accessing, finding, developing and producing resources, enabled by operating efficiency, capital efficiency and cost efficiency.
deep technical capability and a culture of continuous improvement.
To meet growing world demand, BP is committed to exploring, In Refining and Marketing, our strategic focus is on enhancing portfolio quality, integrating activities across value chains and developing and producing more fossil fuel resources: manufacturing, processing and delivering better and more advanced products: and performance efficiency.
We expect to continue building our business enabling the transition to a lower-carbon future.
We aim to do this while around advantaged assets in material and significant energy markets operating safely, reliably and in compliance with the law.
We strive to run while improving the safety and reliability of our operations.
Our objective is to achieve sector-leading levels of performance on a sustainable basis.
our business within the discipline of a clear financial framework.
In 2009, we improved our overall competitive performance by To achieve this, we need to continue upgrading the manufacturing enhancing operating performance and reducing complexity and costs.
capabilities within our integrated fuels value chains to achieve the best We believe we can continue to compete successfully through our ability capacity utilization and margin capture.
We continue to explore appropriate opportunities to deploy downstream capital into fasterto access resources and deliver high-quality products and service to our customers.
We intend to remain focused on the application of technology growing non-OECD markets.
We also intend to continue our selective and developing relationships based on a commitment to long-term investment in our international businesses, which include partnerships and mutual advantage.
Our intention is to generate and petrochemicals and lubricants, where we see potential to deliver strong and sustainable returns.
sustain business momentum and growth through a rigorous process of continuous improvement and an ongoing focus on safety, people In Alternative Energy, we have focused our investments in the and performance.
areas where we believe we can create the greatest competitive advantage.
We have substantial businesses in wind and solar power and are developing advanced biofuels and low-carbon energy technologies Safety, reliability, compliance and continuous improvement Safe, reliable and compliant operations remain the groups first priority.
such as hydrogen power and carbon capture and storage.
A key enabler for this is the BP operating management system OMS, Our determination to drive efficiency through our businesses has which provides a common framework for all BP operations, designed to proved vital to our performance during a period of recession and we believe that it will remain critical to our future prospects as the global achieve consistency and continuous improvement in safety and efficiency.
OMS includes mandatory practices, such as integrity economy recovers and evolves.
management and incident investigation, which are designed to address particular risks.
In addition, it enables each site to focus on the most Looking further ahead As discussed in the Our market section of this Annual Report and important risks in its own operations and sets out procedures on how to manage them in accordance with the group-wide framework.
Further Accounts see pages 11 to 13, we expect that the world will require a information on our safety priorities and performance can be found on more diverse energy mix as the basis for a secure supply of energy over page 46. time.
We intend to play a central role in meeting the worlds continued need for hydrocarbons, with our Exploration and Production and Refining The right people, skills and capability and Marketing activities remaining at the core of our strategy.
We are It is vital that we develop and deploy people with the skills, capability also creating long-term options for the future in new energy technology and behaviours required to meet our objectives.
Despite a tight global and low-carbon energy businesses.
Current investment is focused on recruitment market for some of our core technical disciplines, we have wind, solar and biofuels as potential sources of resource diversification been successful in building capacity and getting the right people with the for the world, and we are investing in carbon capture and storage as an right skills in the right place.
We are now going further, strengthening the enabling technology.
We believe that this focused portfolio has the culture within BP through a commitment to continuous improvement in potential to be a material source of value creation for BP in the longer operations and enhancing the capabilities, technical expertise and term see pages 42 to 43.
We are also enhancing our capabilities in natural gas, which is likely to play a greater role as a key part of the organizational quality needed to drive performance.
Our people strategy has already resulted in refreshed group energy future.
We intend to lead and shape this transition, including leadership and senior management teams, recruitment focused on through the application of advanced technology to unlock sources of individuals with strong operational and technical expertise, and unconventional gas, while working to achieve sector-leading levels of return for our shareholders.
appropriate reward for performance at all levels.
14 Business review Group overview BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Performance Our performance Against the backdrop of the global recession, we delivered a strong performance in 2009.
Profit and cash flow were lower than in 2008, due 2009 has been a successful year for BP, with primarily to a much weaker price environment, although the impact was positive financial and operational momentum partially offset by better operational performance and lower costs across the group as we implemented our efficiency programmes.
Notable despite an extremely turbulent global financial achievements include: environment.
Exploration and Production Safety Replacing 129% of our proved reserves, on a combined basis of Good progress has been made on underpinning improved safety subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
Throughout the year, we continued to focus on b Delivering a 5% underlying growth in production.
training and enhancing procedures across the organization.
Significantly, Reducing unit production costs by 12%.
2009 was an important year in the development of OMS.
By the end Achieving a strong gas marketing and trading performance.
of 2009, around 80% of our operating sites were using the system, Accessing new resources in Egypt, the Gulf of Mexico, Indonesia, including all our operated refineries and petrochemicals plants.
Safety on page 46 for more information on OMS.
Making the Tiber discovery in the Gulf of Mexico at a depth of over In 2009, a third-party-operated helicopter carrying contractors 35,000 feet, the deepest oil and gas discovery well ever drilled.
from BPs Miller platform crashed in the North Sea, resulting in the tragic Making three further discoveries in Block 31, Angola.
In addition, BP sustained two fatalities within our own Starting up Tangguh in Indonesia and six other major projects in the operations.
We deeply regret the loss of these lives.
Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and Russia.
Recordable injury frequency RIF, a measure of the number of reported injuries per 200,000 hours worked was 0.34, significantly below Refining and Marketing 2008 and 2007 levels of 0.43 and 0.48, respectively.
Reported oil spills Restoring our overall performance so that it is once again competitive greater than one barrel were 234 in 2009 compared with 335 in 2008 and with our supermajor peers.
Our environmental measure that tracks greenhouse gas c Achieving a Solomon refining availability of 93.6%, which is an a GHG emissions increased in 2009 to 65.0 million tonnes of carbon increase of almost five percentage points compared with 2008. dioxide equivalent, compared with 61.4 million tonnes in 2008.
The d Reducing costs across the segment by more than 15%.
primary reason for this increase is the growth of our business, including Delivering a strong supply and trading performance.
the significant increase in our US refining throughputs, the start-up of our Performing strongly in our international businesses, despite the weak Tangguh LNG project in Indonesia and the continued success of our Gulf environment.
of Mexico deepwater operations, including Thunder Horse.
Delivering simplification and lower costs through integration in the fuels value chains.
People Simplifying the segments footprint in aviation and lubricants and During 2009 we made further significant progress in generating completing the transfer of our US convenience retail business to a a stronger performance focus and in fostering a culture that attributes franchise operation.
more value to deep specialist skills and expertise.
At the same time, we Successfully exiting from our ground fuels marketing business in continued to improve operational efficiency and reduce overheads.
Non-retail headcount was reduced by 4,400 6% in 2009.
Overall, a See footnote a in Environment on page 47. the number of employees including retail staff was reduced by 11,700 b Underlying production growth excludes the effect of entitlement changes in our production-sharing in 2009. agreements driven by changes in oil and gas prices and the effect of OPEC quota restrictions.
c Refining availability represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is defined as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after subtracting the annualized time lost due to turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory maintenance downtime.
d Based on Refining and Marketings share of production and manufacturing expenses plus distribution and administration expenses.
