Additional information for shareholders BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK information is accumulated and communicated to management, including and remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as to any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty procedures, our management, including the group chief executive and reserve tax.
chief financial officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not CREST system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an procedures are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control agreement for the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that agreement, when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp duty reserve tax all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have will apply to agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the been detected.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure agreement is made outside the UK between two non-residents.
controls and procedures our management necessarily was required to Purchases of ordinary shares outside the CREST system are subject apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible either to stamp duty at a rate of 5 per 1,000 or part, unless the stamp controls and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain duty is less than 5, when no stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty unconsolidated entities.
As we do not control these entities, our reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax are disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are generally the liability of the purchaser.
necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
Because of the inherent nominee will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or part or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the or fraud may occur and not be detected.
The companys disclosure ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
An ADR holder electing to controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend will be responsible for the stamp believe that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
duty reserve tax due on issue of shares to the Depositarys nominee and The companys management, with the participation of the calculated at the rate of 1.5% on the issue price of the shares.
It is companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated understood that HM Revenue & Customs, practice is to calculate the the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures issue price by reference to the total cash receipt to which a US holder pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period would have been entitled had the election to receive ADSs instead of a covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief cash dividend not been made.
ADR holders electing to receive ADSs executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys instead of the cash dividend authorize the Depositary to sell sufficient disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable shares to cover this liability.
Changes in internal controls over financial reporting Documents on display There were no changes in the groups internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by the Form 20-F that BPs Annual Report and Accounts is also available online at have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our www.
Shareholders may obtain a hard copy of BPs internal controls over financial reporting.
complete audited financial statements, free of charge, by contacting BP Distribution Services at 44 0 870 241 3269 or through an email request Managements report on internal control over financial reporting addressed to @bp.
com UK and Rest of World or Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining from Precision IR at 1 888 301 2505 or through an email request adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control addressed to bpreports@precisionir.
over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision The company is subject to the information requirements of the of the principal executive and principal financial officers to provide US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and In accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual the preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting Report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is purposes in accordance with IFRS.
possible to read and copy documents that have been filed with the SEC As of the end of the 2009 fiscal year, management conducted an at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street NE, assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial Washington, DC 20549, US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SECreporting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for 0330 or log on to www.
In addition, BPs SEC filings are available Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull.
Based on this assessment, to the public at the SECs website www.
BP discloses on its management has determined that BPs internal control over financial website at www.
com , and in its reporting as of 31 December 2009 was effective.
Annual Report on Form 20-F Item 16G significant ways if any in which The companys internal control over financial reporting includes its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records companies under NYSE listing standards.
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions Controls and procedures are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures made only in accordance with authorizations of management and the The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such directors of BP: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of BPs ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports the company assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
