BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the groups defined from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow can be benefit pension and post-retirement plans is important to the recorded reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantification of the amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the amount of liability require the application of judgement to existing facts and benefit expense in the income statement.
The assumptions used may circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the actual cash vary from year to year, which will affect future results of operations.
outflows can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take also affect future results of operations.
account of changing facts and circumstances.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would reviewed by management at the end of each year.
These assumptions result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year-end change occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups balance described above.
sheet, and pension and other post-retirement benefit expense for the Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a cleanfollowing year.
up is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
The pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions at Generally, this coincides with commitment to a formal plan of action or, if December 2009, 2008 and 2007 are provided in Financial statements earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The provision for Note 35 on page 161. environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal and The assumed rate of investment return, discount rate and the constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans US healthcare cost trend rate have a significant effect on the amounts for remediation.
Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from estimates reported.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, prices, assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up Financial statements Note 35 on page 161. technology.
In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least demographic and mortality assumptions.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have at 31 December 2009 was 1.75% 2008 2%.
been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted As further described in Financial statements Note 41 on where appropriate to reflect the experience of the group and an page 176, the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
A sensitivity circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in analysis of the impact of changes in the mortality assumptions on the determining whether it is probable that there will be a future outflow of benefit expense and obligation is provided in Financial statements funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific Note 35 on page 161. litigation should be adjusted.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome Property, plants and equipment of litigation is difficult to predict.
BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous Pensions and other post-retirement benefits countries, but no individual property is significant to the group as a Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves whole.
See Exploration and Production on page 22 for a description of judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, the groups significant reserves and sources of crude oil and natural gas.
salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets, Significant plans to construct, expand or improve specific facilities are determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, healthcare described under each of the business headings within this section.
cost trend rates and rates of utilization of healthcare services by retirees.
Share ownership Directors and senior management As at 18 February 2010, the following directors of BP p. l. c. held interests in BP ordinary shares of 25 cents each or their calculated equivalent as set out below: a b I C Conn 349,820 2,016,005 266,904 a R W Dudley 276,846 1,120,716 a Dr B E Grote 1,351,529 2,376,570 a Dr A B Hayward 622,807 3,022,598 a b A G Inglis 308,639 2,016,005 266,904 P Anderson 6,000 A Burgmans 10,156 C B Carroll 10,500 Sir William Castell 82,500 G David 39,000 E B Davis, Jr 76,497 D J Flint 15,000 Dr D S Julius 15,000 Sir Ian Prosser 16,301 C-H Svanberg 750,000 a Performance shares awarded under the BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan.
These figures represent the maximum possible vesting levels.
The actual number of shares ADSs that vest will depend on the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied over a three-year period.
b Restricted share award under the BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan.
These shares will vest in two equal tranches after three and five years, subject to the directors continued service and satisfactory performance.
