BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors remuneration report Part 1 Summary In a volatile year for the world economy, the BP executive team produced and net income growth.
Following the process set out in the EDIP, the excellent results.
While salaries were frozen for all directors in 2009, the committee judged BP to be tied for third place and thus shared the variable performance-related pay reflected the impressive achievements vesting outcome for third and fourth place to result in a vesting of 17.5% of the year and the turnaround of performance over the past three years.
The details of executive director remuneration are set out in the table on During the year the committee conducted a full review of BPs the opposite page.
remuneration policy, and particularly the EDIP, which is being put before The remuneration committee sets the measures and targets for shareholders for renewal this year.
We consulted with a number of our the annual bonus element of variable pay at the beginning of the year, shareholders, reviewed the actual experience with applying EDIP rules based on the strategy and annual plan accepted by the board.
The over the past five years and considered recent developments in the strategy is built around safety, people and performance.
Overall we concluded that the basic structure of the EDIP included key safety measures 15% of bonus, staff numbers and survey remains appropriate, but that some rebalancing of elements is warranted.
results to reflect the people priorities 15% and a set of financial and The key change we propose is to require a portion of the annual bonus to operational targets to measure performance 70%.
Nearly all targets be deferred, paid in shares and matched after three years subject to an were exceeded, some substantially, with particularly strong performance assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the threeon cost reduction, exploration success, production start-ups and refining year period.
This change would place more focus on the long term, performance.
This overall excellent performance was also reflected in the highlight the importance of safety and build a larger equity stake for market, where BP shareholders recorded the highest total shareholder executives that we believe aligns their interests well with shareholders.
return TSR of all the oil majors for the year.
To balance this additional bonus element, we propose to reduce the The other element of variable pay is awarded in shares based on maximum award of performance shares in the renewed EDIP so as to BPs performance over three years, compared with the other oil majors.
maintain the current quantum of total remuneration.
These changes are Following the process approved by shareholders in the Executive summarized in the table below.
Directors Incentive Plan EDIP, the committee first reviews the threeIt has been an excellent year for BP and its shareholders.
In year TSR of BP compared with its peers and then considers a set of determining annual and long-term awards, the committee has recognized underlying business metrics, again in comparison with peers.
When there the very real achievements of the executive team.
For the future, we is a difference between the two comparisons, the committee decides believe our revised EDIP provides a sound framework with which to which level of vesting best represents BPs relative three-year competitively reward our top executives for continued success in this performance.
This year the TSR result was tightly clustered and sensitive long-term business.
For example, based on a three-month averaging of endpoints, BP came fourth whereas on a one-month averaging it came second.
On underlying metrics, BP ranked first on four Dr DeAnne S Julius of the six reviewed production growth, earnings per share growth, Chairman, Remuneration Committee 26 February 2010 change in return on average capital employed and free cash flow and second or third on the others Refining and Marketing earnings per barrel Summary of future remuneration components Salary Normally reviewed mid-year no increases in 2009.
Bonus On-target bonus of 150% of salary and maximum of 225% of salary based on performance relative to targets set at start of year relating to financial and operational metrics.
Deferred bonus and One-third of actual bonus awarded as shares with three-year deferral, with ability to voluntarily defer an additional match one-third.
All deferred shares matched one-for-one, both subject to an assessment of safety and environmental performance over the three-year period.
Performance shares Following EDIP renewal, award of shares of up to 5.5 times salary for group chief executive, 4.75 times for the chief executive of Exploration and Production, and 4 times for other executive directors.
Vesting after three years based on performance relative to other oil majors.
Three-year retention period after vesting before release of shares.
Pension Final salary scheme appropriate to home country of executive.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a This information has been subject to audit.
b Figures show the total salary received during the calendar year.
The last salary increase was in July 2008. c Includes shares representing reinvested dividends received on the shares that vested at the end of the performance period.
d Based on market price on vesting date 5.08 per share $45.13 per ADS.
e Based on market price on vesting date 5.76 per share $55.17 per ADS.
f Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
g Dr Grote and Mr Dudley hold shares in the form of ADSs.
The above number reflects calculated equivalent in ordinary shares.
h Reflects remuneration received by Mr Dudley since appointment as executive director on 6 April 2009. i This amount includes costs of London accommodation and any tax liability thereon.
j In addition to this amount, under a tax equalization arrangement, BP discharged a US tax liability arising from the participation by Mr Inglis in the UK pension scheme amounting to $90,314.
a Remuneration of non-executive directors in 2009 Historical TSR performance thousand 2008 2009 250 FTSE 100 BP P D Sutherland 600 600 A Burgmans 90 93 200 Sir William Castell 108 115 C B Carroll 93 90 b G David 100 118 150 E B Davis, Jr 105 105 D J Flint 90 85 Dr D S Julius 110 105 100 Sir Ian Prosser 170 165 c C-H Svanberg n a 30 50 Directors leaving the board in 2009 Sir Tom McKillop 95 33 a 04 05 06 07 08 09 This information has been subject to audit.
b Also received 4,166 for serving as a member of BPs technology advisory committee.
This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in While fees were held at 2008 levels, in 2009 actual fees paid to BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 Index non-executive directors were affected by changes in committee of which the company is a constituent.
The values of the hypothetical membership and the number of transatlantic meetings for which an 100 holdings at the end of the five-year period were 141.75 and attendance allowance was paid.
In 2009 the chairman reviewed non-executive director remuneration taking into account the review completed in 2008.
The chairman made a recommendation to the board which was agreed to maintain the 2008 structure until a further review in 2010.
