We are now going further, strengthening the culture BP Annual Review 2009 within BP through a commitment to continuous Our strategy improvement in operations and enhancing the capabilities, technical expertise and organizational quality needed to drive performance.
Enhanced performance and ef ciency Our strategy aims to create value for shareholders by investing to deliver growth in our Exploration Sustaining momentum and Production business together with enhanced ef ciency and high-quality earnings and returns and growth throughout our operations.
In Exploration and Production our strategy is to invest to grow production safely, reliably and ef ciently by strengthening our portfolio of leadership positions in the worlds most proli c hydrocarbon basins, enabled by the development and application of technology and strong relationships based on mutual advantage.
We The priorities that drove our success in intend to sustainably drive cost and capital ef ciency in accessing, nding, developing and producing resources, 2009 safety, people and performance enabled by deep technical capability and a culture of remain the foundation of our agenda as continuous improvement.
we build on our momentum and work to In Re ning and Marketing our strategic focus is on enhancing portfolio quality, integrating activities further enhance our competitive position.
across value chains and performance ef ciency.
We expect to continue building our business around Safe, reliable and compliant operations remain first priority.
advantaged assets in material and signi cant energy Strong emphasis on continuous improvement.
markets while improving the safety and reliability of our Exploration and Production remains core vehicle for growth.
Our objective is to achieve sector-leading levels of performance on a sustainable basis.
To achieve this, we need to continue upgrading the manufacturing Our strategy is to invest competitively to grow oil and capabilities within our integrated fuels value chains to gas production while working to drive performance achieve the best capacity utilization and margin capture.
across the group through enhanced operating ef ciency, We continue to explore appropriate opportunities to capital ef ciency and cost ef ciency.
deploy downstream capital into faster-growing nonTo meet growing world demand, BP is committed OECD markets.
We also intend to continue our selective to exploring, developing and producing more fossil fuel investment in our international businesses, which include resources: manufacturing, processing and delivering petrochemicals and lubricants, where we see potential to better and more advanced products: and enabling the deliver strong and sustainable returns.
We aim to do this In Alternative Energy we have focused our while operating safely, reliably and in compliance with investments in the areas where we believe we can the law.
We strive to run our business within the create the greatest competitive advantage.
We have discipline of a clear financial framework.
substantial businesses in wind and solar power and In 2009 we improved our overall competitive are developing advanced biofuels and clean energy performance by enhancing operating performance technologies such as hydrogen power and carbon and reducing complexity and costs.
Our intention is capture and storage.
We believe that this focused to generate and sustain business momentum and portfolio has the potential to be a material source growth through a rigorous process of continuous of value creation for BP in the longer term.
improvement and an ongoing focus on safety, people and performance.
Looking ahead We intend to play a central role in meeting the worlds Safety, reliability, compliance and continued need for hydrocarbons.
We are creating continuous improvement long-term options for the future in new energy Safe, reliable and compliant operations remain the technology and low-carbon energy businesses.
We are groups first priority.
A key enabler for this is the BP also enhancing our capabilities in natural gas, which is operating management system OMS, which provides likely to be a vital source of relatively clean energy during a common framework for all BP operations, designed the transition to a lower-carbon economy and beyond.
to achieve consistency and continuous improvement in We intend to lead and shape this transition while working safety and ef ciency.
Alongside mandatory practices to achieve sector-leading levels of return for shareholders.
to address particular risks, OMS enables each site to focus on the most important risks in its own operations and sets out procedures on how to manage them in How we create value accordance with the group-wide framework.
Powerful Deep technical A highly diverse The right people, skills and capability partnerships capability and energy portfolio, Despite a tight global recruitment market for some of grounded in mutual culture of pioneering energy our core technical disciplines, we have been successful advantage.
continuous ef ciency and improvement.
in building capacity and getting the right people with the right skills in the right place.
10 1 US 12 We have now restored every major unit at our Texas City re nery.
All BP-operated re neries and petrochemicals plants are now operating on the BP OMS.
2 China Puri ed terephthalic acid PTA is an essential raw material in the manufacture of plastic bottles and polyester clothes.
BP has a very strong manufacturing position in the largest PTA market China.
Our Zhuhai 2 plant is the worlds largest single-train unit and one of the lowest-cost PTA manufacturing units in the world.
3 UK 3 On the Clair platform in the North Sea.
The culture of continuous improvement in our North Sea drilling team helped improve drilling capital ef ciencies in 2009.
4 US Employees in our trading centre, Houston.
Our focus on getting the right people with the right skills in the right place is helping to drive ef ciency, momentum and growth.
5 Brazil Cane harvest at our Brazilian biofuels joint venture, which completed its first 12 months of operations in 2009.
This was a key milestone in a year when BPs biofuels business was voted Biofuels Corporation of the Year by the World Re ning Association.
