Directors Report by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be 3.
Investment management and income risks made in respect of employees.
The Board fully endorses dividends Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved in the In addition to the risk of the mis-management of funds making of its investments.
by poor investment decisions, there is also a risk involved in income.
The Companys objective is capital The Companys financial reports are printed by a growth and as explained in the Chairmans Statement company which has won awards for its environmental on page 4, the Portfolio Manager is not constrained in awareness and further details of this may be found on any way to determine the level of income.
The Board the back cover of this report.
Financial reports and other monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed publicly available documentation are also available on income reports and forecasts which are considered the Companys website www.
about Fidelitys own community involvement may be found on its website www.
Share price, NAV and discount volatility risk The price of the Companys shares relative to the Socially responsible investment benchmark Index and in absolute terms, as well as The Managers primary objective is to produce superior its discount to net asset value, are not factors the financial returns to investors.
It believes that high Company is able to control.
Some short term influence standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make over the discount may be exercised by the use of share good business sense and have the potential to protect repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of repurchases and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, its during the year are given on page 20.
The Companys investment process takes social, environmental and share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have daily by the Manager and considered by the Board at a material impact on either investment risk or return.
The Manager recognises and supports the view that 5.
Gearing risk social, environmental and ethical best practice should The Company has the option to invest up to the total be encouraged so long as the potential for financial of its loan facilities in equities.
In a rising market the return is not reduced.
It favours companies committed Company will benefit but in a falling market the impact to high standards of CSR and to the principles of would be detrimental.
In order to manage the level of sustainable development.
gearing the Board regularly considers gearing and gearing risk and sets limits accordingly.
The Portfolio The Manager does not set out to manage an ethical Manager follows these and may hold short term cash investment fund and does not screen out companies deposits to control the level of net gearing appropriate from its investment universe purely on the grounds of to the circumstances as viewed at the time.
poor social, environmental or subjective ethical records.
Instead it adopts a positive engagement approach 6.
Control systems, regulation, governance whereby social, environmental and ethical matters are including shareholder relations risks discussed with management with the aim of improving The Company is dependent on the Managers control procedures and attitudes.
The Manager believes that systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both this is the most effective way to improve the attitude of which are monitored and managed by the Manager of business towards CSR and the Board endorses in the context of the Companys assets and interests this approach.
The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures and the maintenance of DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL investment trust status under s842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, among other things, rely DIVIDENDS on the effective operation of such systems.
These are The Directors have approved the payment of an interim regularly tested and a programme of internal audits dividend of 22.50p per share with a payment date of is carried out by the Manager to maintain standards.
31 March 2010 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 March 2010 ex-dividend date Other risks 3 March 2010 2008: final dividend of 23.26p and special Other risks monitored on a regular basis include loan dividend of 13.24p.
No final dividend is proposed.
covenants, which are subject to daily monitoring, together with the Companys cash position, and the SHARE CAPITAL continuation vote at a time of poor performance.
The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
As at 31 December 2009, Environmental, employee, social and 51,116,605 shares were in issue.
Each share in issue community matters carries one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting The Company is an investment trust which is managed rights and details of arrangements by which someone by FIL Investments International.
The Company has no other than the shareholder can exercise voting rights employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, in respect of this years Annual General Meeting are the Companys day to day activities being carried out Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 19 Directors Report detailed in the Notes to the Notice of Meeting on ensure that the supplier is aware of these terms and to pages 54 to 57. abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The Company did not have any trade creditors in the year 2008: nil.
SHARE CAPITAL SHARE REPURCHASES AND SHARE ISSUES MANAGEMENT COMPANY Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2008 Annual During the year to 31 December 2009, the Manager, FIL General Meeting 1,727,996 ordinary shares of 25p each Investments International, a subsidiary of FIL Limited, were repurchased for cancellation between 1 January provided management, accounting, administrative and 2009 and 18 May 2009.
At the Annual General Meeting secretarial services to the Company pursuant to the held on 19 May 2009 the Companys shareholders Management Agreement dated 1 January 2007. passed a special resolution which granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 8,061,000 ordinary shares For the year ended 31 December 2009, the Management in the market for cancellation.
Pursuant to this authority, Agreement provided a quarterly base fee of 0.2125% of during the period 19 May 2009 to 31 December 2009 net assets 2008: same.
The Management Agreement a further 2,070,609 ordinary 25p shares were excludes the value of any investment in any other fund repurchased for cancellation.
In aggregate the total which is managed by the Manager or an Associate of the shares repurchased during the year ended 31 December Manager in the calculation of fees.
There is no additional 2009 was 3,798,605 7.4% of the issued share capital as company secretarial fee 2008: same.
In addition there is at 31 December 2009 for a total consideration of an annual performance related fee of 20% of any change 37,913,000 2008: 51,106,000. in net asset value in excess of the returns on the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index plus 0.5%.
Both the net asset As at 31 December 2009, the total number of shares in value and Index will be calculated on a total return basis, issue was 51,116,605 2008: 54,915,210.
The authority while the net asset value per share will be based on the to repurchase shares expires on 18 May 2010 and a weighted average number of shares in issue.
special resolution to renew the authority in respect of up to 14.99% of the issued share capital as at 5 March In the event of underperformance of the NAV relative 2010 will be put to shareholders for approval at the to the benchmark Index in any year, no performance fee forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
will be payable for a subsequent accounting year unless and until such and all cumulative underperformance has Since the year end, a further fifteen share repurchases been made good.
The performance related fee will be have been made totalling 998,949 ordinary 25p shares.
subject to an upper limit of 1.5% of net assets.
If The issued share capital as at 5 March 2010 was performance is such that the performance related fee 50,117,656.
No share issues were made during the year would exceed this cap, any excess outperformance will 2008: nil.
be carried forward and offset against any future underperformance deficit but will not be counted GEARING towards future performance related fees.
For the year The loans currently in place are as follows: ended 31 December 2009 no performance fee was 40m at a fixed interest rate of 3.23% repayable payable 2008: 7,458,000. on 22 June 2010 with Lloyds TSB Bank plc: 65m at a fixed interest rate of 4.38% repayable The Board reviews the services provided by the Manager on 15 December 2011 with Barclays Bank PLC: and and also the terms of the Management Agreement on a nil drawn down of a 25m revolving credit facility regular basis.
The Management Agreement will continue with Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
The facility expires on unless and until terminated by either party giving to the 15 December 2011. other not less than six months notice in writing.
The Management Agreement may, however, be terminated The Board is of the opinion that the use of a revolving without compensation if the Company is liquidated in credit facility for part of its gearing will enable the Portfolio 2010, or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to Manager to manage the portfolio in a more flexible the procedures laid down in the Articles of Association manner depending on his views of the market at the time.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Management Agreement may also be terminated The Company has not made any political or charitable forthwith as a result of a material breach of the donations in the year 2008: nil.
Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may terminate the PAYMENT OF CREDITORS agreement by six months notice if the Manager ceases The Companys principal supplier is the Manager who to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the Board shall is paid in the month following the end of each calendar resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that there quarter in accordance with the terms of the has been a material and continuing underperformance Management Agreement detailed opposite.
The in the portfolio of assets.
Companys policy for the year to 31 December 2010 2009: same for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment The Management Engagement Committee met on 14 when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to January 2010 and reviewed the performance of the Page 20 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Manager for the year to 31 December 2009.
Further under this arrangement are credited to capital.
In the details of this review are included in the Companys year to 31 December 2009, 178,000 was received Corporate Governance Statement on page 29.
Committee concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the appointment of the Manager The Company participates in the Managers interfund should continue.
The Manager also provides certain programme whereby Fidelitys traders, on occasion, services, including marketing and administration, in identify situations where one fund managed by Fidelity connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is buying the same security that another fund is selling.
and the Fidelity Individual Savings Account under an If a trader can confirm that it would be in the interests agreement dated 4 March 1996.
The amount payable of both accounts to execute a transaction between for these services for the year to 31 December 2009 them rather than in the market then an interfund was 183,575 2008: 167,764.
If the amount paid by transaction is executed.
the Manager for the provision of these services by third parties is less than this amount, the balance is carried There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to forward to cover the cost of the provision of these obtain best execution and no individual deal is entered services in future years.
An amount of 1,466,180 2008: into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
1,471,116 was due to the Manager under the above agreements at 31 December 2009 and is included in Mr Fraser was employed by Fidelity International until other creditors in Note 11 to the financial statements the end of December 2008.
Mr Fraser is a Director of on page 43.
Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
The Company has a current loan relationship with Barclays Bank PLC.
Mr Fidelity has adopted a broker segmentation policy Fraser has no influence over the decisions by Barclays which has reduced the number of brokers used and Bank PLC in its lending relationship with the Company.
allows it to concentrate on those brokers who, in its FIL Limited has an interest of 112,379 shares or 0.22% opinion, offer the best service in terms of overall in the Company 2008: 112,379 shares or 0.20%.
These brokers are Fidelitys core brokers.
At the same time, the Manager evaluates the research DIRECTORS provided by other brokers and uses some of them for Details of the Directors who served in the year to 31 their research.
These brokers are called Secondary State December 2009 are set out on pages 14 and 15 with a Research firms SSRs.
brief description of their careers, each of which indicates their qualifications for Board membership.
Further details As a consequence of the policy, the core brokers of the contribution made by the Directors may also be earn a larger percentage of the commission paid.
found in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
With These core brokers pay away some of the increased the exception of Dr Niblett, who was appointed on 14 commission earned to the SSRs to compensate them for January 2010 and Mr Simpson who retired on 19 May the research provided to Fidelity.
Under FSA regulations 2009, all of the Directors served throughout the year to this type of payment from one broker to another is 31 December 2009. currently treated as softing.
The Managers soft commission policy complies with the UK regulations.
Mr Walther will retire as Director and Chairman following Fidelity adopts a best execution policy that applies to the Annual General Meeting and is therefore not all transactions in all instruments, regardless of the fund standing for re-election.
Mr Fraser, due to his recent or account or location of the trading desk.
employment relationship with the Manager, is subject to annual re-election.
Mr Fraser no longer waives his The Manager has an arrangement with certain brokers entitlement to Directors fees.
Dr Niblett will be subject whereby a portion of commissions from security to election at the Annual General Meeting.
transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce transaction costs.
Amounts received by the Company DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 31 December 2009 31 December 2008 Robert Walther 12,251 12,251 No change during the year Simon Duckworth, DL 1,000 1,000 No change during the year Simon Fraser 6,908 6,837 Dividend reinvestment James Robinson 2,000 2,000 No change during the year David Simpson n a 8,172 Retired 19 May 2009 Humphrey van der Klugt 2,000 2,000 No change during the year Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 21 Directors Report Mr van der Klugt will be appointed as Chairman with As at 5 March 2010 25.48% of the issued share capital effect from the retirement of Mr Walther following was held by investors in the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Robinson will be Investment Trust Share Plan.
appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director with effect from that date.
Analysis of Ordinary Shareholders as at 31 December 2009 % of issued share capital No Director is under a contract of service with the Private individuals 52.88 Company and no contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in which any Director Mutual funds 31.36 was materially interested and which were significant Insurance companies 6.89 in relation to the Companys business, except as Pension funds 4.32 disclosed previously in relation to Mr Frasers interest in the Management Agreement and his directorship of Investment trusts 3.63 Barclays Bank PLC.
There have been no other related Trading companies 0.75 party transactions requiring disclosure under Financial Reporting Standard FRS 8.
The interests of the Hedge funds 0.10 Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at Charities 0.07 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2008 are shown on page 21.
There have been no changes in these Total 100.00 holdings since the year end with the exception of a purchase of 250 ordinary shares by Mr Duckworth.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR Information on the appointment, re-election and IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to replacement of Directors and amendments to the the action you should take, you should seek your own Companys Articles of Association is included in the personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank Corporate Governance Statement on pages 25 and 26. manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association must be made by special resolution.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting resolutions will Authority to amend to the Companys Articles of be proposed to renew the Directors authority to allot Association, as required in the main by the final securities in the Company.
The authorities sought by implementation of the Companies Act 2006 is these resolutions are to replace the existing powers of requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Directors which expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting and will provide the Directors with the DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they deem it INSURANCE appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless global Directors and Officers insurance arrangements, authorised to do so by shareholders.
Resolution 7 the Company maintained insurance cover for its provides the Directors with a general authority to allot Directors and Officers under its own policy as permitted securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal by the Companies Act 2006. value of 626,250.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 2,505,000 ordinary SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS shares which represents approximately 5% of the As at 5 March 2010 notification had been received issued ordinary share capital of the Company as of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting at 5 March 2010. rights of the Company: This authority provides the Directors with a degree of Shareholder % flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the 1 issue of new shares should any favourable opportunities FIL Limited 26.00 arise to the advantage of shareholders.
If new ordinary 2 Legal & General Investment Management 3.97 shares are allotted for cash, the Companies Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered to existing 1 Including investments through the Fidelity ISA and the holders of ordinary shares pre-emption rights.
In Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan certain circumstances it is beneficial for the Directors to 2 Direct holding for various Legal & General entities allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the Companies Act 2006 provides for shareholders to give such power to the Directors by waiving their pre-emption rights.
Page 22 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Resolution 8 is a special resolution disapplying preCORPORATE GOVERNANCE emption rights and granting authority to the Directors, Full details are given in the Corporate Governance without the need for further specific shareholder Statement on pages 25 to 30.
The Corporate approval, to make allotments of equity securities for cash Governance Statement forms part of this Directors by way of a rights issues where practical considerations, Report.
such as fractions and foreign securities laws, make this desirable, and b other issues up to an aggregate AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION nominal value of 626,250 approximately 5% of the As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 issued share capital of the Company as at 5 March 2010. the Directors in office as at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant The authority to issue ordinary shares for cash under audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and Resolution 7 will, inter alia, enable the Directors to issue each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have additional new ordinary shares to participants in the been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA any relevant audit information and to establish that the in the event that the ordinary shares are trading at a Auditor is aware of that information.
premium to their net asset value.
The Directors would only intend to use this power if such premium were in AUDITORS APPOINTMENT excess of 2% and they considered that it was in the A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as interests of shareholders to do so.
Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting together with a Resolution 9 is a special resolution which renews the resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys shares Auditors remuneration.
It is proposed that the Board be authorised to make arrangements to purchase through By order of the Board the London Stock Exchange up to 7,512,000 ordinary FIL Investments International shares of 25 pence each equivalent to 14.99% of the 5 March 2010 shares in issue at 5 March 2010.
By utilising this power to repurchase shares when they are trading at a discount to net asset value, the Company will increase the resulting net asset value per share for remaining shareholders.
Purchases of shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value.
Resolution 10 is a special resolution amending the Companys Articles of Association to include a number of changes required by the further and final implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting contained on pages 53 to 57.
Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 23
