Managers Review FIL Investments International Sudipto Banerji age 41 The Company is managed by FIL Investments International is a portfolio manager with FIL Investment Services UK which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Limited based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since Authority.
FIL Investments International is part of the FIL 2000, when he joined as a research analyst.
He managed Limited group which, as at 31 December 2009, had total Fidelitys Industrials Fund and became Portfolio Manager assets under management exceeding 130 billion.
As the year progressed, market sentiment was improved PERFORMANCE REVIEW As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the by news that most Eurozone economies came out of recession in the second and third quarters of 2009, NAV per share of Fidelity European Values PLC increased 11.3% in the year to 31 December 2009, somewhat earlier than expected.
This encouraged investors to move into more cyclical sectors such as underperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which rose by 19.1%.
All performance figures are materials and industrial stocks and to ignore more defensive shares such as utilities and healthcare.
quoted on a total return basis and in sterling.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW Whilst generating positive absolute returns, the portfolio underperformed the broader market.
During the period, There were two major themes underlying portfolio activity in 2009.
Firstly, the Manager concentrated the investors started to take on more risk and more volatile, lower quality stocks with weaker balance sheets portfolio on shares with strong balance sheets and where there was strong confidence in the quality of underlying performed strongly.
Companies with stronger underlying fundamentals and sound balance sheets were out of profits.
This move was based on a belief that any economic recovery in Europe would be slow and might favour.
The portfolio is tilted towards the latter and suffered as a result.
The second theme was, as indicated in the chart on page 7, to move out of shares in the MARKET BACKGROUND peripheral markets such as Greece and Spain and to switch these assets into shares in the core Eurozone The beginning of the year saw turmoil in the financial markets as investors continued to sell banks on both markets such as Germany and France.
Both these themes have been retained in the first quarter of 2010. sides of the Atlantic.
Risk aversion was high and ratings agencies concerns over the exposure of Western Telecommunication companies lagged the more cyclical European banks to Eastern European markets, in view of the latters external financing issues, exacerbated the sectors, so exposure to stocks such as Belgacom and France Telecom detracted from relative performance.
A significant contributor to relative performance was Unprecedented and co-ordinated global action by Central Banks stemmed the spiralling crisis in financial the overweight position in materials, particularly holdings in Umicore and Outokumpu.
The sector had sold off markets.
The dominant form of support was in quantitative easing measures that allowed the heavily in the latter quarters of 2008, but began to outperform in 2009 as market and economic sentiment monetisation of some of the largest fiscal deficits in post war history.
Additionally, in an unprecedented move, improved.
Apparel retailer Hennes & Mauritzs performance proved resilient Central Banks took risky assets onto their balance sheets from the worst affected banks.
This provided the backsupported by a robust business model.
Luxury retailer PPR contributed as its first-half profits beat analysts drop for equities to rally.
estimates, helped by strengthening luxury product sales in Asia.
Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Managers Review Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Core Eurozone Eastern Europe & Other Western Europe Non-Eurozone Peripheral Eurozone -9 -6 -3 0369 12 15 Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2009 Western Europe NonPeripheral Eurozone Eastern Europe & Core Eurozone Eurozone comprises comprises Other comprises comprises Norway Spain Israel Italy Sweden Austria Poland Germany Switzerland Finland Hungary Netherlands Denmark Ireland Russia France Greece USA Belgium Portugal OUTLOOK The recovery in equity markets and particularly of smaller European governments have succeeded generally more volatile stocks has been driven by an expansion in in stabilising their economies but at the expense of the price to earnings ratio.
In 2010, corporate earnings increasing very considerably the level of public debt.
will need to grow to support these higher valuations.
The capacity of the public sector to continue to increase While the earnings cycle appears to have troughed, debt is rapidly diminishing and markets will soon require any rebound in earnings is likely to be slower than in clear action by these governments to start to reduce previous recoveries.
It is against this background that their deficits.
While low interest rates have so far the portfolio retains its focus on stronger companies supported the markets, further positive moves may whose balance sheets and business models should be challenged by significantly increasing supplies of prove resilient in the continued uncertain environment.
FIL Investments International 5 March 2010 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 7
