BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Our strategy Refining and Marketing Our purpose is to be the productand service-led arm of BP, focused on fuels, lubricants, petrochemicals products and related services.
We aim Our Refining and Marketing business is responsible for the supply and trading, refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude to be excellent in the markets we choose to be in those that allow BP oil, petroleum, petrochemicals products and related services to to serve the major energy markets of the world.
We are in pursuit of wholesale and retail customers.
BP markets its products in more than competitive returns and enduring growth, as we serve customers and promote BP and our brands through quality products.
We have significant operations in Europe and North America and also manufacture and market our products across We believe that key to our continued success in Refining and Australasia, in China and other parts of Asia, Africa and Central and Marketing is holding a portfolio of quality, integrated, efficient positions South America.
and accessing available market growth in emerging markets.
We intend to do this through holding positions in advantaged integrated FVCs where Our organization is managed through two main business groupings: fuels value chains FVCs and international businesses IBs.
we will invest to strengthen our established positions.
We also intend to The FVCs integrate the activities of refining, logistics, marketing, supply retain and grow our IBs.
and trading, on a regional basis, recognizing the geographic nature of the In 2007, we identified that the segments financial performance lagged that of our competitors, based on our analysis of our position markets in which we compete.
This provides the opportunity to optimize our activities from crude oil purchases to end-consumer sales through our compared with our supermajor peers, and we launched a programme to physical assets refineries, terminals, pipelines and retail stations.
The restore our financial performance.
Our objective was to restore our IBs include the manufacturing, supply and marketing of lubricants, performance over a period of three to four years by focusing on achieving safe, reliable and compliant operations, restoring missing revenues and petrochemicals, aviation fuels and liquefied petroleum gas LPG.
delivering sustainable competitive returns and cash flows.
Our market We believe our overall performance has now returned to being The 2009 operating environment was again challenging.
Global oil competitive with our supermajor peers, but that there is significant potential for further performance improvements.
In the future, we intend demand contracted by approximately 1.3 million barrels per day with demand in the OECD falling for the fourth consecutive year.
Crude oil to build on this by focusing on further improvements in operations, asset prices more than doubled during the course of the year, from a dated quality and overall efficiency, in order to be a leading player in each of the Brent price of $36.55 per barrel on 1 January 2009 to $77.67 per barrel at markets in which we choose to participate.
the end of 2009, contributing to margin volatility.
Refining margins fell sharply in 2009 as demand for oil products Our performance reduced in the wake of the global economic recession and new refining Our 2009 performance has benefited from the fundamental capacity came onstream, mostly in Asia.
During 2009, distillate improvements we have been making across the business, including the measures we have taken to restore the availability of our refining system, inventories were consistently above the top of the range of the past five years.
Gasoline inventories grew steadily and were generally at or slightly reduce costs and simplify the organization.
The replacement cost profit above the average level of the past five years.
As a result, the BP global before interest and tax was $0.7 billion for 2009, compared with indicator refining margin GIM averaged $4 per barrel in 2009, down $4.2 billion in 2008.
The result was heavily impacted by non-operating items, which included a significant level of restructuring charges and a $2.50 per barrel compared with 2008, with the average for the fourthquarter of 2009 at only $1.49 per barrel, the lowest for almost 15 years.
$1.6 billion one-off charge to write off all the segments goodwill in the This margin decline had a significant adverse impact on the financial US West Coast FVC relating to our 2000 ARCO acquisition.
This resulted performance of the segment.
from our annual review of goodwill as required under IFRS and reflects the prevailing weak refining environment that, together with a review of In Europe, where diesel accounts for a large proportion of regional demand, refining margins were hit by reduced demand from commercial future margin expectations in the FVC, has led to a reduction in the transport because of the economic recession.
In the US, where refining is expected future cash flows.
The decrease in profit was also driven by the more highly upgraded and the transport market is more gasoline oriented, very significantly weaker environment, where refining margins fell by almost 40%.
This was partly offset by significantly stronger operational margins deteriorated less.
Refining margins in Asia Pacific were the hardest hit due to substantial additions to refining capacity in the region.
performance in the fuels value chains, with 93.6% Solomon refining During 2009, upgrading margins were particularly poor due to availability, lower costs and improved performance in the international stronger relative fuel oil prices and narrow light-heavy crude spreads.
Our financial results are discussed in more detail on adversely impacted our highly upgraded refineries and had an adverse pages 56-57. impact on our financial performance in 2009 compared with 2008.
Safety, both process and personal, remains our top priority.
During The end of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 saw unprecedented 2009, we continued the migration to the BP operating management levels of market volatility, driven by turmoil in the financial sector and system OMS with a continuing focus on process safety.
The OMS is disruptions in the supply chain resulting from the economic downturn.
described in further detail in Safety see page 46.
At the end of 2009, all our operated refineries and petrochemicals plants were using the OMS.
This high level of volatility, combined with our proprietary asset base and trading skills, enabled us to deliver a particularly strong supply and trading Within our US refineries, we continued to implement the result in the first quarter of 2009.
Subsequent to the first quarter, recommendations of the BP US Refineries Independent Safety Review volatility returned to more normal levels.
Panel and regulatory bodies further information can be found in Safety on page 46 and in Legal proceedings on page 99.
The focus on In our IBs, we saw a decline in demand for lubricants due to the financial crisis.
During the year we saw a partial recovery in the demand operational integrity continues to yield positive results across the for our petrochemicals products.
Since 2005, when we started identifying incidents by type, we have reduced the overall number of major incidents by 90%.
None of the major incidents reported in 2009 was integrity-management related.
We have also reduced the number of reported oil spills and the recordable injury frequency in our workforce to the lowest level for 10 years.
In 2009, there were no reported workforce fatalities associated with our refining and marketing operations.
36 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review In 2009, despite the impact on our overall results of the weak refining Sales and other operating revenues are analysed in more detail below.
environment, our focus on operations delivered significant performance $ million improvements, both financial and operational.
Solomon availability for the 2009 2008 2007 year was around five percentage points higher than in 2008.
Average Sale of crude oil through spot and throughputs were up by over 130,000b d compared with 2008, an term contracts 35,625 54,901 43,004 increase of more than 6%.
In addition, 2009 has seen further Marketing, spot and term sales improvements at our Texas City refinery.
Production has ramped up of refined products 166,088 248,561 194,979 steadily during the year and availability has increased each quarter.
During Other sales and operating revenues 11,337 16,577 12,238 April 2009, the sites Solomon availability exceeded 90% for the first time in four years.
213,050 320,039 250,221 Our financial performance also benefited from lower nona feedstock costs.
In 2009, our total costs were over 15% lower than in Oil sales volumes 2008.
In addition we reduced our headcount, excluding retail store staff, thousand barrels per day by over 2,600 see Financial statements Note 39 on page 174.
Refined products 2009 2008 2007 a US 1,426 1,460 1,533 Based on Refining and Marketings share of production and manufacturing expenses plus distribution and administration expenses.
Europe 1,504 1,566 1,633 Rest of World 630 685 640 Key statistics a Total marketing sales 3,560 3,711 3,806 b $ million Trading supply sales 2,327 1,987 1,818 2009 2008 2007 Total refined product sales 5,887 5,698 5,624 a Sales and other operating revenues 213,050 320,039 250,221 Crude oil 1,824 1,689 1,885 Replacement cost profit before Total oil sales 7,711 7,387 7,509 b interest and tax 743 4,176 2,621 a Marketing sales are sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and jobbers i. e. third Total assets 82,224 75,329 95,311 parties who own networks of a number of service stations and small resellers.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions 4,114 6,634 5,495 b Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
thousand barrels per day Total refinery throughputs 2,287 2,155 2,127 The following table sets out marketing sales by major product group.
thousand tonnes c thousand barrels per day Total chemicals production 12,391 12,518 14,028 Marketing sales by refined product 2009 2008 2007 $ per barrel d Aviation fuel 495 501 490 Global indicator refining margin 4.00 6.50 9.94 Gasolines 1,444 1,500 1,572 e Refining availability 93.6% 88.8% 82.9% Middle distillates 1,012 1,055 1,119 a Includes sales between businesses.
Fuel oil 418 460 429 b Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
c Other products 191 195 196 A minor amendment has been made to comparative periods.
d The global indicator refining margin GIM is the average of regional industry indicator margins Total marketing sales 3,560 3,711 3,806 weighted for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
Each regional indicator margin is based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
The indicator margin may not be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any Marketing volumes were 3,560mb d, slightly lower than last year, period because of BPs particular refining configurations and crude and product slate.
reflecting the impact of slowing global economies on demand for fuel e Refining availability represents Solomon Associates operational availability, which is defined as the percentage of the year that a unit is available for processing after subtracting the annualized time and the volume effects of our business simplification.
lost due to turnaround activity and all planned mechanical, process and regulatory maintenance downtime.
Outlook For 2010, although demand has stabilized, the overall economic environment is expected to continue to be very challenging with continuing pressure on the demand for our products and on margins.
In response, our priorities in 2010 remain consistent with those in 2009 and we intend to build on the momentum we have established around improving financial performance and operations.
We will continue to focus on delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations, improving the performance of our integrated FVCs, in particular in the US, and driving further cost efficiencies across all our businesses.
We intend to maintain investment at 2009 levels, focused on key safety and operational integrity priorities, maintaining our quality manufacturing and marketing portfolio, strengthening our US Mid-West FVC business through the Whiting refinery modernization project and continuing to grow our advantaged petrochemicals business in China.
37 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Refineries Fuels value chains BPs global refining strategy is to own and operate strategically We have six regionally organized integrated FVCs, covering the West advantaged refineries that benefit from vertical integration with our Coast and Mid-West regions of the US, the Rhine region, Southern marketing and trading operations, as well as synergies with other parts of Africa, Australasia ANZ and Iberia.
Each of these is a material business, the groups business.
Our refining focus is to maintain and improve our optimizing activities across the supply chain from crude delivery to the competitive position through sustainable, safe, reliable, compliant and refineries: manufacture of high-quality fuels to meet market demand: efficient operations of the refining system and disciplined investment for pipeline and terminal infrastructure and marketing and sales to our integrity management, to achieve competitively advantaged configuration customers.
The Texas City refinery is not part of an integrated FVC but is and growth.
operated as a standalone, predominantly merchant, refining business that For BP, the strategic advantage of a refinery relates to its location, also supports our marketing operations on the east and Gulf coasts of scale and configuration to produce fuels from lower-cost feedstocks in the US.
line with the demand of the region.
Strategic investments in our We also have a number of regionally focused fuels marketing refineries are focused on securing the safety and reliability of our assets businesses that are not integrated into a refinery, covering the UK, France while improving our competitive position.
In addition, we continue to and Turkey.
invest to develop the capability to produce the cleaner fuels that meet In 2009, the FVCs accounted for roughly three-quarters of the the requirements of our customers and their communities.
a operating capital employed in Refining and Marketing and generated just under half of the profit, after adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Without these adjustments, the result for the FVCs was a significant loss in 2009, with the most significant factor being the impairment charge to write off all the segments goodwill in the West Coast fuels value chain.
Significant events in the FVCs in 2009 were as follows: In February 2009, a new 20,000b d coker was commissioned at our Castelln refinery in Spain.
This was the culmination of a four-year project to convert the Castelln refinery to one capable of upgrading all fuel oil to higher value products.
This will allow the refinery to produce about 50% more diesel than it did before, for sale to the local Spanish market and will also improve the ability of the refinery to process higher-margin heavy crude oils.
The Whiting refinery modernization project is more than one year into construction.
The engineering design is now almost complete and many of the large foundations are in place.
For further details on permit issues relating to our planned upgrades see Environment on page 49.
In July 2009, BP announced that it would not be progressing with the project with Irving Oil to build a refinery at Eider Rock in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada as a result of global economic and industry conditions.
In December 2009, BP completed the sale of our ground fuels marketing business in Greece, to Hellenic Petroleum for $0.5 billion.
The sale included a BP brand licence agreement for at least three years.
In November 2007, BP announced that it would sell all of its company-owned and company-operated convenience sites in the US.
The sites will be supplied with BP or ARCO branded fuels under a 20-year contract and will continue to market BP-branded fuels in the eastern US and ARCO-branded fuels in the western US.
By the end of 2009, we were no longer operating any of these sites and had completed the sale of all but around 30.
In the fourth quarter of 2009, we announced that we would explore options to divest a number of non-strategic pipelines and terminals in the US Mid-West, Gulf Coast and West Coast during 2010 and 2011.
In February 2010, we announced that we had received an offer from Delek Europe B. V. for the retail fuels and convenience business and selected fuels terminals in France.
As a result, BP has agreed a period of exclusivity with Delek Europe B. V. to negotiate the terms for the sale and to allow consultation with the relevant works councils.
Any transaction will be subject to regulatory approval.
Any transaction is expected to include a BP brand licence agreement.
a Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, excluding finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
38 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review The following table summarizes the BP groups interests in refineries and average daily crude distillation capacities at 31 December 2009.
In July 2009, BP disposed of its 17.1% interest in Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd to Essar Energy Overseas Ltd. thousand barrels per day a Crude distillation capacities b Group interest BP Refinery Fuels value chain % Total share Europe Germany Bayernoil Rhine 22.5% 215 48 c Gelsenkirchen Rhine 50.0% 266 133 Karlsruhe Rhine 12.0% 323 39 c Lingen Rhine 100.0% 93 93 Schwedt Rhine 18.8% 226 42 c Netherlands Rotterdam Rhine 100.0% 386 386 c Spain Castelln Iberia 100.0% 110 110 Total Europe 1,619 851 US c California Carson US West Coast 100.0% 265 265 c Washington Cherry Point US West Coast 100.0% 234 234 c Indiana Whiting US Mid-West 100.0% 405 405 c Ohio Toledo US Mid-West 50.0% 160 80 c Texas Texas City 100.0% 475 475 Total US 1,539 1,459 Rest of World c Australia Bulwer ANZ 100.0% 102 102 c Kwinana ANZ 100.0% 137 137 New Zealand Whangerei ANZ 23.7% 112 27 South Africa Durban Southern Africa 50.0% 180 90 Total Rest of World 531 356 Total 3,689 2,666 a Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the highest average sustained unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period.
b BP share of equity, which is not necessarily the same as BP share of processing entitlements.
c Indicates refineries operated by BP.
The following table outlines by region the volume of crude oil and feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
Corresponding BP refinery capacity utilization data is summarized.
thousand barrels per day a Refinery throughputs 2009 2008 2007 US 1,238 1,121 1,064 Europe 755 739 758 Rest of World 294 295 305 Total 2,287 2,155 2,127 Refinery capacity utilization b Crude distillation capacity at 31 December 2,666 2,678 2,769 c Refinery utilization 86% 81% 77% US 85% 77% 69% Europe 89% 87% 88% Rest of World 83% 80% 83% a Refinery throughputs reflect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
b Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the highest average sustained unit rate for a consecutive 30-day period.
c Refinery utilization is annual throughput divided by crude distillation capacity, expressed as a percentage.
The measure has been redefined in 2009 to be more consistent with industry standards.
Prior periods have been restated.
39 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Refining throughputs in 2009 increased by 6% relative to 2008, driven The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using standard principally by improved operational performance in the US.
Higher US contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea crude throughputs were largely attributable to the recovery at the Texas City blend Brent, Forties and Osberg or BFO.
Although the contracts specify refinery, partially offset by the reduced equity interest in the Toledo physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant volume are not refinery stemming from the Husky joint venture.
The contracts typically contain standard delivery, pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract specifies a standard Supply and trading volume and tolerance given that the physically settled transactions are The group has a long-established integrated supply and trading function delivered by cargo.
Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange responsible for delivering value across the overall crude and oil products cash flows between two parties: a typical swap transaction usually supply chain.
This structure enables the optimization of BPs FVCs to references a floating price and a fixed price with the net difference of the maintain a single interface with the oil trading markets and to operate cash flows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the with a single set of trading compliance processes, systems and controls.
obligation, to buy or sell crude or oil products at a specified price on or The business is organized along global commodity lines and with trading before a specific future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial offices in Europe, the US and Asia, the function is able to maintain a instruments are settled at expiry, typically through netting agreements, presence in the regionally connected global markets.
The supply and to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
trading function has supported the Refining and Marketing segment through a period of higher volatility of crude and oil product prices and Spot and term contracts increased credit risk following the global financial crisis.
Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell crude and oil products at The function seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our the market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to crude oil, source optimal feedstocks for our refineries and provide the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a competitive supply for our marketing businesses.
In addition, where commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and refinery production is surplus to marketing requirements or can be term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting sourced more competitively, it is sold into the market.
Wherever possible, mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with the group will look to optimize value across the supply chain.
For operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts relate typically to example, BP will often sell its own crude production into the market purchases of crude for a refinery, purchases of products for marketing, and purchase alternative crude for its refineries where this will provide sales of the groups oil production and sales of the groups oil products.
For accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and Along with the supply activity described above, the function seeks other operating revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term to create incremental trading opportunities.
It enters into the full range of purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
exchange-traded commodity derivatives, over-the-counter OTC contracts and spot and term contracts that are described in detail below.
In order to Fuels marketing and logistics facilitate the generation of trading margin from arbitrage, blending and Our fuels strategy focuses on optimizing the integrated value of each FVC storage opportunities, it also both owns and contracts for storage and that is responsible for the delivery of ground fuels to the market.
The group has developed a risk governance framework this by co-ordinating our marketing, refining and trading activities to to manage and oversee the financial risks associated with this trading maximize synergies across the whole value chain.
Our priorities are to activity, which is described in the Financial statements Note 24 on operate an advantaged infrastructure and logistics network which pages 144-149. includes pipelines, storage terminals and road or rail tankers, drive The range of transactions that the group enters into is described excellence in operating and transactional processes and deliver below.
compelling customer offers in the various markets where we operate.
The fuels business markets a comprehensive range of refined oil Exchange-traded commodity derivatives products primarily focused on the ground fuels sector.
These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on The ground fuels business supplies fuel and related convenience a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX, ICE and Chicago Board of services to retail consumers through company-owned and franchised Trade.
Such contracts are traded in standard specifications for the main retail sites as well as other channels including wholesalers and jobbers.
marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate and the It also supplies commercial customers within the transport and industrial main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil.
otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis Our retail network is largely concentrated in Europe and the US with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and but also has established operations in Australasia, southern and eastern risk management of both crude oil and refined products.
We are developing networks in China in two separate joint unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity derivatives ventures, one with Petrochina and the other with China Petroleum and are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting Chemical Corporation Sinopec.
Number of retail sites operated under a BP brand a b Retail sites 2009 2008 2007 OTC contracts US 11,500 11,700 12,200 These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
Europe 8,600 8,600 8,600 Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties: Rest of World 2,300 2,300 2,500 others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty.
These contracts can be used both as part of trading and risk management activities.
Total 22,400 22,600 23,300 Realized and unrealized gains and losses on OTC contracts are included a The number of retail sites includes sites not operated by BP but instead operated by dealers, in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
jobbers, franchisees or brand licensees that operate under a BP brand.
These may move to or from the BP brand as their fuel supply or brand licence agreements expire and are renegotiated in the normal course of business.
b Excludes our interest in equity-accounted entities which are dual-branded.
40 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review At 31 December 2009, BPs worldwide network consisted of some Construction of the new 500ktepa acetic acid plant in Jiangsu 22,400 sites branded BP, Amoco, ARCO and Aral, around the same as in province, China by BP YPC Acetyls Company Nanjing Limited the previous year.
We continue to improve the efficiency of our retail BYACO was completed.
This is a BP joint venture with Yangzi network and increase the consistency of our site offer through a process Petrochemical Co. Ltd a subsidiary of Sinopec.
In 2009, we sold over 600 company-owned sites to production is expected to begin in the second quarter of 2010. dealers, jobbers and franchisees who continue to operate these sites BP and Sinopec continued to progress the project to add a new acetic under the BP brand.
In addition we sold around 1,200 sites in Greece acid plant at their Yangtze River Acetyls Co. YARACO joint venture to Hellenic Petroleum, which will continue to be operated under the BP site in Chongqing, China.
This world-scale 650ktepa acetic acid plant brand through a brand licensing agreement.
We also divested around will use BPs leading Cativa technology.
The expected plant start-up 100 company-owned sites to third parties.
date is under review due to current market conditions.
When Our retail convenience operations offer consumers a range of complete, total production at the YARACO site is expected to be in food, drink and other consumables and services on the fuel forecourt in a excess of one million tonnes per annum, making this one of the convenient and innovative manner.
The convenience offer includes brands largest acetic acid production locations in the world.
such as ampm, Wild Bean Caf and Petit Bistro.
During 2009, we continued the implementation of our ampm Lubricants convenience retail franchise model in the US.
We expect this model to We manufacture and market lubricants and related products and services provide a reliable, long-term sales outlet for transport fuels from our to the automotive, industrial, marine and energy markets across the refinery systems, together with reduced costs and lower levels of capital world.
Following a decision to simplify and focus our channels of trade, investment.
Overall in the US, by the end of 2009 there were 11,500 we now sell products direct to our customers in around 46 countries and branded retail sites of which 1,200 were branded ampm, compared with use approved local distributors for the remaining locations.
Customer 11,700 and 1,100 respectively at the beginning of 2009. focus, distinctive brands, superior technology and relationships remain In Europe, we are one of the largest forecourt convenience the cornerstones of our long-term strategy.
retailers, with about 2,500 convenience retail sites in 10 countries.
BP markets primarily through its major brands of Castrol and BP, We are growing our food-on-the-go and fresh grocery services through and also the Aral brand in some specific markets.
Castrol is recognized as BP-owned brands and partnerships with leading retailers such as Marks one of the most powerful lubricants brands worldwide and we believe it & Spencer.
In addition, at the end of 2009, we had approximately 500 provides us with a significant competitive advantage.
In the automotive sites outside Europe and the US in countries such as Australia, New lubricants sector, we supply lubricants and other related products and Zealand and South Africa.
services to intermediate customers such as retailers and workshops.
These, in turn, serve end-consumers such as car, truck and motorcycle owners in the mature markets of Western Europe and North America International businesses as well as the markets of Russia, China, India, the Middle East, South Our IBs provide quality products and offers to customers in more than 80 America and Africa, which we believe have the potential for significant countries worldwide with a significant focus on Europe, North America long-term growth.
In 2009, more than 30% of pre-tax operating income and Asia.
Our products include aviation fuels, lubricants that meet the was generated from emerging markets.
needs of various industries and consumers, LPG, and a range of BP marine lubricants is one of the largest global suppliers of petrochemicals that are sold for use in the manufacture of other products lubricants to the marine industry.
We supply many types of vessels from such as fabrics, fibres and various plastics.
We believe each of these IBs bulkers to container ships to dredgers and cruise ships, with global is competitively advantaged in the markets in which we have chosen to presence in over 850 ports.
BPs industrial lubricants business is a participate.
Such advantage is derived from several factors, including leading supplier to those sectors of the market involved in the location, proximity of manufacturing assets to markets, physical asset manufacture of automobiles, trucks, machinery components and quality, operational efficiency, technology advantage and the strength of steel.
BP is also a leading supplier of lubricants for the offshore oil our brands.
Each business has a clear strategy focused on investing in its and aviation industries.
key assets and market positions in order to deliver value to its customers and outperform its competitors.
Petrochemicals In 2009, the IBs accounted for just under a quarter of the Our petrochemicals operations comprise the global Aromatics & Acetyls a segments operating capital employed and just over half the profit, after businesses A&A and the Olefins & Derivatives O&D businesses, adjusting for non-operating items and fair value accounting effects.
New investments are targeted principally in the Without these adjustments, the profit for the IBs more than offset the higher-growth Asian markets.
In A&A we manufacture and market three main product lines: Significant events in the international businesses in 2009 were: purified terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene PX and acetic acid.
Our Our expanded purified terephthalic acid PTA facility in Geel, Belgium strategy is to leverage our industry-leading technology in selected was successfully commissioned in the first quarter of 2009.
The markets, to grow the business and to deliver industry-leading returns.
expansion, which has a design capacity of 350 thousand tonnes per PTA is a raw material used in the manufacture of polyesters used in annum ktepa, has improved operating costs and by the end of 2009 fibres, textiles and film, and polyethylene terephthalate PET bottles.
had already increased the sites PTA capacity by 255ktepa.
Acetic acid is a versatile intermediate chemical used in a variety of SECCO completed its first major turnaround in the third quarter of products such as paints, adhesives and solvents, as well as its use in the 2009 and at the same time expanded production capacity, creating production of PTA.
We have a strong global market share in the PTA and Chinas largest ethylene cracker capable of producing 1.3mtpa of acetic acid markets with a major manufacturing presence in Asia, ethylene per year, an increase of 25%.
PX is a feedstock for PTA production.
In addition to these three main products, we produce a number of other speciality a Operating capital employed is total assets excluding goodwill less total liabilities, excluding petrochemicals products.
We have a total of 14 manufacturing sites finance debt and current and deferred taxation.
operating in the UK, the US, Belgium, China, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan, including our joint ventures.
In O&D, we crack naptha and ethane as feedstocks to produce ethylene and other products and derivatives, within equity-accounted entities.
41 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Our O&D business has operations in both China and Malaysia.
In China, Other businesses and corporate our SECCO joint venture between BP, Sinopec and its subsidiary, Shanghai Petrochemical Company, is the largest olefins cracker in China.
Other businesses and corporate comprises the Alternative Energy SECCO is BPs single largest investment in China.
This naphtha cracker business, Shipping, the groups aluminium asset, Treasury which produces ethylene and propylene plus derivatives acrylonitrile, includes interest income on the groups cash and cash equivalents, and polyethylene, polypropylene, styrene, polystyrene, butadiene and other corporate activities worldwide.
In Malaysia, BP participates in two joint ventures: Ethylene The financial results of Other businesses and corporate are Malaysia Sdn.
EMSB, which produces ethylene from gas feedstock discussed on page 57. in a joint venture between BP, Petronas and Idemitsu: while Polyethylene Malaysia Sdn.
PEMSB produces polyethylene in a joint venture Key statistics between BP and Petronas.
BP also owns one other naphtha cracker $ million site outside of Asia, which is integrated with our Gelsenkirchen 2009 2008 2007 a refinery in Germany.
Sales and other operating revenues 2,843 4,634 3,698 The following table shows BPs petrochemicals production Replacement cost profit loss before b capacity at 31 December 2009.
This production capacity is based on the interest and tax 2,322 1,223 1,209 original design capacity of the plants plus expansions.
Total assets 17,954 19,079 20,595 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 1,299 1,839 939 a b BP share of petrochemicals production capacity a Includes sales between businesses.
thousand tonnes per year b Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
Acetic Geographic area PTA PX acid Other O&D Total Alternative Energy US 2,385 2,373 583 151 5,492 Alternative Energy comprises BPs low-carbon businesses and future Europe 1,330 624 532 158 1,629 4,273 growth options outside oil and gas.
Alternative Energy is focused on four Rest of World 3,704 1,035 108 3,217 8,064 key businesses, which we believe have the potential to be a material 7,419 2,997 2,150 417 4,846 17,829 source of low-carbon energy and are aligned with BPs core capabilities.
a These are biofuels, wind, solar, and hydrogen power and carbon capture Petrochemicals capacity is the maximum proven sustainable daily rate msdr multiplied by the number of days in the respective period, where msdr is the highest average daily rate ever achieved and storage CCS.
b Includes BP share of equity-accounted entities.
Our market It is now well accepted that a more diverse mix of energy will be required Global fuels a to meet future demand.
The International Energy Association IEA The supply of aviation fuels and LPG is run globally in the global fuels SPU.
estimates that world energy demand could be 40% higher than at Air BP is one of the worlds largest and best known aviation fuels present by 2030, driven largely by China and India.
The IEA also projects suppliers, serving many of the major commercial airlines as well as the that higher fossil-fuel prices, as well as increasing concerns over energy general aviation and military sectors.
During 2009, which was another security and climate change, could boost the share of wind and solar tough year for the aviation industry, we continued to simplify our electricity generation from 1% in 2007 to 6% in 2030, and the biofuels geographical footprint by exiting non-core countries and we now supply b share of transport fuels from 1% in 2007 to 4% in 2030. customers in 64 countries.
This has allowed us to reduce working capital and improve returns on operating capital employed.
Our performance We have annual marketing sales in excess of 25 billion litres.
Air Alternative Energy made good progress in 2009.
Our wind business has BPs strategic aim is to grow its position in the core locations of Europe, added 279MW of capacity including the construction of two wind farms the US, Australasia and the Middle East, while focusing its portfolio in the US Fowler Ridge II in Indiana and Titan I in South Dakota taking towards airports that offer long-term competitive advantage.
the total capacity in commercial operation to 711MW 1,237MW gross The LPG business sells bulk, bottled, automotive and wholesale at the end of 2009.
In our solar business, we completed the restructuring LPG products to a wide range of customers in 12 countries.
During the of our manufacturing facilities and increased unit sales 25% over 2008. past few years, our LPG business has consolidated its position and Our biofuels business is investing in advanced technologies.
We have our introduced new consumer offers in established markets, developed first joint-venture ethanol refinery in Brazil and another joint-venture opportunities in growth markets and pursued new demand such as the facility is under construction in the UK.
In 2009, we have divested non-core operations c Since 2005, we have invested more than $4 billion in Alternative and focused our asset base around sustainable marketing operations.
Energy, in line with our commitment to invest $8 billion by 2015.
Annual sales are in excess of 2 million tonnes per annum.
a Adapted from World Energy Outlook 2009.
OECD IEA 2009, page 73. b World Energy Outlook 2009.
OECD IEA 2009, pages 622-623: Reference Scenario, World.
c The majority of costs have been capitalized, some were expensed under IFRS.
2009 2008 2007 Wind net rated capacity at year-end a megawatts 711 432 172 b Solar module sales megawatts 203 162 115 a Net wind capacity is the sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have entered into commercial operation, including BPs share of equity-accounted entities.
The equivalent capacities on a gross-JV basis which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where BP has partial ownership were 1,237MW in 2009, 785MW in 2008 and 373MW in 2007.
This includes 32MW of capacity in the Netherlands that is managed by our Refining and Marketing segment.
b Solar sales are the total sales of solar modules to third-party customers, expressed in MW.
Previously we reported the theoretical cell production capacity of our in-house solar manufacturing facilities.
Reporting sales volumes operating data brings us into line with the broader solar industry.
42 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Biofuels Hydrogen power and CCS BP has a key role to play in enabling the transport sector to respond to BP has played a leading role in the CCS industry for more than 10 years, the dual challenges of energy security and climate change.
We have and today focuses on both full-scale projects and a continuing embarked on a focused programme of biofuels development based programme of research and technology development.
The Hydrogen around the most efficient transformation of sustainable and low-cost Energy International Limited joint venture, which was formed to develop sugars into a range of fuel molecules.
BP continues to invest throughout hydrogen power projects in 2007, is now wholly owned by BP following the entire biofuels value chain from sustainable feedstocks that minimize an agreement with Rio Tinto to sell its 50% share.
pressure on food supplies through to the development of the advantaged The two companies are continuing to develop the Hydrogen fuel molecule biobutanol.
BP has production facilities operating, or in the Energy California 250MW power project with CCS through the planning and construction phases, in the US, Brazil and the UK.
Hydrogen Energy International LLC joint venture, which secured In 2009, we announced a $45-million investment in a joint $308 million of Department of Energy DoE funding during 2009. venture with Verenium which plans to construct a facility to produce The funding award was made to California as part of the American lignocellulosic bioethanol in Florida, US.
This investment builds on the Recovery Reinvestment Act of 2009 and is part of the third round of $90-million investment made by BP in 2008 to further develop existing the DoEs Clean Coal Power Initiative.
Verenium technical work and develop a demonstration plant at Separately, the 400MW Hydrogen Power Abu Dhabi project with commercial scale.
In August, BP also announced a $10-million multi-year CCS reached an important milestone, with the Abu Dhabi environmental agreement with Martek Biosciences Corporation to establish proof of regulators approval of the environment and social impact assessment.
concept for large-scale microbial biodiesel production through the The project is a joint venture between BP 40% and Masdar 60%.
The blending and distribution of biofuels continues to be carried Shipping out by our Refining and Marketing segment, in line with regulation.
BP is We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along one of the largest blenders and marketers of biofuels in the world.
waterways, using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and spot-chartered vessels.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject Wind to our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
The In wind power, BP has focused its portfolio in the US, where we believe primary purpose of our shipping and chartering activities is the the most attractive opportunities exist and where we have developed transportation of our hydrocarbon products.
In addition, we may use one of the leading wind portfolios.
surplus capacity to transport third-party products.
During 2009, we announced the completion of phase I of the 100MW Flat Ridge Wind Farm in Barber County, Kansas.
BP and Westar International fleet Energy, Inc. each own 50% of phase 1 of the wind farm.
BP sells its The size of our managed international fleet has not changed since 2008. share of the output to Westar.
In addition, commercial operations At the end of 2009, we had 54 international vessels 37 medium-size commenced at the Fowler Ridge Wind Farm in Benton County, Indiana, crude and product carriers, four very large crude carriers, one North Sea the largest wind farm in the US Midwest at 600MW, where BP and shuttle tanker, eight LNG carriers and four LPG carriers.
All these ships Dominion are equal partners in 300MW.
BP and Sempra Generation are are double-hulled.
Of the eight LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf equal partners in 200MW, and 100MW is wholly-owned by BP.
Full of a joint venture in which it is a participant and operates seven LNG commercial operation also began at our wholly-owned 25MW Titan I carriers.
Wind Farm in South Dakota.
As a result, BP has increased its net wind generation capacity to Regional and specialist vessels 711MW during 2009, an increase of 65% over the prior year.
This net In Alaska, we retain a fleet of four double-hulled vessels.
Outside the increase in capacity includes the disposal of 78MW of our wind interests US, we had 14 specialist vessels two double-hulled lubricants oil barges in India as part of our focus on US wind.
Solar Time-charter vessels 2009 was quite challenging in the solar market due to weak demand in BP has 104 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 deadweight tonnes the first half year and a significant decrease in module sales prices of on time-charter, of which 102 are double-hulled.
However, BP Solar was successful in increasing unit sales participate in BPs Time Charter Assurance Programme.
BP Solars organization, with over 1,700 employees worldwide, Spot-charter vessels is headquartered in San Francisco, California, in the US.
BP Solar is BP spot-charters vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are structured to serve the residential, commercial, and utility markets with always vetted for safety assurance prior to use.
sales and marketing offices in major markets around the world.
Our manufacturing facilities are located in Frederick, Maryland, US: and joint Other vessels a venture manufacturing is located in Xian, China and Bangalore, India.
BP uses various craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic vessels in During 2009, BP Solar continued to restructure manufacturing to support of the groups business.
We also use sub-600 deadweight tonne reduce costs and, as part of this programme, module assembly was barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
phased out in Maryland and our cell manufacture and module assembly facilities in Madrid, Spain, were closed.
Wafer and cell manufacturing facilities in Maryland and joint venture manufacturing sites in China and India continue to supply BP Solar.
a Our Indian manufacturing operations are accounted for as a consolidated subsidiary.
43 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review Maritime security issues Research and technology At a strategic level, BP avoids known areas of pirate attack or armed robbery: where this is not possible for trading reasons and we consider it Research and technology R&T has a critical role to play in addressing the safe to do so, we will continue to trade vessels through these areas, worlds energy challenges, from fundamental research through to widesubject to the adoption of heightened security measures.
BPs model is one of selective technology leadership, 2009 has seen continuing pirate activity in the Gulf of Aden, where we have chosen 20 major technology programmes 10 in extending into the Indian Ocean from the east coast of Somalia to Exploration and Production, seven in Refining and Marketing and three beyond the Seychelles and a significant increase in the number of focused on lower-carbon value chains.
The number of vessels actually Inside the business segments, the full breadth of these activities hijacked has remained roughly the same as 2008, as a result of is carried out in service of competitive business performance and new heightened awareness to the threat, and protective measures adopted by business development, through research and development R&D or transiting ships.
The central R&T group provides At present, we follow available military and government agency leadership and assurance for scientific and technological activities across advice and are participating in protective group transits through the Gulf BP with a focus on having the right capability in critical areas, overseeing of Aden Maritime Security Patrol Area transit corridor.
BP supports the the quality of BPs major technology programmes, and illuminating the protective measures recommended in the international shipping industry potential of emerging science.
External assurance is achieved through a guide Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy in the Gulf of Aden.
the Technology Advisory Council, which advises the board and executive management on the state of research and technology within BP.
The Council comprises typically eight to 10 world-leading and eminent Aluminium industrialists and academics.
Our aluminium business is a non-integrated producer and marketer of R&D is carried out using a balance of internal and external rolled aluminium products, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, US.
Involving third parties in the various steps of technology Production facilities are located in Logan County, Kentucky, and are jointly development and application enables a wider range of ideas and owned with Novelis.
The primary activity of our aluminium business is the technologies to be considered and implemented, improving the impact of supply of aluminium coil to the beverage can business, which it research and development activities and the leverage of our spend.
manufactures primarily from recycled aluminium.
Across the group, expenditure on R&D for 2009 was $587 million, compared with $595 million in 2008 and $566 million in 2007.
See Treasury Financial statements Note 11 on page 134.
Despite the economic Treasury manages the financing of the group centrally, ensuring liquidity downturn of 2009, R&D spending remained roughly flat.
In addition we sufficient to meet group requirements and manages key financial risks increased our focus on value realization from the application of including interest rate, foreign exchange, pension and financial institution technology including field trials, and capability development, which are credit risk.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia Pacific region, not included in the headline R&D expenditure.
Treasury provides the interface between BP and the international In our Exploration and Production segment, we selectively focus financial markets and supports the financing of BPs projects around the on 10 flagship technology programmes which have the greatest world.
Treasury trades foreign exchange and interest rate products in the business impact.
We consider that each has the potential to add more financial markets, hedging group exposures and generating incremental than one billion boe to reserves through their development and value through optimizing and managing flows.
Trading activities are deployment in our assets worldwide.
These technologies continue to underpinned by the compliance, control, and risk management contribute to exploration and production success in Alaska, Angola, infrastructure common to all BP trading activities.
Azerbaijan, Egypt, North Africa, the North Sea, Trinidad and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
2009 highlights from four of these flagships Insurance include: The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations Advanced seismic imaging BPs expertise leads the industry, with where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is because cutting-edge simultaneous sweeping techniques being successfully external insurance is not considered an economic means of financing applied in onshore seismic surveys in Libya and Oman.
Offshore, BP losses for the group.
Losses are therefore borne as they arise, rather completed its largest ever 3D surveys in Libyas deepwater, carried than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant out the most northerly 3D seismic programme ever conducted in the transaction costs.
This position is reviewed periodically.
Canadian Beaufort Sea, and deployed a wide azimuth towed a streamer in Angola an acquisition configuration developed by Jointly published and supported by Industry bodies, including OCIMF.
BP to image areas of complex geology below salt.
These imaging techniques significantly reduce time and costs needed to acquire seismic data over vast areas.
Enhanced oil recovery EOR technologies are pushing recovery factors to new limits.
By increasing the overall recovery factor from our fields by 1%, we believe we can add 2 billion boe to our reserves.
TM At the Endicott field in Alaska, BP completed a field trial of its LoSal EOR technology, which uses injection water with a much lower than usual salt content to flush out or displace extra oil from the reservoir.
Following the success of this trial, the technology is now being actively considered for application in several new projects.
BP has now performed 38 Bright Water treatments in Alaska, Argentina and Pakistan, which have delivered an increase of more than 9 million barrels to our recoverable volumes at a development cost of less than $6 per barrel.
44 Business review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review TM Field-of-the-Future FotF exploits digital technologies to improve In our solar business, BP has joined forces with Interuniversity performance and optimize production.
For example, ISIS, a Microelectronics Centre IMEC and other partners to demonstrate TM proprietary system designed by BP engineers, gathers subsurface high-efficiency, low-cost silicon Mono2 solar cells.
This new information from wells in real time using field sensors that measure technology is producing cells ranging up to 18% efficiency, compared parameters such as pressures and temperatures.
ISIS has now with multicrystalline cells that are typically around 15%-15.8% been deployed as a virtual flow meter and has improved production efficiency.
Mono2 cells are fabricated using BP Solars proprietary rates at Thunder Horse and other fields.
BP has deployed FotF to 35 casting technique to produce monocrystalline wafers.
BP Solar has operations using a common platform, leading the industry in this also developed and is in the process of commercializing a full area.
This uses advanced heat Inherently reliable facilities BP conducted a high reliability management and internal microcircuits to optimize energy chemical injection skid field trial at Wytch Farm in the UK, as part of production, safety, and ease of operation and maintenance.
this flagships objectives of improving corrosion inhibition, extending Our carbon capture and storage projects in Abu Dhabi and the life of BPs assets and ensuring safe, reliable and efficient California are making progress, with environmental regulator approval operations.
for the former and Department of Energy funding for the latter.
In our Refining and Marketing segment, technology is delivering Collaboration plays an important role across the breadth of BPs research performance improvements across all businesses.
For example: and development activities, but particularly in those areas that benefit Refining technology advances are enabling better understanding and from fundamental scientific research: processing of feedstocks of varying quality and optimization of our BP has 11 significant, long-term research programmes with major assets in real time, enhancing the flexibility and reliability of our universities and research institutions around the world, exploring refineries and improving margins.
The reconfiguration at Whiting areas from energy bioscience and conversion technology to carbon refinery to process heavier crudes is on track, incorporating mitigation and nanotechnology in solar power.
In 2009, we technologically advanced coking operations.
BPs  an EOR exploratory research programme with three Future programme develops and deploys state-of-the-art European universities to improve our understanding, foster innovation measurement, monitoring and predictive technologies to improve and provide a springboard for new technologies.
refinery safety, integrity, availability and utilization, and to optimize At our Energy Biosciences Institute at Berkeley, we have located feedstock selection and blending.
For example, BP has completed BP researchers at the institute to collaborate with the academic large-scale field trials of wireless, online, sensors for remote researchers.
Several foundational research platforms have been corrosion monitoring, and deployment across our refineries is now established including second-generation biofuel technologies and under way.
microbially-enhanced oil and gas recovery and the first patents and BPs leading technologies in fuels and lubricants mean that it can inventions have started to emerge.
keep ahead of increasingly stringent regulations, balancing greater BP is an industry member of the UKs Energy T echnologies fuel efficiency and performance and developing superior formulations Institute ETI a public private partnership to accelerate low-carbon across its entire product slate.
In 2009, BP completed the launch of technology development.
In 2009, the ETI commissioned over Castrol EDGE Sport, a range of highly advanced synthetic engine oils 50 million $80 million of work covering 10 projects across a wide that outperform conventional, high mileage, part synthetic and range of technologies.
The ETI has also developed a model of the UK benchmark synthetic motor oils.
BPs strong relationship with Ford energy system which projects out to 2050. has contributed to important technological advances in fuel and In 2009, BP launched the Energy Sustainability Challenge, a threelubricants products, including a joint UK Government-backed project year study into how changes in availability of and demand for natural to improve fuel efficiency, which has achieved reductions in friction resources and ecosystem services will affect future energy supply and a significant overall reduction in fuel usage for next generation and demand, the technologies that could enable more efficient use engines.
of natural resources, and the policies that will be necessary to bring Our proprietary processing technologies and operational experience these into effect.
continue to reduce the manufacturing costs and environmental impact of our petrochemicals plants, helping to maintain competitive advantage in purified terephthalic acid PTA and acetic acid.
Learning from successful project implementations in Asia, continuous improvement of our CATIVA technology for manufacture of acetic acid maintains BPs world-class capital and conversion cost position.
In the field of conversion technology, our Fischer-Tropsch demonstration plant programme in Nikiski, Alaska, has been completed, proving the performance of BPs fixed-bed process.
This technology is now ready for commercial deployment and available for third-party licensing.
The process is particularly well suited for the chemical conversion of biomass-derived feedstocks to liquids.
BPs Alternative Energy portfolio covers a wide range of renewable and low-carbon energy technologies.
In 2009, our biofuels business extended its reach and capability through joint ventures with Dupont to develop, produce and market next-generation biofuels from biobutanol, Verenium two 50:50 JVs accelerating the development and commercialization of biofuels from lignocellulosic feedstocks, and Martek Biosciences developing technology to convert sugars into diesel.
