BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders The Texas Office of Attorney General, on behalf of the TCEQ, has filed a Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of BP, has been named as a petition against BP Products asserting certain air emission and reporting co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to violations at the Texas City refinery from 2005 to 2009, including in persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of the relation to the March 2005 explosion and fire.
BP is contesting the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic Richfield.
petition in a pending civil proceeding.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged successor to In September 2009, BP Products filed a petition to clarify specific International Smelting and Refining and another company that required actions and deadlines under the 2005 Settlement Agreement manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
That agreement resolved citations issued in connection with include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the lawsuits the March 2005 Texas City refinery explosion.
OSHA has denied BP purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies including Products petition.
This matter is scheduled for review by the compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and remove lead Occupational Safety and Health OSH Review Commission.
In October paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening programmes, 2009 OSHA issued the Texas City Refinery citations seeking a total of public warning and education of lead hazards, reimbursement of $87.4 million civil penalty for alleged violations of the 2005 Agreement government healthcare costs and special education for lead-poisoned and alleged process safety management violations.
BP Products has citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has contested the citations so this will also be reviewed by the OSH Review been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a final adverse Commission and possibly the federal courts.
Settlement negotiations judgement in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such suits continue between BP Products and OSHA in an attempt to settle the were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the citations for alleged violations of the 2005 settlement agreement.
various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the BP has received a shareholder derivative action against various of outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes that it has valid its current and former officers and directors based on alleged violations defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously and that the of the US Clean Air Act and OSHA regulations at the Texas City refinery incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the subsequent to the March 2005 explosion and fire.
impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, financial BP is also defending civil personal injury claims by Texas City position or liquidity will not be material.
refinery workers or their families from incidents or releases since the For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, see March 2005 explosion and fire.
Environment United States on page 48.
On 29 November 2007, BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA entered into a criminal plea agreement with the DOJ relating to leaks Share prices and listings of crude oil in March and August 2006.
BPXAs guilty plea, to a misdemeanour violation of the US Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Markets and market prices included a term of three years probation.
BPXA is eligible to petition the The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock court for termination of the probation term if it meets certain benchmarks Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the relating to replacement of the transit lines, upgrades to its leak detection Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also system and improvements to its integrity management programme.
traded on the Frankfurt stock exchange in Germany.
On 31 March 2009, the DOJ filed a complaint against BPXA seeking Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of civil penalties and injunctive relief relating to the 2006 oil releases.
the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 The complaint alleges that BPXA violated various federal environmental for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose and pipeline safety statutes and associated regulations in connection primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific with the two releases and its maintenance and operation of North Slope prices may be sent to the exchange electronically by any firm that is a pipelines.
The State of Alaska also filed a complaint on 31 March 2009 member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a against BPXA seeking civil penalties and damages relating to these principal.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
The complaint alleges that the two releases and BPXAs When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed corrosion management practices violated various statutory, contractual and automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous from and common law duties to the State, resulting in penalty liability, 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. UK time but, in the event of a 20% movement in damages the share price either way, the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the for lost royalties and taxes, and liability for punitive damages.
trading of that companys shares in the order book to allow the market to Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place in Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the between an investor and a market-maker, via a member firm, outside the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of electronic order book.
those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service In the US, the companys securities are traded in the form of Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary the Depositary other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal office is 4 New York Plaza, spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
Each ADS represents six ordinary interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips shares.
ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs are in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be issued owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with in either certificated or book entry form.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file and lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares for the a claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and periods shown.
These are derived from the Daily Official List of the LSE damages that it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that and the highest and lowest sales prices of ADSs as reported on the New affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
York Stock Exchange NYSE composite tape.
