Additional information for shareholders BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the company per ADS for each of the past five years.
A dividend reinvestment plan is in place whereby holders of BP ordinary Private complaints, including class actions, have also been filed against shares can elect to reinvest the net cash dividend in shares purchased BP Products alleging propane price manipulation.
The complaints contain on the London Stock Exchange.
This plan is not available to any person allegations similar to those in the CFTC action as well as of violations of resident in the US or Canada or in any jurisdiction outside the UK federal and state antitrust and unfair competition laws and state where such an offer requires compliance by the company with any consumer protection statutes and unjust enrichment.
The complaints governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
seek actual and punitive damages and injunctive relief.
Settlement in both A dividend reinvestment plan is, however, available for holders of ADSs groups of the class actions the direct and indirect purchasers have through JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Subject to shareholder approval at received final court approval.
Two independent lawsuits from class the Annual General Meeting, the company is seeking to replace these members who opted out of the direct purchaser settlement are also plans with an optional Scrip Dividend Programme.
In addition, state actions alleging manipulation of propane and requirements of the programme mean that there will be certain other energy commodity prices and seeking a variety of remedies have changes to our current dividend timetable.
been filed against BP Products and other BP subsidiaries.
Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred in the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 18-20 isomerization unit of BP Products Texas City refinery as the unit was and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in coming out of planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the incident Financial performance on page 53 and in Liquidity and capital resources and many others were injured.
BP Products has resolved all civil injury on page 61. claims arising from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB issued its final report on the incident.
The report contained Legal proceedings recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of the company.
In May 2007, BP responded to the CSBs recommendations.
BP America Inc. BP America continues to be subject to oversight by an BP and the CSB will continue to discuss BPs responses with the independent monitor, who has authority to investigate and report alleged objective of the CSB agreeing to close-out its recommendations.
violations of the US Commodity Exchange Act or US Commodity Futures On 25 October 2007, the DOJ announced that it had entered into Trading Commission CFTC regulations and to recommend corrective a criminal plea agreement with BP Products related to the March 2005 action.
The appointment of the independent monitor was a condition of explosion and fire.
On 4 February 2008, BP Products pleaded guilty, the deferred prosecution agreement DPA entered into with the US pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of the risk Department of Justice DOJ on 25 October 2007 relating to allegations management planning regulations promulgated under the US federal that BP America manipulated the price of February 2004 TET physical Clean Air Act and on 12 March 2009, the court accepted the plea propane and attempted to manipulate the price of TET propane in April agreement.
In connection with the plea agreement, BP Products paid 2003 and the companion consent order with the CFTC, entered the same a $50 million criminal fine and was sentenced to three years probation.
day, resolving all criminal and civil enforcement matters pending at that Compliance with a 2005 US Occupational Safety and Health time concerning propane trading by BP Products North America Inc. BP Administration OSHA settlement agreement and an agreed order Products.
The DPA requires BP Americas and certain of its affiliates entered into by BP Products with the Texas Commission on continued co-operation with the US government investigations of the Environmental Quality TCEQ are conditions of probation.
The DOJ trades in question, as well as other trading matters that may arise.
The continues to investigate certain other matters arising from the March DPA has a term of three years but can be extended by two additional 2005 explosion and fire.
one-year periods, and contemplates dismissal of all charges at the end of the term following the DOJs determination that BP America has complied with the terms of the DPA.
Investigations into BPs trading activities continue to be conducted from time to time.
