Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours At the AGM held on 17 April 2008, shareholders voted to adopt new trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK company prices for ADSs on the NYSE are closely related due to arbitrage among law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
Further amendments to the various markets, although differences may exist from time to time the Articles of Association are being proposed at our AGM in 2010, to due to various factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
reflect the full implementation of the Companies Act 2006, among other On 18 February 2010, 886,409,646 ADSs equivalent to matters.
5,318,457,873 ordinary shares or some 28.34% of the total issued Under the Companies Act 2006 the Memorandum serves a share capital, excluding treasury shares and shares bought back for more limited role as historical evidence of the formation of the company.
cancellation were outstanding and were held by approximately 132,684 Since October 2009 the provisions of the companys Memorandum are ADS holders.
Of these, about 131,204 had registered addresses in the deemed to form part of BPs Articles of Association.
One of the registered holders of ADSs represents some 698,373 underlying holders.
Objects and purposes On 18 February 2010, there were approximately 314,028 holders BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in England of record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,540 had and Wales with registered number 102498.
Clause 4 of BPs registered addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,343,899 Memorandum of Association provides that its objects include the ordinary shares.
acquisition of petroleum-bearing lands: the carrying on of refining and Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by dealing businesses in the petroleum, manufacturing, metallurgical or brokers and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US chemicals businesses: the purchase and operation of ships and all other may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their vehicles and other conveyances: and the carrying on of any other country of residence.
businesses calculated to benefit BP.
The memorandum grants BP a range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
Memorandum and Articles of Association The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association is described under the heading Documents on display on page 105.
101 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders Directors Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
if any is declared, the Articles of Association provide that the directors The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a may set aside: director voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make a material interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, the following matters: pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for company.
allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Any proposal in which he is interested concerning the underwriting of Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the company securities or debentures.
manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
Any proposal concerning any other company in which he is Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder company, provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have or otherwise provided that he and persons connected with him are been paid off.
All shares are fully paid.
not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the shares of such company.
Voting rights Proposals concerning the modification of certain retirement benefits The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on schemes under which he may benefit and that have been approved resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other by either the UK Board of Inland Revenue or by the shareholders.
than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in insurance policy under which he may benefit.
person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two The UK Companies Act requires a director of a company who is in any votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company to If voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors of the meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person company.
The definition of interest includes the interests of spouses, will have one vote, regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll children, companies and trusts.
The UK Companies Act also requires that is requested.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the including a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote companys interests.
The Act allows directors of public companies to on their behalf at any shareholders meeting.
authorize such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and Association so permit.
BPs Articles of Association permit the vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may exercise all the powers approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in of the company to borrow money, except that the amount remaining respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall not, without proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up on the share entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and revenue who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of the board accordance with their instructions.
may only be effected by amending the Articles of Association.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the in the aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are three types: executive directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
An annual general meeting must be This committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is held once in every year and all other general meetings will be called no requirement of share ownership for a directors qualification.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a capital calls quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by of not less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in there is a quorum.
Any AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors for an extraordinary general meeting is 14 days.
With the implementation may also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive into UK law, reliance on this No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, notice period of 14 days requires annual shareholder approval, failing as determined under IFRS and the UK Companies Act.
Dividends on which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP preference shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and reverts to BP.
The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in US dollars.
