BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Business review In 2009, we spent $55 million promoting education, with investment The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under in three broad areas: tertiary and post secondary level support for which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
engineering: energy industry-related areas such as geo-science and These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered business leadership skills: and supporting the improvement of science into with a government entity or state company and are sometimes and technology teaching within basic education.
entered into with private property owners.
These arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs.
Arrangements with private Relationships with suppliers property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and contractors and exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the Essential contracts risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides BP has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is in support of its business activities.
This report does not contain entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
information about any of these third parties as none of our arrangements A licence holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, with them are considered to be essential to the business of BP.
which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in Suppliers and contractors exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully than production.
on merit, avoiding conflicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and PSAs entered into with a government entity or state company entertainment.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of and we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with BPs exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in our code of production remaining after royalties, if any.
We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration performance review meetings to identify mutually advantageous and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are ways to improve performance.
limited to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of Creditor payment policy and practice time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 2006 require production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which companies to make a statement of their policy and practice in respect of these licences may be renewed vary by area.
the payment of trade creditors.
In view of the international nature of the Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities groups operations there is no specific group-wide policy in respect of in joint ventures with other international oil companies, state companies payments to suppliers.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, or private companies.
governed by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, from production activities whether under a licence or PSAs.
In addition, individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to conditions for their business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are a range of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special aware of the terms of payment.
petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits and activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other activities, particularly in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Regulation of the groups business Norway, the UK, the US, Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
For a discussion of environmental and certain health and safety BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, regulations and environmental proceedings, see Environment on pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals pages 47-49.
See also Legal proceedings on pages 99-100. production, trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are conducted in many different countries and are therefore subject to a broad range of EU, US, international, regional and local legislation Organizational structure and regulations, including legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of our The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2009 and the activities and include matters such as licence acquisition, production group percentage of ordinary share capital to the nearest whole number rates, royalties, environmental, health and safety protection, fuel are set out in Financial statements Note 43 on pages 177-178.
See specifications and transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, Financial statements Notes 22 and 23 on pages 142 and 143 taxes and foreign exchange.
respectively for information on significant jointly controlled entities and associates of the group.
