BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Miscellaneous terms In this document, unless the context Joint control MW otherwise requires, the following terms Joint control is the contractually agreed Megawatt.
shall have the meaning set out below.
sharing of control over an economic NGLs activity, and exists only when the ADR Natural gas liquids.
strategic financial and operating American depositary receipt.
decisions relating to the activity require OPEC ADS the unanimous consent of the parties Organization of Petroleum Exporting American depositary share.
AGM Joint venture Ordinary shares Annual general meeting.
A contractual arrangement whereby Ordinary fully paid shares in BP p. l. c. of two or more parties undertake an 25c each.
Amoco The former Amoco Corporation economic activity that is subject to Pence or p joint control.
Atlantic Richfield Jointly controlled asset Pound, sterling or A joint venture where the venturers Atlantic Richfield Company The pound sterling.
jointly control, and often have a direct and its subsidiaries.
ownership interest in the assets of the Preference shares Associate venture.
The assets are used to obtain Cumulative First Preference Shares and An entity, including an unincorporated benefits for the venturers.
Each Cumulative Second Preference Shares entity such as a partnership, over which venturer may take a share of the output in BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
the group has significant influence and from the assets and each bears an PSA that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint agreed share of the expenses incurred.
Significant influence is the Jointly controlled entity is an arrangement through which an oil power to participate in the financial and A joint venture that involves the company bears the risks and costs of operating policy decisions of an entity but is not control or joint control over establishment of a corporation, exploration, development and partnership or other entity in which production.
In return, if exploration is those policies.
each venturer has an interest.
A successful, the oil company receives Barrel contractual arrangement between the entitlement to variable physical 42 US gallons.
venturers establishes joint control over volumes of hydrocarbons, representing the economic activity of the entity.
recovery of the costs incurred and a b d stipulated share of the production barrels per day.
Liquids remaining after such cost recovery.
Crude oil, condensate and natural boe gas liquids.
SEC barrels of oil equivalent.
The United States Securities and LNG BP, BP group or the group Exchange Commission.
BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiary London Stock Exchange or LSE Burmah Castrol An entity that is controlled by the BP London Stock Exchange plc.
Burmah Castrol PLC and its group.
Control is the power to govern subsidiaries.
LPG the financial and operating policies of Liquefied petroleum gas.
an entity so as to obtain the benefits Cent or c from its activities.
One-hundredth of the US dollar.
mb d thousand barrels per day.
Tonne The company BP p. l. c. 2,204.6 pounds.
mboe d thousand barrels of oil equivalent UK Dollar or $ The US dollar.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
US United States of America.
million barrels of oil equivalent.
mmcf Hydrocarbons Crude oil and natural gas.
IFRS mmcf d International Financial Reporting million cubic feet per day.
MTBE Methyl tertiary butyl ether.
