Additional information for shareholders BP Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Additional information for shareholders Liquidation rights: redemption provisions Exchange controls In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and companys operations.
unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of nonaverage market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided shares in the company.
pro rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such Taxation preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue holder who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of holders subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, Variation of rights hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
In addition, if a The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the United States federal income consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of partner and the tax treatment of the partnership, and may not be the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, described fully below.
all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to that is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the a meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is 10% or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv the rights attached to the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts shares of that class.
administration and one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
Shareholders meetings and notices This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws In certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the basis.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the heading Voting Rights.
Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with be held within the six-month period from the first day of BPs accounting its terms.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention determined by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK is adjourned for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as meeting may be given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those Powers exist for action to be taken either before or at the meeting by ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary authorized officers to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those shares generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK attending.
taxation other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents owning and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular or foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the or ADSs, other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the benefits of the Treaty.
Taxation of dividends Disclosure of interests in shares UK taxation The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required not be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
may lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the on their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect UK is subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends of those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of will generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting the cash dividend.
shares, including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
