The Boards Policies INTRODUCTION USE OF DERIVATIVES The role of the Board of Directors of your Company The primary motive for using derivatives is to create includes determining the policies which govern how a wider opportunity set to deliver returns from stock it is managed, which are: picking such that overall portfolio performance will primarily be explained by stock selection and INVESTMENT GOAL: CAPITAL GROWTH market returns.
The Board of Directors recognises that investing in equities is a long term process and that there will The policies, application, exposure limits and other risk be good and bad years in the Companys returns to management requirements which the Board applies to shareholders.
However, our primary objective is to the use of derivatives is set out in three documents: make money for you, the shareholders, over the long term.
In our assessment of the progress towards i The Use of Derivatives Policy sets out the principles, that end, we consider a five year time span to be the responsibilities, requirements and restrictions most appropriate.
pertaining to usage: DIVIDEND POLICY: SHORT TERM VARIABLE, ii The Derivative Instrument Charter sets out the LONG TERM GROWTH applications for usage, the risks which arise from The portfolio is managed actively in the pursuit of capital usage and the manner in which those risks are gains.
In any one year therefore the dividend income mitigated.
This supporting document also sets out received from investments will vary according to which the derivative exposure limits which are reviewed stocks are owned during the period and so therefore and altered from time to time by the Board: will the net income earned and the dividend paid.
iii The Derivative Risk Measurement and Management INVESTMENT POLICY: SPECIAL SITUATIONS document sets out how FIL Investments International The objective of the Company is predominantly pursued measures and manages other risks arising from the by investing in the stocks and shares of companies with Companys positions in financial derivative instruments.
certain characteristics which, in the Portfolio Managers judgement, offer unusual opportunities to make capital CURRENCIES: NO HEDGING gains.
These characteristics are usually found in one It is not the policy of the Board to hedge the of the following investment themes: underlying currencies of the holdings in the shares of overseas companies in the portfolio but rather to take Turnaround or recovery situations: the currency risk into consideration when making Unrecognised growth opportunities: the investment.
Hidden jewels an under-appreciated product or division: GEARING POLICY: BORROWINGS OF 15-20% Franchises which may be subject to corporate activity.
OF SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS IN NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES The Portfolio Manager is looking for valuation anomalies The Board takes the view that long term capital gains and for companies that are under owned and disliked by can be enhanced by the judicious use of long term other investors, and shares which may have a high level borrowings commonly referred to as gearing.
In times of short interest.
when it does not regard stockmarket values generally as being either very over or undervalued, its policy is Although the portfolio consists predominantly of to maintain borrowings of between 15 and 20% of holdings in UK companies, up to 20% can be, and shareholders funds.
often is, invested in the shares of overseas companies.
LIQUIDITY POLICY: FULLY INVESTED IN The Company invests mainly in shares but may also invest NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES in equity-related instruments such as convertible bonds, In normal times it is the Boards policy to be fully warrants or derivative contracts and in debt instruments.
invested by which it means at least 95% of the The Company may also invest up to 5% of its assets in Companys assets are invested in stocks and shares.
unquoted securities, but it is unlikely that the Portfolio However, it is aware of its duty to be concerned about Manager will make such investments except where it is preservation of our shareholders capital as well as that expected that the securities will shortly be listed.
of making capital gains: if the stocks and shares generally are deemed to be very overvalued or if the Portfolio The Board has not set a policy limiting the amount Manager finds it difficult to identify many attractively that can be invested in any one security or sector other priced opportunities for investment: than that limited by Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. such that the chances of losing money in the medium term three to five years are considerable: The current investment approach is detailed in theliquidity uninvested cash would rise to a level which Managers Review on pages 8 and 9. at least matches the amount of borrowings or futures.
A breakdown of the current distribution of the It is not our policy to own shares for the sake of it.
Companys portfolio is detailed on pages 12 and 13.
Page 20 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 The Boards Policies INVESTMENT IN OTHER INVESTMENT TRUSTS: LIMIT OF 15% The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the Companys total assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
As at 31 August 2009 there were six such holdings totalling 6.13% of the Companys total assets.
CORPORATE ACTIVISM The Board believes that the Company should, where necessary, take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any controversial issues which are then referred to the Board, it delegates the responsibility for corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
These activities are reviewed annually.
PREMIUM DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT: ENHANCING SHAREHOLDER VALUE The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year to issue new shares at a premium or buy in shares at a discount to the net asset value.
It uses these authorities to enhance the net asset value and to protect or improve the premium discount rating of the shares.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 21
