Managers Review Sanjeev Shah FIL Investments International joined Fidelity in 1996 as a research analyst.
He became The Company is managed by FIL Investments a portfolio manager in 2002: between October 2002 and International which is authorised and regulated by August 2005 he managed the Fidelity UK Aggressive the Financial Services Authority.
FIL Investments Fund and between September 2005 and May 2007 he International is part of the FIL Limited group which, managed Fidelity Funds European Aggressive Fund.
Mr as at 30 June 2009, had total assets under Shah took over responsibility for the Companys portfolio management exceeding 109 billion.
UK MARKET REVIEW PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REVIEW GDP growth deteriorated over the year, culminating During the 12 months to 31 August 2009, the in negative growth of 5.5% annualised in the 2nd Companys portfolio returned 9.0% total return basis, quarter of 2009. outperforming the FTSE All-Share Index at -8.2%.
Inflation subsided in conjunction with the economic slowdown, with August CPI reaching 1.6%.
Following a disappointing year to 31 August 2008 when The Bank of England cut the base rate several times the Company NAV fell by 9.8% total return basis, it to reach 0.5% in March 2009, the lowest ever rate.
is very pleasing to report that most of that has been The UK market fell very sharply in the first half of the recouped, despite a volatile year during which the financial year before recovering strongly from early benchmark fell further.
Strong stock selection in the travel and leisure sector was The UK stock market declined 8.2% over the year as the biggest contributor to performance.
Online gaming the full impact of the financial crisis spread to all parts companies such as Sportingbet and PartyGaming of the world economy.
However it was very much a year prospered as a result of solid revenue growth and an of two halves.
The first half of our accounting year to improving regulatory environment.
Compass Group, 31 August 2009 was characterised by poor news flow the outsourced catering company, rallied as new and high uncertainty, which led to enormous volatility.
management delivered on the business plan.
The market fell by 31.3% during this period, more than any similar period in several decades.
During the second Despite the volatile environment, holdings in financials half however, the first tentative signs of improvement also added to performance.
While exposure to HBOS appeared, as the actions of governments and Central detracted prior to their takeover by Lloyds, holdings in Banks started to gain traction.
The market rose 34.0% Credit Suisse, Standard Chartered and SEB Sweden in the latter half.
rose strongly as policy action averted the crisis deepening even further.
A wide selection of positions Over the year, the best performing sectors were in other financial services also supported returns, technology stocks and general retailers, which such as London & Stamford Property, London Stock rebounded from very low valuations.
Basic materials, Exchange and Novae, the insurance company.
where the Company had little exposure, was the worst performing sector overall, as commodity prices Given the widespread concerns over the consumer, tumbled from inflated levels.
Financial services were it was interesting to note that some of the best also among the worst performing stocks, however performers in the market were in retailing.
Kingfisher, there was a very wide dispersion, as the winners such the DIY specialist, was up 64% as it recovered from as London Stock Exchange and Standard Chartered very low valuations.
Inchcape, the international auto performed strongly, while others collapsed.
Careful distributor, also recovered strongly.
During the period, sterling weakened against the dollar from $1.83 to $1.38 in March before rallying to end the year at $1.63.
Page 8 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Managers Review Media stocks have been a mainstay in the Company market returns.
I continued to use derivatives to for some time and Pearson, a leader in educational meet specific objectives with respect to risk exposure programs and testing, and British Sky Broadcasting both management, return enhancement and shorting contributed to the rise in NAV.
Technology stocks were companies which I assess to be overvalued.
also a strong contributor to performance, with smaller companies such as Computacenter and Intec Telecom Derivative exposures continued to be restricted to doubling during the year.
CSR, a producer of mobile modest levels, for example at no time during the telephone components also rose sharply.
year did short or hedge exposures exceed 5% of the Companys net assets and total gross long exposures Among stocks that performed poorly were Eurotunnel, never exceeded 122%.
where a reduction in traffic and financing concerns impacted, and HBOS, where the reliance on wholesale The use of derivatives contributed a positive return.
funding led to severe liquidity problems for the bank and its eventual rescue takeover by Lloyds.
OUTLOOK While the economic news remains mixed, there are While I increased exposure to large companies ahead signs of improvement in the housing market and the of the crisis, I have been steadily rotating into mid sized financial system has recovered from the paralysis of companies as the year progressed, and was overweight 2008.
The rally since March has been led by the cyclical this segment at the year end.
While there are always parts of the market and not necessarily the highest opportunities in large companies, the mid sized quality companies.
Recently, I have recently started to companies tend to be a more fertile hunting ground reduce exposure to interest rate sensitive stocks such for special situations.
as retailers and housebuilders and increase exposure to areas of defensive growth such as GlaxoSmithKline and THE USE OF DERIVATIVES British Sky Broadcasting.
I continue to believe that, The Company is able to selectively use derivatives to although the economic environment is stabilising, the generate returns and these activities, which form only medium term growth outlook is modest.
a small part of the portfolio, have once again delivered a positive result.
Sanjeev Shah The primary motive for using derivatives is to create FIL Investments International a wider opportunity set to deliver returns from stock 3 November 2009 picking.
Thus overall portfolio performance continued to be primarily explained by stock selection and Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 9
