Corporate Information Manager, Secretary and Registered Office FIL Investments International Beech Gate Alex Hammond- 1,2 Millfield Lane Chambers Lower Kingswood Chairman of the Board, the Tadworth Management Engagement Surrey KT20 6RP Committee and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Financial Advisers and Stockbrokers date of appointment: Cenkos Securities plc 18 October 1994.
Former 6,7, 8 Tokenhouse Yard chairman of Ivory & Sime London EC2R 7AS plc, he is chairman of Hansa Trust PLC and Aurora Investment Trust plc, and a director of International Independent Auditor Biotechnology Trust Plc, Montanaro European Smaller Grant Thornton UK LLP Companies Investment Trust plc and a number of other Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor investment companies.
He worked at Ivory & Sime for 30 Finsbury Square 27 years, being responsible for the management of a London EC2P 2YU number of its investment trusts, before becoming its chairman in 1985.
He retired from Ivory & Sime at Bankers and Custodian the end of 1991 and has become a professional nonJPMorgan Chase Bank London Branch executive director, specialising in investment trusts 125 London Wall and investment companies and is a former chairman London EC2Y 5AJ of the Association of Investment Companies AIC and Governor of the National Association of Securities Registrars Dealers NASD.
Capita Registrars Northern House Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Huddersfield 1,2 Lynn Ruddick West Yorkshire HD8 OGA Chairman of the Audit Committee date of Lawyers appointment: 22 July 2005 Slaughter and May is a Fellow of the Chartered One Bunhill Row Association of Certified London EC1Y 8YY Accountants and a member of the Securities Institute.
She is a non-executive director of British Assets Trust plc, a non-executive director of Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust plc, a member of the Investment Committee of the Pearson Group Pension Plan and a trustee of the Scottish & Newcastle Pension Plan.
She is also a member of the Investment Committee of Western Provident Association and chairman of their Pension Fund Trustee Board.
She worked for many years as an investment manager in both Edinburgh and London and is a former chairman of the Investment Committee of the National Association of Pension Funds.
Before retiring from Merrill Lynch Investment Managers in 2004 she headed their investment trust business unit.
Page 18 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Board of Directors 1,2 Sir Richard Brooke, Bt Douglas Kinloch 1,2 date of appointment: Anderson 18 October 1994 is a former date of appointment: partner of Rowe & Pitman, 18 October 1994 is chairman a member of the International of Kinloch Anderson Limited Capital Markets Advisory and a director of Martin Currie Committee to the board of Portfolio Investment Trust PLC directors of the New York Stock and F&C Private Equity Trust Exchange, a vice-chairman of PLC.
He has been president of the Board of Governors of the National Association the Edinburgh Chamber of Commerce and a member of Securities Dealers, a member of the board of of the Scottish Committee of the Institute of Directors.
directors of SG Warburg Group and J O Hambro He was previously a board member of the Scottish & Company Limited and of a number of investment Tourist Board, Master of the Edinburgh Merchant trust companies.
He is currently chairman of certain Company and he was national president of the Royal investment entities associated with J O Hambro Warrant Holders Association.
His career has included Investment Management Ltd and a director of wide experience in manufacturing, retailing and Avocet Mining plc and other private companies.
exporting, particularly to Europe, North America His career has included all aspects of securities and the Far East.
work including stockbroking, investment banking, investment management and the management and administration of businesses in the UK and worldwide.
Sir Richard Brooke will retire following the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
2 1, 2 Nicky McCabe Ben Thomson date of appointment: 9 date of appointment: 1 January December 2004 is an Executive 2008 is chairman of the Director of Moonray Investors, Edinburgh investment banking a division of FIL Investments firm, Noble Group Limited, International, responsible for the through which he has a strong non-financial services businesses background in investment within Fidelity.
Prior to that, Nicky management and corporate was Chief Operating Officer finance.
The principal subsidiary for the investment management team, having joined of Noble Group is Noble and Company, which is both Fidelity in 1999 as head of investment administration.
a sponsor and a broker on the London Stock Exchange.
Nicky has wide experience in investments, having been Before that, he worked at Kleinwort Benson Limited, responsible for all aspects of operational, systems and London.
He was previously a non-executive director project support for the portfolio managers, analysts and of Wellington Underwriting plc, a quoted insurance traders.
Prior to joining Fidelity, Nicky spent 6 years at company.
He is also chairman of Reform Scotland HSBC Asset Management where she ran Performance Limited, of Barrington Stoke Limited and of the National Measurement, Institutional Marketing Support and Galleries of Scotland and a director of Martin Currie Operations.
Nicky also spent 2 years at McKinsey & Co.
Portfolio Investment Trust PLC and the Edinburgh as a strategy consultant.
All of the Directors are non-executive and, with the exception of Ms McCabe, independent.
1 Member of the Audit Committee and Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 19
