Directors Report Governance, operational, financial, compliance, BUSINESS REVIEW continued administration etc While it is believed that the likelihood of poor External risks governance, compliance and operational administration Market risk by other third party service providers is low, the financial The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities consequences could be serious, including the associated and the principal risks are therefore market related reputational damage to the Company.
Your Board is such as market recessions, interest rate movements, responsible for the Companys system of internal control deflation inflation, terrorism and protectionism.
Risks to and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Details of this process which the Company is exposed and which form part of are provided in the Corporate Governance Statement the market risks category are included in Note 20 to the within this Annual Report.
financial statements on pages 51 to 56 together with summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These Financial and financial instrument risks comprise: market price risk: foreign currency risk: interest The financial instrument risks faced by the Company are rate risk: liquidity risk: counterparty risk and credit risk.
The shown in Note 20 to the financial statements on pages Company has a fixed term, fixed rate loan facility in place 51 to 56. which is due for repayment at the beginning of next year.
The extent to which any loan facilities will be retained or Other risks monitored on a regular basis include loan renewed will be kept under the most careful scrutiny.
covenants, which are subject to daily monitoring, together At the present time, cash is being held against the loan to with the Companys cash position, and the continuation reduce the level of net gearing.
In addition a day to day vote at a time of poor performance.
overdraft facility can be used if required.
The impact of limited finance from counterparties including suppliers has Environmental, employee, social and community matters not impacted the Company to date, however there are The Company is an investment trust which is managed alternative suppliers available in the market place should by FIL Investments International.
The Company has no the need arise.
The Company relies on a number of main employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, counterparties, namely the Manager, Registrar, Custodian the Companys day to day activities being carried out and Auditor.
The Manager is the member of a privately by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to owned group of companies on which a regular report is be made in respect of employees.
The Board fully provided to the Board.
The Manager, Registrar and endorses Fidelitys strong procedures which are involved Custodian are subject to regular audits by Fidelitys in the making of its investments.
internal controls team and the counterparties own internal controls reports are received by the Board and The Companys financial reports are printed by a any concerns investigated.
company which has won awards for its environmental awareness and further details of this may be found on Share price risk the back cover of this report.
Financial reports and other Although it is usually the case that the longer a share is publicly available documentation are also available on owned the less the risk of losing money, share prices are the Companys website www.
Details volatile and for the short term shareholder, likely to want about Fidelitys own community involvement may be to sell in the near future, volatility is a risk.
The Board found on its website www.
co. uk does not regard volatility as a significant risk for the long term shareholder.
DIRECTORS REPORT GENERAL Discount risk Details of the Directors who served in the year to The Board cannot control the discount at which the 31 August 2009 are set out on pages 18 and 19.
Companys share price trades to net asset value.
However, it can influence this through its share buyback policy and All the Directors served throughout the year to 31 through creating demand for shares through good August 2009.
All Directors are subject to re-election performance and an active investor relations programme.
Internal risks Information on the process of appointment, re-election Investment management and replacement of Directors is included in the Corporate The Board relies on the Managers skills and judgement Governance Statement.
All appointments to the Board to make investment decisions based on research and and replacements of Directors take place in accordance analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board with the Companies Act and the Companys Articles of reviews the performance of the asset value of the Association.
Any amendments to the Companys Articles portfolio against the Companys benchmark and of Association must be made by special resolution.
competitors and the outlook for the market with the Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on Sir Richard Brooke will not be seeking re-election to the long term investment performance and the Board Board and will retire at the end of the Annual General accepts that by targeting long term results the Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 December Company risks volatility in the shorter term.
Page 24 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Away Committee Committee Committee Meetings Day Meetings Meetings Meetings Alex Hammond-Chambers 5 5 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 Sir Richard Brooke Bt 5 5 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 Douglas Kinloch Anderson 4 5 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 Nicky McCabe 5 5 1 1 1 1 n a n a Lynn Ruddick 5 5 0 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 Ben Thomson 5 5 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals 2009.
The selection process for a new member of the SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS Board is currently underway.
During the year, FIL Limited sold 125,460 of its own shares.
Since the year end, the remaining 75,790 shares Ms Nicky McCabe is an Executive Director of Moonray have been sold.
At the date of this report notification Investors, a division of FIL Investments International, a had been received that the shareholders listed in the member of the FIL Limited Group of Companies.
Ms table below held more than 3% of the voting rights McCabe has waived her entitlement to Directors fees.
and or issued share capital of the Company.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company and no contracts existed during or at the end of the Number of financial period in which any Director was materially Shareholders ordinary shares % interested and which were significant in relation to the 1 FIL Limited 21,326,269 37.5 Companys business, except as disclosed in relation to 2 Ms McCabes interests in the Management Agreement.
Legal & General Group plc 2,511,507 4.4 There have been no other related party transactions 2 Alliance Trust 2,190,480 3.9 requiring disclosure under Financial Reporting 1 Standard FRS 8.
26% of the issued share capital was held in aggregate by investors in the Fidelity ISA and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan 11.5% of the issued share capital was held direct 2 Held at Held at Direct and indirect holdings for clients and on own account 31 August 2009 31 August 2008 1 2 An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 August Alex Hammond-Chambers 16,000 16,000 2009 is detailed in the table below.
2 Sir Richard Brooke 12,000 12,000 3 Analysis of ordinary shareholders % of issued Douglas Kinloch Anderson 17,898 17,637 as at 31 August 2009 share capital 2 Nicky McCabe 1,000 1,000 Private shareholders 82.45 3 Lynn Ruddick 7,541 7,251 Institutions 7.64 2 Ben Thomson Insurance 6.60 4 FIL Limited 75,790 201,250 Pensions 2.86 1 of which 11,000 shares 2008: 11,000 are non-beneficially owned 2 no change during the year Other 0.45 3 dividend reinvestment 4 sale of 125,460 shares 100.00 1 Includes Share Plan and ISA investors The interests of the Directors and FIL Limited in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 August 2009 and 31 August 2008 are shown above.
SHARE CAPITAL The Companys share capital comprises ordinary DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY shares of 25 pence each.
As at 31 August 2009 the INSURANCE total number of shares in issue was 56,938,896 2008: In addition to benefits enjoyed under the Managers 56,794,503.
Each share carries one vote.
Deadlines for global Directors and Officers liability insurance the exercise of voting rights are detailed in the Notes arrangements, the Company maintains insurance cover to the Notice of Meeting on pages 59 to 61. for its Directors under its own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 25 Directors Report any investment in any fund which is managed by the SHARE ISSUES Manager or an associate of the Manager is excluded.
On 23 December 2008, the Company allotted 178,393 ordinary shares in the Company for Fidelity ISA purposes The Management Agreement will continue unless and to Cenkos Securities PLC, on behalf of ISA clients, at a until terminated by either party giving to the other not price of 422.5 pence per share.
No shares have been less than six months notice in writing.
The Management issued since the year end.
Agreement may, however, be terminated without compensation if the Company is liquidated in 2010, The authority to issue shares and disapply pre-emption or in any subsequent year thereafter, pursuant to the rights, granted by shareholders at the Annual General procedures laid down in the Articles of Association of Meeting held on 11 December 2008, expires at the the Company.
The Management Agreement may also conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and be terminated forthwith as a result of a material breach therefore resolutions to renew the authority will be put of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the Manager to shareholders for approval at the Annual General or the Company.
In addition, the Company may Meeting to be held on 16 December 2009. terminate the Agreement by sixty days notice if the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited.
SHARE REPURCHASES At the Annual General Meeting held on 11 December The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed 2008 the Companys shareholders passed a special the performance of the Manager over one and five years resolution which granted the Directors authority to taking into consideration those items in the Corporate purchase up to 8,513,495 ordinary shares in the market Governance Statement on pages 32 and 33 of this for cancellation.
34,000 shares were repurchased for Annual Report.
The Committee concluded that it was cancellation during the year 2008: 2,910,157.
Since in the interests of shareholders that the Management the year end, no shares have been repurchased Agreement should continue.
The Manager also provides certain services, including POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS marketing and administration, in connection with the The Company has not made any political or charitable Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA donations during the year 2008: nil.
under an agreement dated 17 April 1996.
The amount payable for these services for the year to 31 August 2009 PAYMENT OF CREDITORS is 78,222 2008: 94,522.
If the expenses incurred by The Companys principal supplier is the Manager which the Manager for the provision of these services is less is paid in the month following the end of each calendar than this amount, the balance is carried forward to cover quarter, in accordance with the terms of the the cost of the provision of these services in future years.
An amount of 665,260 2008: 589,951 was due to the The Companys policy for the years to 31 August 2009 Manager under the above agreements at 31 August 2009 and 31 August 2010, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of and is included in other creditors in Note 13 on page 49. payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction to ensure that the supplier is aware of these Fidelity has adopted a broker segmentation policy, which terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The has reduced the number of brokers used and allows it to Company did not have any trade creditors in the year concentrate on those brokers who, in its opinion, offer under review and to date 2008: nil.
Other suppliers are the best service in terms of overall execution.
These paid in accordance with the individual payment terms brokers are Fidelitys core brokers.
At the same time, agreed with each supplier.
the Manager evaluates the research provided by other brokers and uses some of them for their research.
MANAGEMENT COMPANY These brokers are called Secondary State Research The Manager, FIL Investments International, a subsidiary firms SSRs.
of FIL Limited, provides management, accounting, administrative and secretarial services to the Company As a consequence of the policy, the core brokers earn under an agreement the Management Agreement a larger percentage of the commission paid.
These core entered into on 6 February 2006. brokers pay away some of the increased commission earned to the SSRs, to compensate them for the The Management Agreement replaced that between research provided to Fidelity.
Under FSA regulations this the same parties dated 19 October 1994 and provides type of payment from one broker to another is currently for an annual fee of an amount equal to 0.875 per cent treated as softing.
The Managers soft commission of net assets per annum for investment management policy complies with the UK regulations.
Fidelity adopts and 600,000 for non-portfolio management services a best execution policy that applies to all transactions payable quarterly in arrears and calculated as of the last in all instruments, regardless of the fund or account or business day of March, June, September and December location of the trading desk.
In computing the asset value, the value of Page 26 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Directors Report The Manager has an arrangement with certain approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital brokers whereby a portion of commissions from security of the Company as at 3 November 2009.
The Directors transactions may be paid to the Company to reduce would not intend to use this power unless the premium transaction costs.
Amounts received by the Company was in excess of 2% and unless they considered that it under this arrangement are credited to capital.
In was in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Resolution 12 is a special resolution disapplying preemption rights and granting authority to the Directors, The Company participates in the Managers interfund without further specific shareholder approval, to make programme whereby Fidelitys traders, on occasion, allotments of equity securities for cash by way of a identify situations where one fund managed by Fidelity rights issues and b other issues up to an aggregate is buying the same security that another fund is selling.
nominal value of 1,423,472 approximately 10% of If a trader can confirm that it would be in the interests the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as of both accounts to execute a transaction between them at 3 November 2009. rather than in the market then an interfund transaction is executed.
Resolution 13 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew the Companys authority to purchase up to There is a regulatory requirement on the Manager to 14.99% of the number of ordinary shares in issue on obtain best execution and no individual deal is entered 3 November 2009 for cancellation.
Purchases of ordinary into which prevents compliance with this requirement.
shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT of prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be The Managers primary objective is to produce superior made in the market at prices below the prevailing net financial returns for the Companys Shareholders.
asset value per share, thereby resulting in an increased It believes that high standards of corporate social net asset value per share.
responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment Resolution 14 is a special resolution amending the returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes Companys Articles of Association to include a number of social, environmental and ethical issues into account changes required by the further and final implementation when, in the Managers view, these have a material of the Companies Act 2006 and to increase the impact on either investment risk or return.
maximum aggregate fees payable to the Directors.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR of Meeting contained on pages 57 to 61.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own Recommendation: The Board considers that each of personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank the resolutions is likely to promote the success of the manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised Company and is in the best interests of the Company under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of The Board is recommending to shareholders the the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their approval of a dividend of 9 pence per share for the year own beneficial holdings.
If approved, this dividend will be paid on 23 December 2009 to shareholders on the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE register on 13 November 2009.
The ex-dividend date Full details are given in the Corporate Governance will be 11 November 2009.
In addition, resolutions will Statement which forms part of the Directors Report, be imposed to renew the Directors authority to allot which can be found on pages 30 to 34. securities in the Company.
The authorities sought by these resolutions are to replace the existing powers of AUDITORS RIGHT TO INFORMATION the Directors which expire on the date of the Annual As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 General Meeting and to provide the Directors with the the Directors in office as at the date of this report each flexibility to issue further ordinary shares if they deem it confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not permitted audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares unless each Director has taken all the steps that ought to have authorised to do so by shareholders.
been taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Resolution 11 provides the Directors with a general Auditor is aware of that information.
authority to allot securities in the Company up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,423,472.
If passed, this AUDITORS APPOINTMENT resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP of 5,693,888 ordinary shares which represents as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009 Page 27 Directors Report forthcoming AGM together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities and the factors likely to affect its future performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 22 to 24.
Further details on the management of financial risk may be found in Note 20 to the Financial Statements on pages 51 to 56.
The Board receives regular reports from the Manager and the Directors believe that, as no material uncertainties leading to significant doubt about going concern have been identified, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The next continuation vote will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 3 November 2009 Page 28 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2009
