214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 18 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 18 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review performance of the Benchmark since the launch of the CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY Company in 1995.
The performance fee amounts to 16.5% of Terms of payment are negotiated with suppliers when any outperformance of the net asset value over the agreeing settlement details for transactions.
While the Benchmark, the Investment Manager receiving 15.0% and the Company does not follow a formal code, it is the Companys Manager receiving 1.5% of the outperformance.
continuing policy to pay amounts due to creditors as and when they become due.
As at 31 March 2009, the Company At each quarterly calculation date any performance fee did not have any trade creditors 2008: Nil.
payable is based on the lower of: i the cumulative outperformance of the portfolio over the CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Benchmark as at the quarter end date: and The Company has not in the past and does not intend in ii the cumulative out-performance of the portfolio over the future to make any charitable or political donations.
Benchmark as at the corresponding quarter end date in ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL POLICY the previous year.
The Companys primary objective is to achieve a high level of In the year under review no performance fee was paid.
capital growth by investment in pharmaceutical and However, a performance fee of 224,000 was accrued as at biotechnology companies and recognises that this should be 31 March 2009 see note 3 on page 39. done in an environmentally responsible way.
The Company supports the action being taken by the major pharmaceutical CONTINUING APPOINTMENT OF THE companies to make products more affordable to patients in MANAGER AND INVESTMENT MANAGER developing countries.
The Directors believe that the Company The Board has concluded that it is in shareholders interests would be in breach of its fiduciary duties to shareholders if that the Manager and the Investment Manager continue in investment decisions were based solely on ethical or their roles.
The review undertaken by the Board considered the environmental considerations.
Companys investment performance over both the short and longer terms, together with the quality and adequacy of other DIRECTORS services provided.
The Board also reviewed the The Directors of the Company, who served throughout the appropriateness of the terms of the Investment Management year except where stated, are all non-executive and are and Management Agreements, in particular the length of listed below.
The biographies of the Directors in post at notice period and the fee structures.
31 March 2009 can be found on pages 4 and 5.
GOING CONCERN Martin Smith Chairman Notwithstanding that an ordinary resolution will be proposed Josephine Dixon at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that the Company Paul Gaunt continues as an investment trust, the Directors believe that it is Professor Duncan Geddes appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Dr David Holbrook financial statements as the assets of the Company consist Samuel D Isaly mainly of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, Ian Ivory retired 23 July 2008 the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in Anthony Townsend operational existence for the foreseeable future.
