214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 09 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 09 Review of Investments continued stimulate new basic research, particularly in oncology, while an particularly in the U. S. and a broad push towards expanded additional $1 billion of funding for the U. S. Food and Drug healthcare coverage for consumers in many large markets such Administration FDA will help to expedite decision-making as the U. S. and China.
We are focused on finding investment and hopefully improve efficiency and morale after a period of opportunities that will benefit from these trends.
Some key lacklustre effectiveness by the agency.
President Obamas pick elements of our portfolio strategy going into 2009 include: to run the FDA, Dr. Margaret Hamburg, is viewed as a Substantial investments in several undervalued major reasonable, pragmatic leader for the agency, able to draw on biotechnology companies that are trading near historically her past experience as the former Health Commissioner of low valuations despite 15% to 20% expected future New York City and previous work at the NIH.
earnings growth rates, full product pipelines, low risk of generic competition, and high product margins: MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS Holdings of selected biotechnology companies that are BONANZA clear acquisition targets.
We have generated substantial As mentioned earlier, our investment theme focused on M&A profits from our M&A investment strategy in previous years targets which yielded strong results during the year.
The recent and we expect 2009 to be no exception: surge in acquisitions coupled with high premiums paid for the acquired companies demonstrate continued strong demand Investments in selected emerging biotechnology from large pharmaceutical companies as they look to smaller companies which have recently launched or will soon discovery companies to offset their generally low research launch a potential break out product.
As shown in the table on the previous page, the past transitioning from development stage to commercial stage year has seen over a score of acquisitions of smaller discovery often experience significant relative valuation increases as companies.
Fortunately for the investors in these acquired the investment thesis becomes fide-risked, attracting a companies, the premium paid for them has averaged upwards of broader base of potential investors: and 50%.
Cautious stance towards some of the 15 remaining large In addition to these smaller deals, there have been several pharmaceutical stocks, which are facing a perfect storm blockbuster announcements over the past year, such as Pfizers challenge to their business model.
They are confronting $68 billion bid for Wyeth, Mercks $41 billion bid for Scheringlow research productivity and an unprecedented wave of Plough, and Roches $44 billion bid for the balance of patent expirations over the coming years, as over $100 Genentech.
We have been adept at positioning the Company billion in branded drug sales will be genericised by 2014. advantageously to profit from M&A activity with several of the Thus within this segment we are focused selectively on Companys stocks having received acquisition offers during the finding contrarian deep-value investments in companies year.
with high dividends, trough valuations, potential to be acquired and favourable product-specific catalysts.
The Company is well structured to continue profiting from the high level of M&A activity, as a substantial number of our As always, we appreciate and thank you for your support.
holdings are in small and mid-sized companies with products that would be attractive to numerous larger strategic buyers.
Samuel D Isaly OrbiMed Capital LLC OUR GAME PLAN FOR 2009 AND Investment Manager BEYOND 11 June 2009 The coming years promise to be an exciting time for investors in the healthcare sector as we expect a continued flurry of M&A activity, the successful development of several blockbuster new products, improved regulatory efficiency
