214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 16 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 16 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review Liquidity Risk those foreign currencies.
The Board has made clear the The Companys assets comprise mainly realisable securities, Companys position with regard to currency fluctuation, which which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
is that it does not currently hedge against currency exposure.
Portfolio Performance and Financial Instruments Loan Facility Risk The provider of the Companys loan Investment performance may not be meeting the facility may no longer be prepared to lend to the investment objective or shareholder requirements Company The Board regularly reviews investment performance against The Board and the Investment Manager are kept fully informed the benchmark and against peer group.
The Board also of any likelihood of the withdrawal of the loan facility so that receives regular reports that show an analysis of performance repayment can be effected in an orderly fashion.
compared with other relevant indices.
The Investment Credit Risk Manager provides an explanation of stock selection decisions Certain of the Companys assets are held by Goldman Sachs & and an overall rationale for the make-up of the investment Co. New York as collateral for the loan provided by them to the portfolio.
The Investment Manager discusses current and Company.
Such assets held by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York potential investment holdings with the Board on a regular are available for rehypothecation see Glossary on page 60. basis in addition to new initiatives, which may enhance shareholder returns.
Further information on financial instruments and risk, as required by FRS 29, can be found in note 18 to the financial Operational and Regulatory Compliance with s842, statements beginning on page 45.
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 A breach of s842 could lead to the Company being subject to LOAN FACILITY capital gains tax on the sale of its investments, whilst serious Following the expiry of the Companys committed breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from multicurrency loan facility with Allied Irish Banks p. l. c. on the Stock Exchange or to a qualified Audit Report.
Other control 31 December 2008, its borrowing requirements are now met failures, either by the Manager, the Investment Manager or any through the utilisation of a loan facility, repayable on demand, other of the Companys service providers, may result in provided by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York.
operational and or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
SHARE CAPITAL A total of 13,070 shares were allotted on 4 August 2008, raising The Manager reviews the level of compliance with s842 and 61,000, as a result of certain holders of the Companys other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All warrants exercising their subscription rights on 31 July 2008.
At investment transactions and income and expenditure forecasts the Annual General Meeting held on 23 July 2008, authority are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all risks, was granted for the repurchase of 6,656,521 shares of 25p, the measures in place to control them and the possibility of any representing 14.99% of the issued share capital at that time.
In other risks that could arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory the year under review, the Company bought back a total of assurances are received from service providers.
The Compliance 4,841,800 shares, 3,058,050 of which are held in treasury, at a Officer of the Manager and the Investment Manager produce cost of 24,746,000 including expenses.
Since the year end regular reports for review by the Companys Audit Committee and to 11 June 2009, a further 1,352,097 shares, costing and are available to attend meetings in person if required.
6,973,000 including expenses, have been repurchased, Currency Risk 927,347 of which are held in treasury and 424,750 have been A significant proportion of the Companys assets are, and will cancelled as the Company has now reached the maximum continue to be, invested in securities denominated in foreign amount of shares that it can hold in treasury.
In aggregate, to currencies, in particular U. S. dollars.
As the shares are 11 June 2009, the shares bought back equate to a total of denominated and traded in sterling, the return to shareholders 13.4% of the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
will be affected by changes in the value of sterling relative to As indicated in the Chairmans Statement, the Board has
