214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 04 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 04 Your Board The Board of Directors, all of whom are non-executive, PROFESSOR supervise the management of Finsbury Worldwide DUNCAN GEDDES Pharmaceutical Trust PLC and look after the interests of Professor Geddes, aged 67, joined shareholders.
the Board at launch in 1995 and has been designated as the Senior MARTIN SMITH Independent Director.
An author of CHAIRMAN numerous publications on Martin Smith, aged 66, joined the respiratory medicine, Professor Board in 2007.
He was a founder Geddes is self-employed.
and was a non executive director of New Star Asset Management PAUL GAUNT Group PLC.
He attended Oxford Paul Gaunt, aged 60, joined the Board at launch in 1995.
Paul is University and has an MBA from self-employed and has 30 years experience in the investment Stanford University.
He was formerly Senior Investment Manager and an founder of Phoenix Securities, a private investment banking Assistant General Manager of The Equitable Life Assurance firm.
Following the acquisition of Phoenix in 1997 by Society and a Director of Brit Insurance Holdings PLC and Oasis Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette DLJ, he chaired DLJs Healthcare PLC.
Paul is a Director of RCM Technology Trust PLC European Investment Banking Group.
Previously he worked at and also of The Biotech Growth Trust PLC: OrbiMed Capital LLC, Citicorp and Bankers Trust.
the Companys Investment Manager, also acts as Investment JOSEPHINE DIXON Manager for The Biotech Growth Josephine Jo Dixon, aged 49, joined the Board in 2004.
Chartered Accountant, Jo is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jo is self-employed and is also a non-executive director of Baring Emerging Europe PLC and a member of the Greenwich Hospital Advisory Board and Panel.
Until 2003 Jo held a number of senior executive positions in investment banking, leisure and support services.
214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 05 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 05 DR DAVID ANTHONY HOLBROOK TOWNSEND Dr David Holbrook, aged 49, joined Anthony Townsend, aged 61, the Board in 2007.
He is a qualified joined the Board at launch in 1995. physician and a Director of MTI Anthony has spent 40 years Partners Limited, a leading working in the City and was technology venture capital investor.
Chairman of The Association of He attended London and Oxford Investment Companies from 2001 Universities, and has an MBA from to 2003.
Anthony is Chairman of Harvard Business School.
He has held senior positions in a iimia Investment Trust plc, British & American Investment Trust number of blue chip biopharmaceutical organisations PLC, F&C Global Smaller Companies PLC and Finsbury Growth including GlaxoSmithKline and Roche.
SAMUEL D ISALY Sam Isaly, aged 64, joined the Board at launch in 1995.
Sam is Managing Partner of OrbiMed Capital LLC, the Companys Investment Manager, and has been a worldwide pharmaceutical investment specialist for more than 20 years having worked in New York and Europe with Chase Manhattan, Socit Gnrale, Crdit Suisse and UBS Warburg.
Other than those stated above, none of the Directors has any other connections with the Investment Manager and is not employed by any of the companies in which the Company holds an investment.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
