214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 17 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 17 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review agreed that any treasury shares remaining on 17 July 2009, the advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance date of the Annual General Meeting, will be cancelled.
A total requirements: of 2,679,750 shares held in treasury were cancelled on 24 July maintaining the books of account and record in respect of 2008.
Company dealing, investments, transactions, dividends and other income, the income account, balance sheet and cash PROSPECTS books and statements: The economic outlook remains uncertain and stock market preparation and despatch of the audited annual and conditions will continue to be volatile and difficult.
The Board unaudited interim report and accounts and interim continues to closely monitor developments in the healthcare management statements: and sector and to explore new investment opportunities within it.
attending to general tax affairs where necessary.
Continued merger and acquisition activity is expected in the sector, together with the successful development of a number INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT of important new products, improved regulatory efficiency at Investment Management Agreement: the U. S. Food and Drug Administration which should result in a Investment Management Services are provided by the more positive stance towards new drug approvals and a Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager is authorised movement towards expanded healthcare coverage for and regulated by the U. S. Securities and Exchange consumers in many large markets such as the U. S. and China.
The Investment Manager receives a periodic fee However, there are concerns with regard to the prospects for equal to 0.65% p. a. of the Companys net asset value.
The large pharmaceutical companies which are facing the prospect Investment Management Agreement may be terminated by of low research productivity and an unprecedented wave of either party giving notice of not less than 12 months.
The patent expirations over the coming years.
Investment Manager under the terms of the agreement Further information can be found in the Review of provides, inter alia, the following services: Investments, provided by the Companys Investment Manager, seeking out and evaluating investment opportunities: that begins on page 7. recommending the manner by which monies should be MANAGEMENT invested, disinvested, retained or realised: Management, Administrative and Secretarial Services Agreement: advising on how rights conferred by the investments Management, Administrative, Secretarial and other services are should be exercised: provided to the Company by the Manager.
The Manager is analysing the performance of investments made: and authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
advising the Company in relation to trends, market Frostrow Capital LLP, as Manager, receives a periodic fee equal movements and other matters which may affect the to 0.30% per annum of the Companys market capitalisation up investment policy of the Company.
to 150m and 0.20% per annum of the market capitalisation in Performance Fee: excess of 150m, plus a fixed amount equal to 50,000 Dependent on the level of performance achieved, the per annum.
Manager and Investment Manager are also entitled to the The notice period on the Management, Administration and payment of a performance fee.
The performance fee is Company Secretarial Agreement with Frostrow is 12 months, calculated by reference to the amount by which the termination can be initiated by either party.
Companys portfolio has out-performed the Datastream World The Manager, under the terms of the agreement provides, inter Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Index total return, sterling alia, the following services: adjusted the Benchmark.
marketing and shareholder services: The fee is calculated quarterly by comparing the cumulative performance of the Companys portfolio with the cumulative administrative services:
