214665 Finsbury WWP pp14-pp23 6 15 09 1:23 PM Page 14 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 14 Report of the Directors Incorporating the Business Review The Directors present their report and the audited financial The Company will not invest more than 15% of the statements for the year ended 31 March 2009. portfolio in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition: STATUS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY 60% of the portfolio will normally be invested in larger During the year under review the Company has continued to companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of at least conduct its affairs so as to qualify as an investment company, as US$5bn : defined under s833 of the Companies Act 2006, and an 20% of the portfolio will normally be invested in smaller investment trust within the meaning of s842 of the Income and companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of less than Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs approval US$5bn : of the Companys status as an investment trust has been received for all years up to and including the year ended 31 Investment in unquoted securities will not exceed 10% of March 2008.
This is, however, subject to review should there be the portfolio at the time of acquisition: any enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The A maximum of 5% of the portfolio may be invested in each Directors are of the opinion that the Company has of debt instruments, convertibles and royalty bonds issued subsequently directed its affairs so as to enable it to continue to by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies: obtain HM Revenue & Customs approval as an investment trust.
The Companys gearing policy is to borrow up to the lower The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks of 70m or 20% of the Companys net asset value: and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
Derivative transactions can be used to mitigate risk or enhance capital returns and will be restricted to 5% of the CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY portfolio: and It is not the Directors intention that the Company should have Equity Swaps e. g. M&A Basket may be used in order to a limited life.
However, in accordance with the Companys meet the Companys investment objective of achieving a Articles of Association, shareholders have an opportunity to high level of capital growth and is restricted to 5% of the vote on the continuation of the Company at this years Annual portfolio.
General Meeting and every five years thereafter.
Compliance with the Boards investment limitations and INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND BENCHMARK guidelines is monitored continuously by Frostrow Capital LLP The Company invests worldwide in the shares of Frostrow or the Manager and OrbiMed Capital LLC pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and related OrbiMed or the Investment Manager and is reported to the securities with the objective of achieving a high level of capital Board on a monthly basis.
Performance is measured against the Datastream World Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Index total return, PERFORMANCE sterling adjusted.
In the year to 31 March 2009, the Companys undiluted net asset value per share increased by 30.7% compared to a rise of INVESTMENT POLICY 14.9% in the Datastream World Pharmaceutical and In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company Biotechnology Index total return, sterling adjusted.
The invests in a diversified portfolio of shares in pharmaceutical Companys share price rose by 20.5% in the same period.
and biotechnology companies and related securities on a worldwide basis.
It uses gearing and derivative transactions to The Review of Investments on pages 7 to 10 includes a review mitigate risk and also to enhance capital returns.
of the principal developments during the year, together with information on investment activity within the Investment Limitations and Guidelines Companys portfolio.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various investment limits and restrictions: The Company will not invest more than 15% of its assets in other UK listed investment companies:
