214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 07 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 07 Review of Investments We present with pleasure our suffered profound stock price declines despite having annual Review of Investments for continued strong fundamental prospects.
Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Following agreement by the Board that up to 5% of the Trust PLC, which was launched in portfolio could be allocated to each of debt instruments, April 1995. convertibles and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, two such investments have been PERFORMANCE made to date, one in a convertible bond issued by genetics REVIEW company Affymetrix and the other in a bond issued by We are delighted to report very biotechnology company Elan.
Samuel D Isaly strong performance results this year from both an absolute and a relative perspective.
The HEALTHCARE IN THE EYE OF THE Companys undiluted net asset value per share increased by FINANCIAL MARKET STORM 30.7%, a rate of increase approximately double the 14.9% Amidst the worst financial market collapse in over a increase recorded by our benchmark index.
Since inception in generation, the healthcare sector validated its reputation as a 1995, the cumulative increase of the Companys undiluted net defensive sector, providing something of a safe haven and asset value per share now measures 535.9% compared to a largely preserving investor capital.
Underpinning the strong cumulative increase of only 264.6% in the benchmark index.
relative performance of the sector has been a combination of There were major movements in exchange rates in the course reasonably stable earnings for the larger companies, resurgent of the year with, for example, the U. S. dollar appreciating mergers and acquisition M&A activity and a rotation of against sterling by 28%.
These exchange movements had a investor capital into the healthcare sector away from more favourable, although difficult to quantify specifically, impact on cyclical and  related sectors.
This the net asset value of the Company.
About 70% of portfolio rotation into healthcare stocks is reminiscent of the 1990 1991 holdings are denominated in U. S. dollars and the companies economic slowdown, a period with many parallels to todays represented do business on a worldwide scale.
The Companys declining housing markets, financial markets stresses, rising accounting currency is sterling and a strong U. S. dollar has corporate and individual default rates and poor economic helped the Companys returns when their value is translated growth.
The biotechnology sector posted extraordinary gains back into sterling.
However, we should note that as these during this period, with the Amex Biotechnology Index companies trade on a global basis, movements in exchange increasing 46% in 1990 and over 190% in 1991. rates have had an effect, both positive and negative, on their Looking forward over the next five years, the global economy own results.
will clearly have to contend with the ramifications of the As we have been touting for several years, investors in the deleveraging of the U. S. consumer.
As of last year, the U. S. healthcare sector have an opportunity to earn outsized economy represented approximately a quarter of the global rewards by investing in companies which are subsequently economy, and of this figure nearly 70% was accounted for by acquired.
This strategy was essential to our success over the consumer spending, compared with 50% to 60% for many past year, as four of the Companys top performing stocks European countries.
At its nadir last year, the U. S. savings rate received acquisition offers during the year.
These acquisitions actually turned negative, meaning U. S. consumers spent more include Tepnel, Imclone, Genentech and Schering-Plough.
than 100% of their disposable income.
As the U. S. retrenches from this consumer-driven growth bubble, many sectors of the The only concentrated area of weakness for the Companys global economy that are tied to discretionary spending and performance last year was in smaller biotechnology the U. S. consumer in particular will face significant headwinds companies, which were generally punished by the collapse of over the coming years.
We expect healthcare companies will the financial markets.
As investors became more risk averse, be well-positioned to maintain their growth rates during this development-stage companies such as Xoma and Amylin
