214665 Finsbury WWP Cover 6 15 09 1:56 PM Page 2 AT SOME POINT IN OUR LIVES, WE ALL NEED THE PRODUCTS OF PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANIES Performance Summary 1 Income Statement 33 Chairmans Statement 2-3 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 34 Your Board 4-5 Balance Sheet 35 A Special Relationship 6 Cash Flow Statement 36 Review of Investments 7-10 Notes to the Financial Statements 37-50 Champions of Innovation 11 Explanatory Notes of Principal Changes to Portfolio 12 the Companys Articles of Association 51-53 Analysis of the Portfolio 13 Notice of Annual General Meeting 54-58 Report of the Directors Incorporating the Business Review 14-22 Alliance Trust Savings Limited and Statement of  23 Capita Registrars Share Dealing Service 59 Corporate Governance 24-28 Glossary 60 Shareholder Analysis 28 Company Information 61 Directors Remuneration Report 29-30 Disability Act 61 Independent Auditors Report 31-32 WHO ARE WE?
WHY INVEST IN THE PHARMACEUTICAL AND Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC is a specialist BIOTECHNOLOGY SECTOR?
investment trust focussing on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector.
The percentage of the developed worlds population over the age of 65 is rapidly increasing.
Launched in 1995, the Company is one of the few UK investment trusts that invests exclusively in pharmaceutical By 2025 the number of people aged 65 and over will have and biotechnology companies on a global scale.
doubled, compared with an increase of only 6% for the under 15s.
The ultimate aim of the Company is to achieve a high level of capital growth for investors.
An ageing population means more demand on healthcare for new and better drugs.
Risk is reduced through extensive fundamental research, worldwide exposure, position limits and balanced market Over the past two decades healthcare expenditure capitalisations.
has been increasing throughout the world and this trend will continue to escalate.
Healthcare accounts for in excess Performance is measured against the Datastream World of 16% of U. S. GDP today, up from 6% in 1965.
Pharmaceutical and Biotechnology Index total return, sterling adjusted.
All over the world, new drugs and treatments are in development.
Within this decade the health sciences industry is expected Investment Expertise at launch, the Company engaged to achieve startling breakthroughs in treatment for what it believed to be the best investment manager in diseases such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes and their field in the world, OrbiMed Capital LLC.
is managed by a talented team of investment professionals who are true specialists they research pharmaceutical, Source: United Nations Population Division biotechnology and medical device stocks.
The long term U. S. Department of Health & Human Services performance figures are a testament to their continuing OrbiMed Capital LLC expertise.
For their review of the Company for the year see pages 7 to 10.
To learn more about OrbiMed and their investment strategy and process, please refer to their profile on page 6.
Performance OrbiMed is committed to producing excellent long term performance by seeking the best investments on a worldwide basis.
By having a blend of pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in the Companys portfolio, the aim is to provide superior investment returns to shareholders without assuming undue risk.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
