214665 Finsbury WWP FC-pp13 6 15 09 1:19 PM Page 11 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC Annual Report 2009 11 Champions of Innovation INDUSTRY LEADING INVESTMENTS IN THE PORTFOLIO 1 ROCHE 3 BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB Roche is a good example of how a traditional Big Pharma Bristol-Myers is one of the remaining approximately dozen company can reinvent itself as a more dynamic, high growth traditional Big Pharma companies with worldwide sales of biopharmaceutical company.
Thanks to their long standing approximately $20 billion in 2008.
The company markets a affiliation with Genentech, which recently culminated in an broad set of products across therapeutic areas including outright acquisition of Genentech, Roche has developed a oncology, cardiovascular disease, psychiatric disorders, and broad pipeline of valuable, innovative biologics therapies such infectious disease.
However, their current portfolio of marketed as Avastin for cancer and Lucentis for Macular Degeneration.
products spans both primary and specialty care as well as With the acquisition now complete, Roche has cemented for biologics and small molecules.
With top tier earnings growth itself a place among the truly dominant global and an impressive pipeline of late stage product candidates, biopharmaceutical companies worldwide, with expected 2009 the company is a prime M&A candidate in the ongoing total revenues of over $40 billion.
consolidation of major pharmaceutical companies.
2 BIOGEN IDEC 4 ALLOS THERAPEUTICS Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec has emerged as one of the Allos is an emerging biotechnology company focused on foremost major biotechnology companies worldwide.
They are developing drugs for the treatment of cancer.
The companys a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, lead product candidate, Pralatrexate, has been submitted to and commercialisation of innovative therapies.
Patients in the FDA for approval.
Pralatrexate has shown convincing more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idecs significant efficacy for the treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma.
The products, which include Avonex and Tysabri for multiple drug is also being evaluated in patients with other cancers, sclerosis and Rituxan for lymphoma.
The company also has one including non-small cell lung cancer, bladder cancer and a of the largest biologics manufacturing capabilities in the world.
The company currently retains exclusive In 2008, Biogen Idecs total revenues grew 29% over 2007 to worldwide rights to Pralatrexate, making Allos a potentially $4.1 billion.
attractive acquisition candidate by larger companies.
