Fund Managers Review was to reduce borrowings, so there would be plenty of firepower to take advantage of the distress of others.
These two worries turned out to be unfounded.
The global financial and monetary stimulus meant that listed markets started to recover, which relieved the pressure on many investors.
As a result, there was much less distress in private equity than we expected and the opportunities we were hoping for did not materialise.
As investor confidence recovered further in the second half of the year, there was a pick up in Jeremy Tigue the rate of buybacks, as some shareholders decided Fund Manager to sell our shares to buy assets they considered more exciting.
This was the main reason for portfolio sales in the second half of the year.
Later I became more cautious about prospects for markets and we The simplest way to describe 2009 is that it was the reduced borrowings again in December 2009. opposite of 2008.
Almost all stocks, sectors, markets In the autumn of 2008, we decided to increase our and investment strategies that did poorly in 2008 short-term borrowing facilities to 200m to ensure did well in 2009, and all those that held up in 2008 we would have ready access to cash, if attractive produced relatively poor returns this year.
Being too buying opportunities appeared.
When it became optimistic about the future was my biggest mistake clear these opportunities were not materialising, in 2008, and not being optimistic enough the biggest we decided to reduce the facilities back to 100m.
However, the cost of renewing these reduced facilities increased substantially during the year, as What we did and why the banks sought to increase their revenues.
In the first half of the year I had two main worries.
In contrast to previous years we had no shortThe financial crisis was fast moving and had many term borrowings in foreign currencies.
Sterling had unexpected consequences, so my top priority been very weak at the end of 2008 and recovered was to maintain as much flexibility and freedom of during 2009.
This had the effect of increasing our UK manoeuvre as possible.
My other concern was about weighting even though we were not optimistic about our private equity portfolio.
I knew it would fall in value the prospects for the UK economy.
in 2009, but I also thought there would be some great investment opportunities, particularly from distressed sellers.
As a result of these two worries the most Percentage changes in the asset mix of our portfolio in 2009 important activity in the first few months of the year 5% 4% 3% Distribution of our portfolio as at 31 December 2009 2% 1% Europe ex UK 10.2% UK 36.0% 0% North America 20.0% Japan 4.8% -1% Private Equity 14.2% Developed Asia 4.5% -2% UK Developed Emerging Private Europe Japan North Asia Markets Equity ex UK America Emerging Markets 10.3% Source: F&C Management Limited Source: F&C Management Limited Report and Accounts 2009 7
