Directors Report and Business Review continued The Managers fees the management of the North America portfolio, The Manager was paid a fixed fee of 6.7 million up until the termination of the advisory agreement 2008: same for its services in 2009, less amounts in February 2009.
Investment management fees equal to the fees already received in respect of were also incurred from the sub-managers appointed holdings in the portfolio that it also manages.
The to manage both that and the Japan portfolio.
The fixed fee is subject to annual review and for 2010 it Company reimburses the Manager for these fees, increases to 6.8 million.
which in 2009 amounted to 1.5 million 2008: 2.2 The Manager is also entitled to two separate million.
The fee for managing the Japan portfolio, performance-related fees: following the reappointment of F&C as its manager 5% of any net asset value total return per share in January 2010, will be covered under the fixed fee outperformance of the benchmark of 40% FTSE payable to F&C.
All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices the composite benchmark plus a hurdle of Private equity managers fees 0.5%: and The fees incurred by the Company in respect of 5% of any net asset value total return per share the private equity funds of funds managed by outperformance of the weighted average of those of Pantheon and HarbourVest amounted to 5.5 the Companys five closest peers within the Global million for 2009 2008: 5.5 million.
Some of the Growth Investment Trust sector Alliance Trust, funds have arrangements whereby Pantheon and The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment HarbourVest share in the profits once certain hurdle Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and rates of return to investors have been achieved.
Witan Investment Trust the close peer group.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but The performance-related fees are calculated are on normal commercial terms within the private on a cumulative basis, carrying forward any equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underperformance, or any outperformance beyond a underlying funds are negotiated by Pantheon and 3% cap, in any period.
These arrangements also vary from are based on adjusted net assets with debentures fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum at market value.
The condition under which payment and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle is deferred, if the share price has fallen over the rate of return for investors has been achieved, would year, applies to the composite benchmark element be quite normal.
of the arrangement only, as does deduction for the effect of share buybacks and the 0.5% hurdle.
No Creditor payment policy performance-related fee was paid for 2009.
Note 4 on The Companys principal supplier is the Manager, the accounts provides detailed information in relation the payment terms for which are set out above.
to the respective management and performance fees Other suppliers are paid in accordance with incurred by the Company.
With effect from 1 January 2007, the Fund At 31 December 2009 the Companys outstanding Managers own remuneration from the Manager trade creditors were equivalent to eight days was aligned more closely with the interests of payments to suppliers 2008: seven days.
A proportion of the Fund Managers discretionary annual bonus payment is represented Performance measurement by shares in the Company held on trust by FCAM The Board recognises that it is share price for three years, with vesting only at the end of performance that is most important to the such period.
Companys shareholders, coupled with a steadily rising dividend.
Underlying share price performance Sub-managers fees is net asset value performance, for which the The Manager incurred fees in respect of advice Board looks to its Manager, which has been set the from FundQuest, in relation to its delegation of performance-related fee targets set out above.
22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
