About your Company Objective Performance To secure long-term growth in capital and income Share price total return of 22.5% over one year.
through a policy of investing primarily in an Share price total return of 56.1% and 34.0% over five internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed and ten years respectively.
equities, as well as unlisted securities and private Dividend up 129%, or 8.7% compound, over equity, with the use of gearing.
Increase in dividend every year for the past 39 years.
Heritage Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment trust.
Advantages of an investment trust Pioneered the concept of collective investment, by The ability as a closed-end fund to take a longgiving the small investor the same advantage as the term view and ride out difficult conditions we large institution by reducing risk through a spread of have ridden through two world wars and many investments.
The flexibility to invest in a wide range of assets we Today have increased our exposure to private equity.
One of the largest global growth trusts, with total The freedom to borrow money to improve returns assets of over 2 billion investing in over 650 listed to shareholders in rising markets we have companies in 36 countries.
borrowed in foreign currencies at low rates for Some 109,000 shareholders, with over 87,000 many years and more recently in sterling.
investors through the F&C savings plans.
The ability to buy back shares to enhance net asset value and reduce discount volatility we have a buy Reputation back policy to keep the discount below 10% in normal Well-known and respected brand, with a reputation market conditions.
for delivering its long-term objectives in a responsible, Low charges to investors, typically well below prudent and effective way.
those for comparable unit trusts our total expense ratio for 2009 was 0.58%.
The cumulative benefits of Management such low costs over many years are very significant Independent Board of Directors responsible for for long-term investors.
overall strategy and monitoring performance.
Management of the investments is carried out by F&C Management Limited the Manager or F&C under contract.
The Manager is incentivised to produce superior performance.
External third party sub-managers are used to enhance investment performance where appropriate.
No cross-directorships, no cross-holdings and no conflicts of interest exist between the Company and its Manager.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
