Directors Report and Business Review continued wholly or mainly from shares and securities and Shareholders will be asked to approve the retaining no more than 15% of such income, qualifies adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the the Company as an investment trust.
This status is Annual General Meeting Resolution 1. granted annually in retrospect by HM Revenue and Customs, subject to there being no subsequent Objective and policy enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Companys investment objective is to secure The Company has qualified as an investment trust in long-term growth in capital and income through respect of all relevant years up to and including the a policy of investing primarily in an internationally year ended 31 December 2008, and continues to diversified portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well conduct its affairs in compliance with section 842. as unlisted securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
Accounting and going concern Risk diversification is achieved through geographic The Financial Statements, starting on page 40, asset allocation and industry sector and stock comply with current UK Financial Reporting selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the Standards, supplemented by the Statement general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, of Recommended Practice for Investment Trust there are no specific geographic or industry sector Companies SORP issued in January 2009.
The exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The significant accounting policies of the Company are Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the set out in note 2 on the accounts.
The unqualified total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of auditors opinion on the Financial Statements acquisition and excluding private equity investments, appears on page 39.
The Companys objective and any unlisted investment requires specific Board and policy, which is described below and is approval.
The Boards target of 10% for its private subject to regular Board monitoring processes, is equity exposure was passed during 2008 and was designed to ensure that the Company is invested 14.2% at the year end.
Additional investment in mainly in liquid, listed securities and that the level respect of calls on existing commitments, together of borrowings in Sterling and other currencies is with a substantial fall in the value of the listed normally limited to 20% of the value of shareholders portfolio or a significant weakness in Sterling, funds.
The Company retains title to all assets held may cause exposure to private equity to increase by its custodian, and has trust deeds governing its as a proportion of the total portfolio.
In these debentures and agreements relating to its borrowing circumstances, the Board intends to accommodate facilities.
Cash is held only with banks approved and any short-term fluctuations in the value of the private regularly reviewed by the Manager.
equity portfolio in excess of the Companys stated Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial 20% investment policy limit.
risk profile of the Company and indicates the effect Under the Companys Articles of Association, with on the assets and liabilities of falls and rises in: limited exceptions, no single investment may be the value of securities: the rates of exchange of made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the various currencies against Sterling: and market rates value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of The Directors believe, in the light of these controls the total assets may be invested in other listed and review processes noted above, that the closed-ended investment companies, unless such Company has adequate resources to continue in investment companies have themselves published operation, within its stated objective and policy, for investment policies to invest no more than 15% of the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts their total assets in other closed-ended investment continue to be drawn up on the basis that the companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The Company is a going concern.
Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on investment funds managed by the 16 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
