Management Team Members of the Board: Executive Directors: of England with a BA Honours Degree in Financial Services.
He joined the compliance The following directors have served during Stephen Lansdown FCA, FSI - department of Hargreaves Lansdown in the year: Chairman.
In 2001, he was appointed to the role Stephen co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown of Group Compliance Director.
Stephen qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1975 and specialised in Andrew Christian - Jonathan Bloomer - taxation with Touche Ross & Co. Stephen is Managing Director Senior Non-Executive Director.
also Chairman of Bristol City Football Club.
Jonathan became a Non-Executive Director Stephen is a Fellow of the Securities & Andrew graduated from Nottingham of the Company in September 2006.
Polytechnic now Nottingham Trent Jonathan is currently a partner in Cerberus University with a 2:1 in Law.
He joined European Capital Advisors LLP, Executive Peter Hargreaves FCA, MSI - Hargreaves Lansdown in 1991, and worked Chairman of Lucida plc and Chairman of Chief Executive.
initially on the investment helpdesk before Scottish RE Group Limited.
Previously, Peter co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in moving to Hargreaves Lansdown Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential 1981.
Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Stockbrokers in 1992.
He also spent twenty years in practice Accountant and worked for a predecessor of appointed Director of Hargreaves Lansdown with Arthur Andersen LLP.
Jonathan was KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread plc.
He took over Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the Peter is Non-Executive Chairman of ITM responsibility for all Vantage operations in FSA.
His previous positions also include Power plc and is a Member of the Securities 2003. board membership of the Association of & Investment Institute.
British Insurers, Geneva Association Alex Davies - International Association for the Study of Tracey Taylor FCCA, MSI - Director of Pensions.
Insurance Economics and Railtrack plc.
Alex joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.
Jonathan is also a Trustee and the Treasurer Tracey joined Hargreaves Lansdown in He has a degree in Politics and International of the NSPCC.
In 2001, Tracey was appointed to the Relations from the University of Kent at role of Company Secretary and in 2006 was Canterbury.
He is responsible for the Michael Evans - appointed to the role of Group Accounting pensions business SIPPs, annuities and Non-Executive Director.
Director and to the Executive Committee.
Income Drawdown as well as the Michael became a Non-Executive Director of In 2008 she was appointed to the Board and Hargreaves Lansdown website.
Since the Company in September 2006.
Michael is the position of Group Finance Director.
October 2008 Alex has also been responsible a qualified actuary with 27 years' industry Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she for IT and Systems.
He was appointed to the experience.
He is Non-Executive Chairman qualified as an accountant.
Tracey holds an board of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions of the Unitholders' Advisory Committee of MSc in Finance and is also a Member of the Direct in 2006 and to the boards of the ING Real Estate Select Global Osiris Securities & Investment Institute MSI.
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Fund and also Non-Executive Chairman of and Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in the Manager's Advisory Committee of the Martin Mulligan, formerly a member of the May 2009.
ING Real Estate Income Trust Limited and Board and Executive Committee, resigned as has recently completed a two year assignment Group Finance Director on 21 November Lee Gardhouse - as director of life insurance at Pinsent Masons 2008.
Michael was formerly Chief Operating Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd.
Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
Members of the Lee graduated from Liverpool John Moores University with a BA in Economics.
Lee Executive Committee: Jonathan Davis - joined Hargreaves Lansdown as a trainee Non-Executive Director.
Mary Theresa Barry - fund manager in 1995.
He took Jonathan became a Non-Executive Director Group Marketing Director.
responsibility for the Hargreaves Lansdown of the Company in February 2008.
Theresa graduated with a 2:1 in Politics from multi-manager fund range in 2001, and Jonathan, a former senior business journalist the University of Bristol.
She joined manages the Portfolio Management Service.
on The Times, The Economist and The Hargreaves Lansdown as the first full-time He was appointed Investment Director of Independent, is a regular columnist in the employee in 1982.
Theresa has also worked Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers in Financial Times and founder of Independent in marketing at Abbey Unit Trust Managers 2006 and was appointed to the Executive Investor LLP, an independent investment Limited in the City of London.
He has degrees in history and management from Cambridge Nigel Bence - University and MIT and is the author of Group Compliance Director.
Peter Hargreaves, Stephen Lansdown and three books on investment.
He is also a Nigel graduated with a First from Bristol Tracey Taylor are also members of the Director of Agrifirma Services Ltd. Polytechnic now the University of the West Executive Committee.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 18
