Our Business Hargreaves Lansdown oers a range of investment products, investment services, financial planning and advice.
We have established a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money products to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service.
The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private investor fund supermarket and wrap platform.
Vantage offers clients the administrative convenience of being able to hold and manage their investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds, investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing service and instant online access.
The Group also provides investment management, independent financial advisory and stockbroking services to private investors and advisory services to companies in respect of group pension schemes.
Revenue contribution 56 1 4 1 We have five main operating divisions: Vantage - 64% 3 2 Vantage Advisory - 10% 3 Advisory Third Party - 13% 4 Third Party Discretionary - 8% 2 5 Discretionary Stockbroking - 3% 6 Stockbroking Central Services - 2% in addition to our Central Support Services division.
Assets under administration at 30 June 2009 Profit before tax for the year to 30 June 2009 11.9bn 73.1m 2008: 11.1bn 2008: 60.9m Revenue for the year to 30 June 2009 Employees excluding directors at 30 June 2009 132.8m 589 2008: 120.3m 2008: 639 Offices - Bristol, also satellite oce in London, and financial advisors throughout the UK.
H-L. co. uk Recent awards 2008 2009 Best Investment Advisor - Money Marketing Awards Lifetime Achievement Award - Peter Hargreaves - New Breed Advisor Awards Best use of Platform Technology - New Breed Advisor Awards Best Online IFA - Online Finance Awards Best IFA - Personal Finance Awards Best SIPP Provider - What Investment 2007 2008 Most Effective Employer and Advisor Partnership Award - Employee Benets Best Investment Manager - FT and Investors Chronicle Wealth Management Awards IFA Personality of the Year - Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year Awards 2008 - Mark Dampier 3 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 Our Objectives Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help investors make more of their money by providing a combination of the best information, the best service and the best prices in its areas of operation, thereby creating value for clients, sta and shareholders.
Objectives Strategy Strategy We strive to make Hargreaves Lansdown To fulfil our objectives, we need toContinuing to provide a premium the best and most profitable in all the command and retain the trust of our clients personal financial advisory service, using areas in which it operates.
by consistently delivering on the our direct mail expertise to streamline We aim to attract and retain clients by commitments we make.
We must maintain the advisory process: identifying and satisfying their our client focus, putting the best long termContinuing to provide a high quality investment requirements fairly and interests of the client first, regardless of Stockbroking service: profitably.
Whether they are making short term pressures, fashions or marketContinuing to improve earnings quality their own investment decisions, or conditions.
By creating value for our clients, within the business: looking for advisory or discretionary we believe we will create long term value forHeightening the visibility of the services, we aim to offer a broad range of shareholders and provide fulfilling careers Hargreaves Lansdown brand: investment solutions.
Continuing in our commitment to We strive to provide shareholders with a provide high quality service to clients growing stream of dividend income, In particular, we shall focus on the through all the channels available, and in delivered by steady and consistent following: particular helping more clients to benefit growth in earnings per share as market from online usage: conditions permit.
Continued direct, quality service toIncreasing operational efficiency and We aim to provide our staff with generate growth in Vantage, our direct maintaining rigorous cost control: satisfying careers and an opportunity to to investor fund supermarket and wrapManaging risk effectively: and contribute to and participate in the platform:Providing independent, clear success of the business.
Delivering strong performance to information, or advice if preferred, so increase assets under management in the that people can identify their financial Hargreaves Lansdown range of multipriorities and choose appropriate manager funds and our Portfolio products and solutions.
Management Service: Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 4
