Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the aairs of the Group together with the financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 30 June 2009.
Principal Group activities The Group maintains ongoing forecasts that Capital structure indicate continued profitability in the 2010 Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent financial year.
Stress test scenarios are The Companys shares are listed on the main company of a group of companies which undertaken and the outcomes of which show market of the London Stock Exchange.
The offers a range of investment products, that the Group has adequate capital resources Companys authorised and issued share investment services, financial planning and for the foreseeable future even in adverse capital during the year and as at 30 June 2009 advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown has established economic conditions.
The Groups business are shown in note 22. a reputation for providing high quality service is highly cash generative with a low working and value-for-money products to private capital requirement: indeed, the forecast cash The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all investors, whether they are making their own flows show that the Group will remain highly respects.
Save as agreed at the general meeting investment decisions or looking for an liquid in the forthcoming financial year.
of the shareholders, the ordinary shares have advisory or discretionary service.
pre-emption rights in respect of any future The Directors therefore believe that the issues of ordinary shares to the extent conferred The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a Group is well placed to manage its business by Section 561 of the Companies Act.
direct-to-private investor fund supermarket risks successfully despite the current uncertain and wrap platform.
Vantage offers clients the economic outlook.
After making enquiries, No unissued share or loan capital of the Company administrative convenience of being able to the Directors expectation is that the Group is under option or agreed, conditionally or hold and manage their investments, including will have adequate resources to continue in unconditionally, to be put under option.
The unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds, operational existence for the foreseeable Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT, investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a subsidiary of the Company, holds Ordinary tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated the going concern basis in preparing the Shares for the EBT for the exercise of options valuation reports, a single dealing service and Annual Report and Financial Statements.
granted under the employee share schemes.
Post balance sheet events Restrictions on transfer of shares The Group also provides independent financial advisory and stockbroking services On 22 July 2009 the Company signed the At the time of the flotation of the Company to private investors and advisory services to lease for the Groups new head office.
during May 2007, the then directors of the companies in respect of group pension Further details are provided in note 33 to the Company and directors of the subsidiary schemes.
There have been no companies gave undertakings not to offer, other significant events since the balance sell or contract to sell, pledge or otherwise The subsidiary undertakings of the Group sheet date, other than the declaration of the dispose of ordinary shares directly or indirectly during the year are listed in note 16 to the final ordinary and special dividend to be paid which were held by them on Admission to the financial statements.
The principal trading on 30 September 2009 as described below main market of the London Stock Exchange subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset and in note 11. and not sold as part of the flotation, other Management Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown than in certain limited circumstances.
The Stockbrokers Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown Group results and remaining restrictions apply as follows: Fund Managers Limited and Hargreaves Company dividends Lansdown Pensions Direct Limited, are i Following the Results Announcement for authorised and regulated by the Financial Operating profit for the year ended 30 June the financial year of the Company ending Services Authority.
2009 was 69.8 million 2008: 57.7 on 30 June 2009 but prior to the Results million.
The Group profit after taxation for Announcement for the financial year of Business review the year ended 30 June 2009 was 52.1 the Company ending on 30 June 2010, million 2007: 42.4 million.
to such number of Shares as is equal to 50 A full review of the Groups business per cent.
of the total number of Lockedactivities, financial position, cash flows, Dividends are shown in note 11 to the in Shares: and liquidity position, together with the factors financial statements.
In addition to the first likely to affect its future development, interim dividend of 3.065 pence per share, ii Following the Results Announcement for performance and position are set out in the we have declared a second final ordinary the financial year of the Company ending Chairmans and Chief Executives Report on dividend of 4.229 pence per share, taking the on 30 June 2010 but prior to the Results pages 5 to 7 and the Operating and Financial total ordinary dividends up to 7.294 pence Announcement for the financial year of Review on pages 8 to 17 and are incorporated per share.
This total dividend payout equates the Company ending on 30 June 2011, into this report by reference.
In addition, to 65% 2008: 60% of post tax profits.
We do to such number of Shares as is equal to 25 note 3 to the Financial Statements discloses not intend to accumulate cash going per cent.
of the total number of Lockedthe key sources of estimation uncertainty and forwards and are therefore pleased to declare in Shares.
judgements made by the management: and a special dividend of 2.807 pence per share.
note 35 includes the Groups policies and This equates to a further 25% 2008: 25% of The restrictions set out above shall cease to processes on capital management, financial post tax profits.
Any special dividend in future apply in their entirety following the Results risk management and details on its exposure years will depend upon our future cash Announcement for the financial year of the to such risks.
requirements and therefore may vary.
19 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 Directors Report Reporting Retirement and re-election Directors interests of directors Shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are listed During the period covered by this report, no on the main market of the London Stock In accordance with the Companys Articles of director had any material interest in a Exchange and as such the Company is required Association at each annual general meeting contract to which the Company or any of its to comply with its disclosure requirements.
any director who has been in office for more subsidiary undertakings was a party other than three years or more since their than their own service contract, requiring Directors appointment or last re-appointment must disclosure under the requirements of the retire by rotation.
Those retiring shall also Companies Act 2006 except in respect of the The directors, who served throughout the include any director who wishes to retire.
A rental of the head office premises at year except as noted, were as follows: separate resolution to reappoint any director Kendal House as disclosed in note 34 to the appointed since the last annual general financial statements.
Non-executive directors: meeting must be proposed.
Jonathan Bloomer The directors who held office at 30 June Michael Evans Tracey Taylor was appointed during the year 2009 had the following interests including Jonathan Davis and offers herself for election at the beneficial interests in the shares of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Any changes in the interests of Executive directors: Jonathan Bloomer and Michael Evans both directors between 30 June 2009 and the date Peter Hargreaves Chief Executive Officer reach the end of their three year of this report are also shown below.
Stephen Lansdown Chairman appointments as non-executive directors on Tracey Taylor Finance Director appointed 18 September and 1 September 2009 The figures shown below are exclusive of any 24 November 2008 respectively.
Being eligible, each of these interests under Share Options.
Details of Share directors offers themselves for re-election.
Options which have been granted to directors Martin Mulligan former Finance Director as at the date of this report pursuant to resigned on 21 November 2008 Biographical details of the directors proposed employee share schemes are set out in the for election and re-election are shown on directors remuneration report.
J Bloomer, M Evans and J Davis are members page 18. of the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
J Bloomer acts as Chairman of these Committees and is the senior independent non-executive director.
Number and % of Ordinary Shares Number of Ordinary Shares Directors Interests at 30 June 2009 and at the date of this report at 30 June 2008 Non-executive and executive directors J Bloomer 15,625 0.01% 15,625 M Evans 15,625 0.01% 15,625 P Hargreaves 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 S Lansdown 109,060,843 22.99% 132,060,843 T Taylor 925,000 0.20% 889,224 Total 262,734,699 55.39% 285,698,923 Substantial shareholdings suppliers when agreeing the terms of each on key sources of judgements and estimation transaction, ensure that suppliers are made uncertainty are provided in note 3 to the As at 1 September 2009, the Company has not aware of the terms of payment and abide by the financial statements.
been notified of any shareholdings amounting terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group to more than 3 per cent of the issued share at 30 June 2009 were equivalent to 26 2008: Employment policies capital of the Company other than the directors 19 days purchases, based on the average daily interests which are set out in the Directors amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Disabled employees Report and the following shareholding:- Applications for employment by disabled persons Critical accounting policies are always given full and fair consideration, bearing At the date of notification, 26 August 2009, in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Adam Norris held 14,552,549 shares which The accounting policies adopted by Hargreaves In the event of members of staff becoming amounted to 3.07% of the issued share capital Lansdown have been consistently applied disabled, every effort is made to ensure that of the Company.
throughout the current and prior year and are their employment with the Group continues and set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the Supplier payment policy The preparation of our financial statements in policy of the Group that the training, career accordance with these policies has required development and promotion of disabled persons The Companys policy, which is also applied by management to make a number of estimates, should, as far as possible, be identical to that the Group, is to settle terms of payment with assumptions and judgements.
Further details of other employees.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 20 Directors Report Health and welfare targeted appropriately and that any advice we exercising such authority and the authority Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing provide is suitable for our clients.
We will will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM a safe and healthy environment in which its never impose unreasonable barriers to after the passing of the proposed resolution.
The Health and Safety prevent clients from switching their consultants who were previously engaged to investments or make a complaint.
The resolution enabling the directors to allot carry out a full review of our health and safety shares other than to existing shareholders in policy and procedures, have been retained on If clients ever feel the need to complain, our proportion to their shareholdings is limited an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are complaints handling team carefully investigate to the allotment of shares up to a maximum maintained.
As a result, risk assessments have our clients complaint and endeavour to provide nominal value of 94,863.72, which been improved and updated training for them with a fair resolution.
We benchmark our represents 5% of the total ordinary share employees with health and safety performance in treating clients fairly against capital in issue as at 21 September 2009. responsibilities is ongoing.
statistics published annually by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the industry.
The Both of these resolutions seek authorities which Employee consultation results for the 2009 financial year compared are in accordance with the current guidelines Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages against the last figures published by the issued by the Investment Committees of the employee involvement and consultation and Ombudsman show that Hargreaves Lansdown Association of British Insurers and the places emphasis on keeping its employees is achieving exceptionally good results in National Association of Pension Funds.
informed of the companys activities and treating our clients fairly if they raise a complaint.
financial performance by such means as the Share schemes employee intranet and publication to all staff Special business Three resolutions are to be proposed as of relevant information and corporate special business at the 2009 AGM to enable announcements.
Articles of Association the directors to adopt two new share incentive The companys Articles of Association can only plans and renew one existing share option Equality and diversity be amended by special resolution at a general scheme.
The existing all-employee Save as You Hargreaves Lansdown recognises, respects meeting of shareholders.
It is proposed to adopt Earn scheme will be renewed in addition to and values difference and diversity.
We are an new Articles of Association at the 2009 Annual adopting a new Hargreaves Lansdown plc equal opportunities employer and it is our policy General Meeting AGM.
Since the directors Executive Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP, to ensure that all job applicants and employees are proposing a large number of changes, to and a Library Information Services Ltd are treated fairly and on merit regardless of take account of developments in law and Executive Share Option Scheme LIS Option their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, practice applicable to companies since the current Scheme.
Further details of these schemes are religious belief or sexual orientation.
Articles of Association were adopted in 2007, it provided in the shareholders Notice of AGM.
is more appropriate to adopt new Articles of The Group seeks to ensure all employees and Association, rather than amend the existing Auditors applicants to its businesses are given equal ones.
A circular to shareholders will be sent opportunity in all aspects of employment to with the Notice of Annual General Meeting Each of the persons who is a director at the ensure that the Group's businesses attract, containing a summary of principal changes date of approval of this annual report retain and promote the best available talent.
proposed and the reasons for these changes.
confirms that: All the businesses work to embed theseso far as the director is aware, there is no principles in all aspects of their management Authority to purchase own shares relevant audit information of which the practices and to ensure that this is evident to The Company was granted authority at the Company's auditors are unaware: and employees in their day-to-day work.
Further AGM in 2008 to purchase its own shares upthe director has taken all the steps that employment information is provided in the to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued they ought to have taken as a director in Operating and Financial Review.
This authority expires at this order to make themselves aware of any years Annual General Meeting and a special relevant audit information and to Client service resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that we Directors authority to allot shares and treat our clients fairly in every aspect of our waiver of pre-emption rights This confirmation is given and should be dealings with them and to provide a first class Resolutions are to be proposed as special interpreted in accordance with the provisions service at all times.
business at the AGM on 27 November 2009 of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. to enable the directors to allot unissued shares The fair treatment of our clients is central to and, subject to the limits therein contained, to Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness our corporate culture and we aim to provide allot shares for cash other than to existing to continue in office as auditors and a the best information, the best service and the shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
resolution to reappoint them will be proposed best prices to our clients.
We strive to provide at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
clear information to all our clients and keep The resolution enabling directors to allot them appropriately informed at all times whilst unissued shares will be limited to the allotment By order of the Board, they remain a client of Hargreaves Lansdown.
of shares up to a maximum nominal amount of We aim to ensure that our services and 202,725.50, which represented the difference investment performance meet our clients between the companys authorised and issued Simon Power expectations.
We continually strive to improve share capital at 21 September 2009.
The Company Secretary our services to ensure they are designed and directors do not have any present intention of 22 September 2009 21 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
