Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review OFR describes the main trends and factors underlying our performance and position during the year ended 30 June 2009 as well as those which are likely to aect us in the future.
This OFR has been prepared with consideration to the guidance provided in the UK Accounting Standard Boards 2006 Reporting Statement on OFRs.
This OFR has been prepared to provide independent financial advisory and our revenues, maintaining tight cost additional information to shareholders to Stockbroking services to private investors and control and improving our profit margin.
assess the current position and future advisory services to companies in respect of In particular, we will focus on: potential of the Group.
It should not be group pension schemes.
relied on by any other party for any other Administration purpose.
This OFR contains forwardIn providing this breadth of services direct toproviding high quality information and looking statements that involve risks and the private investor, we offer a compelling services to our clients uncertainties.
The Groups actual results may proposition for clients.
continuous improvements to our differ materially from the results discussed in platform and infrastructure the forward-looking statements as a result of Fund supermarkets and wrap platformsgiving clients the confidence and support various economic factors or the business risks, typically focus on servicing the IFA to transact business online some of which are set out in this document.
community and are remunerated for acting asmotivating and retaining our talented administrator.
The IFA using the platform is employees Certain figures contained in this OFR, remunerated for acting as distributor.
Wemaintaining our client-focused and including financial information, have been provide our fund supermarket and wrap entrepreneurial culture subject to rounding adjustments.
platform direct to the private investor, cost control and operational efficiency Accordingly, in certain instances the sum of thereby performing the role, and capturingrelocation of our staff into a single the numbers in a column or a row in tables the economics, of both the platform provider location during the 2010 financial year contained in this document may not conform and distributor.
exactly to the total figure given for that Marketing column or row.
We believe that this business model, togethermaintaining our dialogue with clients with our significant purchasing power, expanding our investor database enables us to retain a greater share of theimproving our range of services Long Term Strategy and annual management charge, also known asremaining flexible, responsive and Key Objectives renewal commission, from fund providers opportunistic Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of than we would through acting solely as amaintaining and improving our profile investment management products and fund distributor or a fund platform provider.
continual improvement of data capture services to private investors in the UK.
and data mining We strengthen our ability to win and retain Our flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-toclients by discounting initial charges and Competition and Markets private investor fund supermarket and wrap passing on a portion of the annual platform.
Vantage offers clients the management charge to clients as a loyalty The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown administrative convenience of being able bonus on many Vantage accounts.
The operates are highly fragmented.
We compete to hold and manage their investments, Hargreaves Lansdown business model allows with other businesses providing investment including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, bonds, us to offer highly competitive prices to our products and services direct to the private investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the clients and achieve strong profitability.
These include IFAs, execution-only tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated brokers, banks, building societies, life valuation reports, a single dealing service and We aim to create shareholder value by being assurers and those fund supermarkets and instant online access.
the leading provider of investment wrap platforms which are available direct to management products and services to private the private investor.
We believe that In addition to offering externally managed investors in the UK.
Vantage is the largest fund supermarket investment products, we manage funds and wrap platform for the private investor through our own range of multi-manager Our strategy is focused on growing the in the UK.
Our target market is the UK funds and PMS, our discretionary portfolio value of assets we have under administration mass affluent population looking to invest management service.
We also provide or management and consequently increasing their savings.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 8
