HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review Principal activities Strategic direction Challenges and uncertainties Principal activities knowledge and international breadth is supported by a substantial financial capability founded on balance HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial sheet strength, largely attributable to the scale of the services organisations in the world, with a market Groups retail deposit bases.
capitalisation of US$199 billion at 31 December HSBC is, therefore, continuing to direct 2009. incremental investment primarily to the faster Through its subsidiaries and associates, HSBC growing markets and, in the more developed provides a comprehensive range of banking and markets, is focusing on businesses and customer related financial services.
Headquartered in London, segments which have international connectivity.
A HSBC operates through long-established businesses policy of maintaining HSBCs capital strength and and has an international network of some 8,000 strong liquidity position remains complementary to properties in 88 countries and territories in six these activities and is the foundation of decisions geographical regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest about the pace and direction of investment.
of Asia-Pacific: the Middle East: North America and The Group has identified three main business Latin America.
Previously, the Middle East was models for its customer groups and global businesses reported as part of Rest of Asia-Pacific.
Within these that embody HSBCs areas of natural advantage: regions, a comprehensive range of financial services is offered to personal, commercial, corporate, businesses with international customers for institutional, investment and private banking clients.
whom connections with developing markets are Services are delivered primarily by domestic banks, crucial Global Banking and Markets, Private typically with large retail deposit bases, and by Banking, the large business segment of consumer finance operations.
Commercial Banking and the mass affluent segment of Personal Financial Services: Taken together, the five largest customers of HSBC do not account for more than one per cent of businesses with local customers where service HSBCs income.
efficiencies can be enhanced through global scale the small business segment of The Group has contractual and other Commercial Banking and the mass market arrangements with numerous third parties in support segment of Personal Financial Services: and of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the products where global scale is possible by business of the Group.
applying the Groups efficiency, expertise and brand product platforms such as global There were no significant acquisitions during transaction banking.
the year for details of acquisitions see page 444.
The means of executing the strategy and making Strategic direction greater use of the linkages within the Group are clear: HSBCs strategic direction reflects its position as The worlds local bank, combining the largest the HSBC brand and global networks will be global emerging markets banking business and a leveraged to reach new customers and offer uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with an further services to existing clients: extensive international network and substantial efficiency will be enhanced by taking full financial strength.
advantage of local, regional and global The Groups strategy is aligned with the key economies of scale, in particular by adopting trends which are shaping the global economy.
In a common systems architecture wherever particular, HSBC recognises that, over the long term, possible: and developing markets are growing faster than the objectives and incentives will be aligned to mature economies, world trade is expanding at a motivate and reward staff for being fully greater rate than gross domestic product and life engaged in delivering the strategy.
expectancy is lengthening virtually everywhere.
HSBCs strategy is focused on delivering superior Challenges and uncertainties growth and earnings over time by building on the Groups heritage and skills.
Its origins in trade in Current economic and market conditions Asia have had a considerable influence over the may adversely affect HSBCs results development of the Group and, as a consequence, HSBCs earnings are affected by global and local HSBC has an established and longstanding presence economic and market conditions.
The dislocation in in many countries.
