HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance Corporate Governance Biographies Directors Page Directors Corporate Governance Report 294 S K Green, Group Chairman Directors........... 294 Age 61.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Group Managing Directors 299 since 26 February 2010.
Chairman and a director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA until Corporate governance codes.................... 308 25 February 2010.
Directors interests 316 Mr Green is a career banker having joined The Employees................ 318 Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Employee involvement 318 Limited in 1982 with responsibility for corporate Employment of disabled persons.............. 318 planning activities.
He was Group Treasurer, with Remuneration policy 318 responsibility for HSBCs treasury and capital Employee share plans 319 markets businesses globally from 1992 to 1998, and executive Director, Corporate, Investment Banking Subsidiary company share plans............... 323 and Markets, from 1998 to 2003, when he was Employee compensation and benefits....... 326 appointed Group Chief Executive.
He has worked in Bank payroll tax 326 Hong Kong, New York, the Middle East and London Corporate sustainability 326 and has extensive international experience and Business sustainability 327 knowledge of the HSBC Group.
Chairman of the Group Management Board.
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Sustainability risk 328 Banking Corporation Limited since 1 February 2010 Health and safety. 328 and chairman of HSBC Bank Canada.
Deputy Supplier payment policy 328 chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
A Rights and obligations attaching to shares 329 director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
Ceased to be chairman and a director of HSBC Bank Share capital during 2009 330 USA, N. A. and HSBC USA Inc. on 7 May 2009.
Responsible for all of HSBCs business Dividends for 2010 332 throughout South America from 2000 to 2003.
Communication with shareholders........... 332 President of HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Notifiable interests in share capital.......... 332 Mltiplo from 1997 to 2003.
Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares.......... 332 Mr Geoghegan is a career banker with over Annual General Meeting 333 35 years international experience with HSBC.
He has worked in the Americas, Asia, the Middle East Corporate Governance Report and Europe.
He established the Groups operations in Brazil in 1997 following the creation of Banco The statement of corporate governance practices set HSBC Bamerindus S. A and in 2003 he was out on pages 294 to 348 and information honoured with a CBE in recognition of his incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate contribution to British business interests in Brazil.
Governance Report of HSBC Holdings.
294 S A Catz M K T Cheung, GBS, OBE Age 48.
Non-executive chairman of the Airport executive Director since May 2008.
A non-executive Director Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from since 1 February 2009 and a member of the Group 1997 to 1999.
Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed Audit Committee since 1 March 2010.
A nonto the Board of Directors in 2001. executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, HKR International Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges Ms Catz brings to the Board a background in and Clearing Limited.
A non-official member of the international business leadership, having helped Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special transform Oracle into the second biggest producer Administrative Region.
Non-executive chairman of of management software and the worlds leading the Council of the Hong Kong University of Science supplier of software for information management.
A director of The Association of Former Council Members of The Stock Exchange V H C Cheng, GBS, OBE of Hong Kong Limited and The Hong Kong Age 61.
Chairman of HSBC Bank China Company International Film Festival Society Limited.
Ceased Limited and, since 21 January 2010, of HSBC Bank to be a non-executive director of Sun Hung Kai Taiwan Limited.
An executive Director since Properties Limited on 9 December 2009.
Appointed a and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Hong Kong Group General Manager in 1995 and a Group from 1996 to 2003.
A Council Member of the Open Managing Director in 2005.
A director of HSBC University of Hong Kong until 19 June 2009.
An independent nonAwarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong executive director of Great Eagle Holdings Limited Government in 2008. and, since 10 July 2009, of MTR Corporation Dr Cheung brings to the Board a background Limited.
Vice chairman of the China Banking in international business and financial accounting, Association.
A member of the National Committee particularly in Greater China and the wider Asian of the 11th Chinese Peoples Political Consultative economy.
He retired from KPMG Hong Kong in Conference CPPCC and a senior adviser to the 2003 after more than 30 years distinguished service 11th Beijing Municipal Committee of the CPPCC.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chairman and a director of The Hongkong and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited until 1 February 2010 and of HSBC Global Asset J D Coombe Management Hong Kong Limited until 4 February 2010.
A director of HSBC Bank Australia Limited Age 64.
Non-executive chairman of Hogg Robinson and a member of the Exchange Fund Advisory Group plc.
A Committee of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority member of the Group Audit Committee, the until 1 February 2010.
A non-executive director of Remuneration Committee and, since 26 February Swire Pacific Limited from 2005 to 2008.
Awarded 2010, the Group Risk Committee.
A non-executive the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong director of Home Retail Group plc.
A trustee of the Government in 2005.
Former appointments include: executive director and Chief Financial Mr Cheng is a career banker with extensive Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc: a non-executive international business experience particularly in director of GUS plc: a member of the Supervisory Asia.
Mr Cheng is Vice President of the Hong Kong Board of Siemens AG: chairman of The Hundred Institute of Bankers and was chairman of the Process Group of Finance Directors and a member of the Review Panel for the Securities and Futures Accounting Standards Board.
Commission and of the Standing Committee on Directorate Salaries and Conditions of Service of the Mr Coombe brings to the Board a background in Hong Kong Government.
Chairman of the Council international business, financial accounting and the of the Chinese University of Hong Kong since pharmaceutical industry.
As Chief Financial Officer 24 October 2009.
Seconded to the Hong Kong of GlaxoSmithKline he had responsibility for the Governments Central Policy Unit from 1989 to Groups financial operations globally.
He is a Fellow 1991 serving as an adviser to the Governor of Hong of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Kong.
295 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors J L Durn in 2004.
Served on the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Advisory Council of the Age 45.
Chief Executive Officer of Devanlay SA International Accounting Standards Board from since 1 July 2009.
A non-executive director of France Telecom.
Senior adviser for the Boston Consulting Mr Flint has extensive financial experience Group during the first half of 2009.
Chief Executive particularly in banking, multinational financial of Carrefour SA until December 2008.
Former reporting, treasury and securities trading operations.
appointments at Carrefour SA include: chairman of In 2006 he was honoured with a CBE in recognition its Management Board of Directors: Chief Financial of his services to the finance industry.
He is a Officer and Managing Director, Organisation and member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Systems.
Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers and he is a Fellow of The Chartered Mr Durn brings to the Board a background Institute of Management Accountants.
in international finance, retail and consulting in developed and emerging markets.
He joined A A Flockhart, CBE Carrefour SA in 1991 and held a number of positions within Carrefours businesses in Spain, southern Age 58.
Chairman, Personal and Commercial Europe and the Americas.
An executive Director since May 2008.
Appointed a R A Fairhead Group General Manager in 2002 and a Group Managing Director in 2006.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and a Latin America Holdings UK Limited since 4 director of Financial Times Group Limited.
Vice chairman and a director of executive Director since 2004.
Chairman of the HSBC Bank Vietnam Limited.
A director of Hang Group Audit Committee and, since 26 February Seng Bank Limited and HSBC Bank Australia 2010, the Group Risk Committee.
A member of the Visa Asia Pacific Senior Nomination Committee.
A director of Pearson plc Advisory Council, Visa Inc. Chairman of HSBC and chairman of Interactive Data Corporation.
A Bank Malaysia Berhad from 2007 to 5 February non-executive director of The Economist Newspaper 2010.
Chief Executive Officer of The Hongkong and Limited.
Former appointments include: Executive Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited from 2007 to Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of 1 February 2010.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Imperial Chemical Industries plc: and Finance Bank China Company Limited on 28 February Director of Pearson plc.
President and Group Managing Director Latin Mrs Fairhead brings to the Board a background America and the Caribbean from 2006 to 2007. in international industry, publishing, finance and Chief Executive Officer, Mexico from 2002 to 2006. general management.
As the former Finance Senior Executive Vice-President, Commercial Director of Pearson plc she oversaw the day to day Banking, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. from 1999 to running of the finance function and was directly 2002.
Managing Director of The Saudi British Bank responsible for global financial reporting and from 1997 to 1999. control, tax and treasury.
She has a Masters in Mr Flockhart is a career banker, being an Business Administration from the Harvard Business emerging markets specialist with over 30 years School.
experience with HSBC across Latin America, the Middle East and Asia.
In 2007 he was honoured with D J Flint, CBE, Chief Financial Officer, Executive a CBE in recognition of his services to British Director, Risk and Regulation business and charitable services and institutions in Age 54.
Joined HSBC as an executive Director in Mexico.
A non-executive director of BP p. l. c. and a member of the Consultative Committee of the Large W K L Fung, SBS, OBE Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue & Age 61.
Group Managing Director of Li & Fung Customs and the Business Government Forum on Limited.
Chairman of HSBC Finance Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability Corporation and a director of HSBC North America Committee.
Non-executive deputy chairman of The Holdings Inc. until 7 May 2009.
Co-chairman of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III in Limited.
Chaired the Financial Reporting Councils Distribution Services Group Limited, Convenience review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control 296 Retail Asia Limited and of Trinity Limited which J W J Hughes-Hallett, SBS was listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Age 60.
Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited.
An independent nonA non-executive Director since 2005.
A member of executive director of Shui On Land Limited, VTech the Nomination Committee and, since 26 February Holdings Limited, Singapore Airlines Limited since 2010, of the Group Risk Committee.
A member of 1 December 2009 and Sun Hung Kai Properties the Group Audit Committee until 1 March 2010.
Former non-executive director and former chairman of appointments include: non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Bank of Communications: chairman of the Hong Limited.
A non-executive director of The Hongkong Kong General Chamber of Commerce: the Hong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited from Kong Exporters Association: and the Hong Kong 1999 to 2004.
A trustee of the Dulwich Picture Committee for the Pacific Economic Cooperation Gallery and the Esme Fairbairn Foundation.
Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the member of The Hong Kong Association and of the Hong Kong Government in 2008.
Governing Board of the Courtauld Institute of Art.
Mr Fung brings to the Board over 30 years Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong experience in running a major international Government in 2004. conglomerate specialising in supply chain Mr Hughes-Hallett brings to the Board a management through the borderless manufacturing background in financial accounting and the of global consumer products.
During his leadership management of a broad range of businesses in a the family business of Li & Fung has become one number of international industries, including of the largest trading companies in Hong Kong aviation, property, shipping, manufacturing and with over 80 offices worldwide.
trading, in the Far East, UK, US and Australia.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants S T Gulliver in England and Wales.
Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses.
Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc.
Manager in 2000 and a Group Managing Director in A non-executive Director since January 2008.
Chairman of HSBC Private Banking Holdings A member of the Remuneration Committee.
Former Suisse SA since 25 February 2010, of HSBC Bank appointments include: Executive Vice President of Middle East Limited since 15 February 2010 and of Chevron Corporation: non-executive director of HSBC France since 1 January 2009.
A director of Hanson PLC: Chief Executive Officer of Enterprise The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Oil plc: and President and Chief Operating Officer Limited and HSBC Bank plc.
Deputy chairman and of Amerada Hess Corporation.
member of the Supervisory Board of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Chief Executive of Global Banking Mr Laidlaw brings to the Board significant and Markets.
A director of HSBC North America international experience, particularly in the energy Holdings Inc. until 7 May 2009 and of HSBC Latin sector, having had responsibility for businesses in America Holdings UK Limited until 4 December four continents.
He has a Masters in Business 2009.
Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets from Administration from INSEAD.
Head of Global Markets from 2002 to 2003.
Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in AsiaJ R Lomax Pacific from 1996 to 2002.
Former Deputy Governor, Monetary Mr Gulliver is a career banker with over Stability, at the Bank of England and member of the 28 years international experience with HSBC.
A non-executive He has held a number of key roles in the Groups Director since December 2008.
A member of the operations worldwide, including in London, Hong Group Audit Committee since 1 March 2009 and of Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab the Group Risk Committee since 26 February 2010.
Global Banking and Markets is the A non-executive director of The Scottish American wholesale banking division of the Group with Investment Company PLC and, since 31 July 2009, operations in more than 60 countries and territories.
of Reinsurance Group of America Inc. A director of the Council of Imperial College, London since 1 June 2009 and a member of the Board of the Royal National Theatre.
Former appointments include: Deputy Governor of the Bank of England from 2003 297 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors to 2008: Permanent Secretary at the UK Government N R N Murthy, CBE Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions Age 63.
Chairman and Chief Mentor and former and at the Welsh Office from 1996 to 2003: and Vice Chief Executive Officer of Infosys Technologies President and Chief of Staff to the President of the Limited.
A member of the Corporate Sustainability Ms Lomax brings to the Board business Committee and, from the conclusion of the Annual experience in both the public and private sectors and General Meeting in 2010, chairman of the a deep knowledge of the operation of the UK Committee.
A non-executive director of Unilever plc government and the financial system.
and a director of the United Nations Foundation.
A non-executive director of New Delhi Television Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, KCMG Limited until 22 July 2009.
A former non-executive director of DBS Group Holdings Limited and DBS Age 69.
Chairman of Hermes Equity Ownership Bank Limited.
Chairman of the Mr Murthy brings to the Board experience in Remuneration Committee and a member of the information technology, corporate governance and Corporate Sustainability Committee.
He founded Infosys executive director of Accenture Limited and Saudi Technologies Limited in India in 1981 and was its Aramco.
Chairman of the Global Business Coalition Chief Executive Officer for 21 years.
Under his on HIV AIDS and the Global Compact Foundation leadership, Infosys established a global footprint and and a member of the board of the UN Global was listed on NASDAQ in 1999.
Retired as a director and chairman of he has worked in France and India.
Anglo American plc on 31 July 2009.
Former appointments include: director and chairman of S M Robertson, senior independent non-executive The Shell Transport and Trading Company, plc: Director chairman of the Committee of Managing Directors Age 68.
Non-executive chairman of Rolls-Royce of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of Companies: and Group plc and the founder member of Simon a Governor of Nuffield Hospitals.
A non-executive Sir Mark brings to the Board many years Director since 2006 and senior independent nonexperience of leading global organisations, having executive Director since 2007.
A member of the worked during his career in nine countries.
A non-executive director of with many non-governmental organisations to Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, The Economist improve companies commitment to socially Newspaper Limited and Royal Opera House Covent responsible activities.
A trustee of the Eden Project Trust and of the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
G Morgan Former appointments include: Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International: and chairman of Age 64.
Non-executive chairman of SNC-Lavalin Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Group Inc. A non-executive Director since 2006.
A member of the Remuneration Committee.
A member Mr Robertson brings to the Board a background of the Board of Trustees of The Fraser Institute and in international corporate advisory with a wealth of the Manning Centre for Building Democracy.
A nonexperience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant executive director of HSBC Bank Canada from 1996 banking, investment banking and financial markets.
Former appointments include: Founding During his career he has worked in France, President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Germany, the UK and the USA.
chairman of EnCana Corporation: a director of Alcan Inc. and Lafarge North America, Inc. J L Thornton Mr Morgan brings to the Board a background in Age 56.
A non-executive Director since December technical, operational, financial and management 2008.
A member of the Remuneration Committee positions and has led large international companies since 24 April 2009 and, from the conclusion of the in the energy and engineering sectors.
He has been Annual General Meeting in 2010, chairman of the recognised as Canadas most respected Chief Committee.
Non-executive chairman and a director Executive Officer in a national poll of Chief of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. since Executives.
He is currently a business columnist December 2008.
Professor and director of the Global for Canadas largest national newspaper.
Leadership Programme at the Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management.
