HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Senior management Board of Directors The Board A P Long C D Spooner Age 54.
Group General Manager, Head of Global Age 59.
Head of Group Financial Planning & Tax.
Appointed a Group General Appointed a Group General Manager in May 2008.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Age 42.
President and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A.
Joined HSBC in HSBC Bank China Company Limited.
Appointed a Group General Manager in May HSBC in 1989.
Appointed a Group General Manager 2008. in May 2008.
A M Mahoney Board of Directors Age 47.
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, The Board Continental Europe.
The objective of the management structures within Appointed a Group General Manager in 2006.
HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to M S McCombe deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer, Hong Kong.
Joined Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is HSBC in 1987.
Appointed a Group General Manager delegated to the Group Management Board under the in May 2008. leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
The developing framework for corporate C M Meares governance best practice and regulation in the Age 52.
Chief Executive Officer, Global Private financial services industry is actively considered by Banking.
The draft recommendations and HSBCs General Manager in 2006. response to the consultation on a Review of Corporate Governance in UK Banks and other K Newman Financial Industry Entities led by Sir David Walker the Walker Review were discussed by the Board Age 52.
Group General Manager and Director of in September 2009.
Following publication of the One HSBC.
Appointed a final recommendations in November 2009, the Group General Manager in 2006.
Board agreed actions to bring HSBCs practices into line with the reviews recommendations.
The K Patel principal changes were the establishment of a Age 61.
Group General Manager, Chief Executive separate Board Risk Committee with effect from Officer, Africa.
Appointed a 26 February 2010 and broadening of the terms of Group General Manager in 2000. reference of the Remuneration Committee.
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of L J Pea-Kegel Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised Age 50.
Chief Executive, HSBC Mexico, S. A. in Board meetings where the Board acts collectively Institucion fide Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero as a unit.
At 1 March 2010, the Board comprises the HSBC.
Appointed a Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other Group General Manager in May 2008. executive Directors and 15 non-executive Directors.
The names and brief biographical particulars of the R C Picot Directors are listed on pages 294 to 299.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and four other Age 52.
Joined executive Directors are employees who carry out HSBC in 1993.
Appointed a Group General executive functions in HSBC in addition to their Manager in 2003. duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily business management of HSBC.
Non-executive Directors bring an external perspective, constructively challenge and help develop proposals 302 on strategy, scrutinise the performance of in Hong Kong under part IX of the Companies management in meeting agreed goals and objectives Ordinance on 17 January 1991. and monitor the reporting of performance.
The nonThe Board sets the strategy for the Group and executive Directors have a wealth of experience approves the risk appetite, capital and operating across a number of industries and business sectors, plans presented by management for the achievement including the leadership of large, complex of the strategic objectives it has set.
The roles of non-executive appetite, capital and operating plans ensure the Directors as members of Board committees are efficient disposition of HSBCs resources for the described on pages 310 to 313. achievement of these objectives.
Following Following the recommendations in the Walker consideration of all relevant factors, the Board Review, the Nomination Committee undertook a determined on 2 March 2009 that a 5 for 12 review of the time commitment of non-executive rights issue to raise approximately 12.5 billion Directors.
On the recommendation of the US$17.7 billion was in the best interests of HSBC Nomination Committee the Board has agreed that Holdings and its shareholders.
Shareholders the time commitment expected of non-executive approved the rights issue at a General Meeting held Directors should remain at not less than 24 days per on 19 March 2009.
The 5,060,239,065 new ordinary annum and that the total time commitment of nonshares were issued in April 2009. executive Directors appointed to the Group Audit The Board delegates the management and dayCommittee, Group Risk Committee and to-day running of HSBC to the Group Management Remuneration Committee and the senior Board but retains to itself approval of certain matters independent non-executive director would be not including operating plans, risk appetite and less than 30 days per annum.
The time commitment performance targets, procedures for monitoring and of each non-executive Director is set out in the control of operations, the authority or the delegation Directors letter of appointment, tailored to reflect of authority to approve credit, market risk limits, the individuals Committee appointments from time acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital to time.
expenditure or realisation or creation of a new The Board is responsible for managing the venture, specified senior appointments, and any business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may substantial change in balance sheet management exercise all of the powers of HSBC Holdings, policy.
subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to The Directors who served during the year were the Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board S A Catz, V H C Cheng, M K T Cheung appointed may exercise all the powers of the Company to 1 February 2009, J D Coombe, J L Durn, borrow money and to mortgage or charge all or any R A Fairhead, D J Flint, A A Flockhart, W K L Fung, part of the undertaking, property or assets present or M F Geoghegan, S K Green, S T Gulliver, future of HSBC Holdings and may also exercise any J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, of the powers conferred on it by the Companies Act Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, 2006 and or by shareholders.
The Board is able to S M Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian delegate and confer on certain Directors holding Williamson.
executive office any of its powers, authorities and discretions including the power to sub-delegate for The Board of Directors meets regularly and such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
In Directors receive information between meetings addition, the Board may establish any local or about the activities of committees and developments divisional boards or agencies for managing the in HSBCs business.
business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality Eight Board meetings were held during 2009. and delegate and confer on any local or divisional The annual schedule of Board meetings includes an board, manager or agent so appointed any of its offsite meeting over three days to consider strategic powers, authorities and discretions including the matters and business and geographical reviews power to sub-delegate for such time and on such proposals.
At least one Board meeting each year is terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also, by power held in a key strategic location outside the United of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or Kingdom, with an associated business awareness persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may programme.
During 2009, Board meetings and delegate to any such person or persons any of its business awareness programmes were held in the US powers, authorities and discretions including the and Hong Kong.
power to sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
HSBC Holdings was registered 303 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board The table that follows gives details of each without the Group Chairman to appraise the Group Directors attendance at meetings of the Board, Chairmans performance.
Group Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, In addition to the meetings of the principal Remuneration Committee and Corporate Committees referred to in the following pages, Sustainability Committee held whilst he or she was 19 other meetings of Committees of the Board not a Director or member during 2009.
During 2009, the shown in the table below were held during the year non-executive Directors and the Group Chairman to discharge business delegated by the Board.
met four times without the other executive Directors.
In addition, the non-executive Directors met once All those who were Directors at the time attended the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
2 Appointed as a member on 1 March 2009 eligible to attend 6 Committee Meetings.
Attended a further 2 meetings by invitation.
3 Appointed as a member on 24 April 2009 eligible to attend 3 Committee Meetings.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running of the The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Board and the executive responsibility for running Executive are separated and held by experienced HSBCs business.
The Group Chairmans full-time Directors.
responsibilities include, in addition to the leadership S K Green became Group Chairman at the of the Board, the development of relationships with conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2006 governments and other significant external parties, and M F Geoghegan succeeded S K Green as Group corporate reputation and culture and performance Chief Executive.
The appointments were made after management of the Group Chief Executive.
Subject consulting with representatives of major institutional to the Group Chief Executives recommendation, the investors and explaining the succession planning and Group Chairman approves risk, capital allocation independent external search process undertaken.
and capital investment decisions within authorities S K Green and M F Geoghegan stood for re-election delegated by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive at the 2006 Annual General Meeting and were both has responsibility for developing business plans and re-elected ahead of taking up their new roles from delivering performance against these.
the conclusion of that Meeting.
In September 2009, the Board announced changes to the respective roles of the Group Chairman 304 and Group Chief Executive, the relocation of the Board balance and independence of principal office of the Group Chief Executive to Hong Directors Kong and other senior executive management The Board includes a strong presence of both changes.
Under these arrangements M F Geoghegan executive and non-executive Directors such that no is located in the Groups strategically most important individual or small group can dominate the Boards region, with a focus on ensuring its growth potential decision making.
The size of the Board is is fully realised.
M F Geoghegan has assumed appropriate given the complexity and geographical responsibility for developing Group strategy in spread of HSBCs business and the significant time agreement with the Group Chairman and for demands placed on the non-executive Directors, recommendation to the Board.
As chairman of the particularly those who serve as members of Board Group Management Board, M F Geoghegan continues committees.
to drive performance within strategic goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
The Board appointed S M Robertson as the M F Geoghegan has also become chairman of The senior independent non-executive Director in 2007.
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation The principal role of the senior independent nonLimited.
executive Director is to support the Group Chairman in his role, to lead the non-executive Directors in the V H C Cheng continues to report to the Group oversight of the Group Chairman and to ensure there Chairman as an executive Director and will work is a clear division of responsibility between the to develop the Groups business in China while Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
continuing as chairman of HSBC Bank China Company Limited and HSBC Bank Taiwan The Board considers all of the non-executive Limited.
A A Flockhart has been appointed Chairman, Directors to be independent in character and Personal and Commercial Banking and Insurance judgement.
W K L Fung has served on the Board for reporting to the Group Chief Executive and is based more than nine years, however, and in that respect in Hong Kong.
In addition to responsibility for only, does not meet the usual criteria for Personal Financial Services and Commercial independence set out in the UK Combined Code on Banking business globally, A A Flockhart is corporate governance.
The Board has therefore responsible for Insurance and HSBCs businesses in determined S A Catz, M K T Cheung, J D Coombe, Latin America and Africa, the Groups technology, J L Durn, R A Fairhead, J W J Hughes-Hallett, services and operations and most Group functions W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, including Human Resources, Marketing and Legal.
G Morgan, N R N Murthy, S M Robertson, A A Flockhart will deputise within Asia-Pacific for J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson to be the Group Chief Executive when M F Geoghegan independent.
When determining independence the is absent from the region.
S T Gulliver has been Board considers that calculation of the length of appointed Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Global service of a non-executive Director begins on the Businesses reporting to the Group Chief Executive date of his or her first election by shareholders as a and is based in London.
S T Gulliver will continue to Director of HSBC Holdings.
Given the complexity manage Global Banking and Markets and Asset and geographical spread of HSBCs business, the Management and has assumed overall responsibility experience of previous service on a subsidiary for all HSBCs businesses across Europe, Middle company Board can be a considerable benefit to East and Global Businesses and for Global Private HSBC and does not detract from a Directors Banking.
S T Gulliver has become chairman of independence.
In reaching its determination of each HSBC Private Banking Suisse SA and HSBC Bank non-executive Directors independence the Board Middle East Limited.
D J Flint has assumed has concluded that there are no relationships or responsibility for Compliance in addition to his circumstances which are likely to affect a Directors existing remit for Finance and Risk.
D J Flints title judgement and any relationships or circumstances has changed to Chief Financial Officer, Executive which could appear to do so were considered not to Director, Risk and Regulation.
He reports to the be material.
Group Chief Executive and is based in London.
In accordance with the Rules Governing the During 2009 the Board endorsed S K Greens Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong appointment as a non-executive director of BASF SE.
Kong Limited, each non-executive Director As a full-time HSBC executive with no other external determined by the Board to be independent has non-executive appointments, the Board is satisfied that provided an annual confirmation of his or her S K Green will continue to commit appropriate time to independence to HSBC Holdings.
his role as Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings.
305 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Information, induction and ongoing A personalised approach to training and development development is applied for Directors.
Records of development activities and plans are maintained by The Board regularly reviews reports on progress the Group Company Secretary for annual review against financial objectives, on business with the Director concerned by the Group Chairman.
developments and on investor and external relations The Group Company Secretary coordinates the and receives reports from the chairmen of Board delivery of any training required.
Focused in-house committees and from the Group Chief Executive.
development programmes to enhance business The Board receives regular reports and presentations awareness, such as on the management of risk, are on strategy and developments in the customer groups arranged in conjunction with scheduled Board and principal geographical areas.
Since December 2009, Directors have also provided to the Board, the Group Audit online access to HSBCs internal training and Committee and the Group Management Board on development resources.
credit exposures and the loan portfolio, asset, liability and risk management, liquidity, litigation Non-executive Directors have an open invitation and compliance and reputational issues.
During to attend meetings of the Group Management Board 2009, the Board also reviewed the results of the 2009 to further enhance understanding and awareness of Global People Survey and approved proposals to HSBCs businesses and the senior leadership team.
The agenda and During 2009, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax and Sir supporting papers are distributed in advance of all Brian Williamson each attended a meeting of the Board and Committee meetings to allow time for Group Management Board.
appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely Performance evaluation access to all relevant information and may take In October 2009, Boardroom Review was independent professional advice if necessary.
commissioned to prepare a report on the The Directors have free and open contact with effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The management at all levels.
Group Managing Directors objective of the review was to assess the quality of and Group General Managers meet informally with the Boards decision making and debate, its overall Directors after Board meetings.
Board offsite visits contribution to, and impact on, the long-term health are made each year to enable Directors to see at first and success of HSBC Holdings, and its preparation hand the operations of subsidiary companies in local for future challenges.
The Boardroom Review environments and to meet management, employees assessment was used to facilitate the Boards and customers.
In 2009 the Board visited the US and evaluation of its performance and that of its Hong Kong.
Committees and individual Directors performance.
There are no conflicts of interest between HSBC and During 2009, the Board reviewed and approved Boardroom Review, which does not offer other changes to the arrangements for Director induction services such as executive search, corporate finance and development.
Full, formal and tailored induction or strategic advice.
programmes, with particular emphasis on internal controls, are arranged for newly appointed Directors The Boardroom Review report was prepared by the Group Company Secretary.
The programmes following structured interviews with each of the consist of a series of meetings with other Directors Directors and the Group Company Secretary and has and senior executives to enable new Directors to been discussed by the Board.
The factors assessed in receive information and familiarise themselves with the report that are associated with board HSBCs strategy, operations and internal controls.
As effectiveness include Board roles and part of the induction process the Group Company responsibilities, individual and collective Secretary will coordinate the production of a contribution, Board processes, Committee processes development programme based on the individual and roles, and the effectiveness of the Group Directors needs.
Prior to their appointment, each Chairman.
The report has been used by the Group Director receives comprehensive guidance on the Chairman in his evaluation of the performance of duties and liabilities of a Director of HSBC each Director and by the non-executive Directors, Holdings.
Opportunities to update and develop skills led by the senior independent non-executive Director and knowledge, through externally run seminars and in their evaluation of the performance of the Group through briefings by senior executives, are provided Chairman.
The review concluded that the Board and to all Directors.
its Committees were functioning effectively.
It is the intention of the Board of HSBC Holdings to continue to review its performance and that of its 306 Directors annually with external facilitation of the served in office for a continuous period of nine years process at least every third year.
The Group or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is Chairman has confirmed that all of the nonrequired to retire and may offer him or herself for reexecutive Directors continue to perform effectively election by shareholders.
and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
M K T Cheung was appointed a non-executive The Board has approved actions arising from Director on 1 February 2009. the performance evaluation for implementation.
J L Durn, R A Fairhead, W K L Fung, A quarterly status report will be used to monitor M F Geoghegan, S K Green, Sir Mark Moodyprogress.
During 2009 the Board received quarterly Stuart, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, S M Robertson, updates on the actions arising from the 2008 Board J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson will retire at performance evaluation, all of which have been the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
exception of J L Durn, W K L Fung and Sir Mark The Nomination Committee leads the process of Moody-Stuart, who are to retire, they offer identifying the skills and experience required by themselves for re-election.
At the conclusion of the Directors to address and challenge adequately key 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Board will then risks and decisions that confront, or may confront, comprise 18 Directors, 12 of whom are independent the Board.
The Nomination Committee regularly non-executive Directors.
None of the non-executive reviews the structure, size and composition Directors has a service contract.
M F Geoghegan and including the skills, knowledge and experience S K Green, who are seeking re-election at the Annual required of the Board and makes recommendations General Meeting, are employed on rolling contracts to the Board with regard to any changes.
The which require 12 months notice to be given by Nomination Committee maintains a forward-looking either party.
schedule of potential candidates as Directors that Brief biographical particulars of all Directors takes into account the needs and developments of the are given on pages 294 to 299.
Groups businesses and the anticipated retirement dates of existing Directors.
The Board is kept Relations with shareholders informed of shareholder views by regular updates about investor meetings with the executive The Board ensures all Directors, including nonDirectors, senior independent non-executive Director executive Directors, develop an understanding of the and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst presentations Appointment, retirement and re-election of and other meetings with institutional investors and Directors their representative bodies.
Directors also meet representatives of institutional shareholders each The Board may at any time appoint any person who year to discuss corporate governance matters.
is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total All executive Directors and other senior number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
executives hold regular meetings with institutional Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire investors and report to the Board on those meetings.
at the Annual General Meeting following his or her HSBC Holdings brokers, Goldman Sachs, give biappointment and shall be eligible for re-election but annual presentations to the Board on market views is not taken into account in determining the number and investor relations.
The Board receives a regular of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such Investor Relations activity report which provides meeting.
The Board may appoint any Director to feedback from institutional shareholders and brokers, hold any employment or executive office and may analysts forecasts, information from research reports revoke or terminate any such appointment.
and share price performance data.
Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a During 2009, S M Robertson, senior person as a Director or remove any Director before independent non-executive Director, Sir Mark the expiration of his period of office.
At each Annual Moody-Stuart and other non-executive Directors General Meeting, one third of the Directors who are met and corresponded with institutional investors subject to retirement by rotation are required to retire and their representatives to discuss strategy, and may offer themselves for re-election by remuneration policy and governance.
In addition to those required to retire by is also available to shareholders should they have rotation, any Director who was not elected or reconcerns which contact through the normal channels elected at either of the preceding two Annual General of Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief Meetings and any non-executive Director who has 307
