HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Challenges and uncertainties KPIs practices: and the conduct of companies with which Key performance indicators it is associated.
Failure to address these issues The Board of Directors and the Group Management appropriately may give rise to additional legal and Board monitor HSBCs progress against its strategic compliance risk to HSBC, with an increase in the objectives.
Progress is assessed by comparison with number of litigation claims and the amount of the Groups strategy, its operating plan targets and its damages asserted against HSBC, or subject HSBC to historical performance using both financial and regulatory enforcement actions, fines or penalties or non-financial measures.
As a prerequisite for the vesting of Performance Operational risks are inherent in HSBCs Shares, the Remuneration Committee must satisfy business itself that HSBC Holdings financial performance has shown a sustained improvement in the period HSBC is exposed to many types of operational risk, since the award date.
In determining this, the including fraudulent and other criminal activities Remuneration Committee will take account of all both internal and external, breakdowns in relevant factors but, in particular, will compare processes or procedures and systems failure or HSBCs financial key performance indicators non availability.
HSBC is also subject to the risk of KPIs with the equivalent measures within the disruption of its business arising from events that are total shareholder return TSR comparator group.
wholly or partially beyond its control for example natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics and Financial KPIs transport or utility failures which may give rise to losses in service to customers and or economic loss In assessing progress in delivering the Groups to HSBC.
All of these risks are also applicable where strategy and monitoring HSBCs performance, HSBC relies on outside suppliers or vendors to management reviews the financial KPIs described provide services to it and its customers.
These KPIs are complemented by a range of secondary benchmarks which are relevant to The reliability and security of HSBCs reviewing performance against plan and at the information and technology infrastructure and its business level.
customer databases are crucial to maintaining the service availability of banking applications and HSBC has published a number of key targets processes and to protecting the HSBC brand.
Critical against which performance is measured.
Financial system failure, any prolonged loss of service targets have been set as follows: a return on average availability or any material breach of data security, total shareholders equity over the medium term of particularly involving confidential customer data, between 15 per cent and 19 per cent: the cost could cause serious damage to the Groups ability to efficiency ratio to be between 48 per cent and 52 per service its clients, could breach regulations under cent: and HSBCs TSR to be in the top half of that which HSBC operates and could cause long-term achieved by the comparator group.
The cost damage to its business and brand.
efficiency ratio has been set as a range within which the business is expected to remain in order to HSBC is subject to tax-related risks in the accommodate both returns to stakeholders and the countries in which it operates, which could need for continued investment in support of future have an adverse effect on its operating business growth.
results In the light of market conditions and proposed HSBC is subject to the substance and interpretation changes to capital requirements currently being of tax laws in all countries in which it operates.
Tax considered by various governmental and regulatory risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or bodies, HSBC believes return on average total the interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk shareholders equity over the medium term is more of changes in tax rates and the risk of consequences likely to be around the lower end of the target range.
arising from failure to comply with procedures Once regulatory proposals are in definitive form required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax HSBC intends to publish a revised target range.
risks could lead to increased tax charges, including financial or operating penalties.
Over Over Over Return on average invested capital measures 1 year 3 years 5 years the return on the capital investment made in the Total shareholder return business, enabling management to benchmark HSBC HSBC TSR.................. 128.3 103.6 120.6 against competitors.
Benchmarks: FTSE 100............. 127.3 98.0 135.4 Return on average total shareholders equity MSCI World........ 116.7 103.6 134.9 measures the return on average shareholders MSCI Banks........ 125.2 70.6 92.3 investment in the business.
This enables management to benchmark Group performance Revenue growth provides an important guide against competitors and its own targets.
In 2009, the to the Groups success in generating business.
ratio was 5.1 per cent or 0.4 percentage points higher In 2009, total revenue declined by 19 per cent to than in 2008.
On an underlying basis, revenue grew by 8 per cent, reflecting the resilience of HSBC aims to deliver sustained dividend per HSBCs income generating capabilities in these share growth for its shareholders.
The total dividend difficult economic circumstances.
for 2009, based on the year to which the dividends relate rather than when they were paid, amounts to Revenue mix represents the relative distribution US$0.34 per ordinary share, a reduction of of revenue streams between net interest income, 47 per cent on 2008. net fee income and other revenue.
It is used to understand how changing economic factors affect Basic earnings per share EPS is a ratio that the Group, to highlight dependence on balance sheet shows the level of earnings generated per ordinary utilisation for income generation and to indicate share.
EPS is one of two KPIs used in rewarding success in cross-selling fee-based services to employees and is discussed in more detail in the customers with deposit and loan facilities.
This Directors Remuneration Report on page 334.
EPS understanding assists management in making for 2009 was US$0.34, a decline of 17 per cent on business investment decisions.
Cost efficiency is a relative measure that Total shareholder return is used as a method indicates the consumption of resources in generating of assessing the overall return to shareholders on revenue.
Management uses this to assess the success their investment in HSBC, and is defined as the of technology utilisation and, more generally, the growth in share value and declared dividend income productivity of the Groups distribution platforms during the relevant period.
TSR is a key performance and sales forces.
In calculating TSR, dividend income is assumed to be invested in Credit performance as measured by riskthe underlying shares.
The TSR benchmark is an adjusted margin is an important gauge for assessing index set at 100 and measured over one, three and whether credit is correctly priced so that the returns five years for the purpose of comparison with the available after recognising impairment charges meet performance of a group of competitor banks which the Groups required return parameters.
19 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued KPIs Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax reflect HSBCs range and breadth of activities.
As an overall score for each market on a 100-point the comparator group includes companies listed on scale, which is then benchmarked against HSBCs overseas markets, a common currency is used to main competitors.
The scores from each market are ensure that TSR is measured on a consistent basis.
then weighted according to the risk-adjusted The TSR levels at the end of 2009 were 128.3, 103.6 revenues in that market to obtain the overall Group and 120.6 over one, three and five years respectively.
HSBCs performance did not meet the target of In 2009, Personal Financial Services customers being in the top half of the comparator group over judged HSBCs brand to be 6 points stronger than its any of the required time periods.
competitors, up from 4 points in 2008 and above the Management believes that financial KPIs must target.
Business Banking customers also judged the remain relevant to the business so they may be brand to be 6 points higher than HSBCs changed over time to reflect changes in the Groups competitors, the same as in 2008. composition and the strategies employed.
Customer recommendation Non-financial KPIs Customer recommendation is an important driver of HSBC has chosen four non-financial KPIs which business growth for HSBC.
HSBC uses a consistent are important to the future success of the Group measure of customer recommendation around the in delivering its strategic objectives.
These world to continue to improve the services provided non-financial KPIs are reported within HSBC by the Group to customers of Personal Financial on a local basis.
This measurement is carried out by accredited independent third-party Employee engagement organisations and the resulting recommendation scores are benchmarked against competitors.
A Employee engagement is a measure of employees 100 point scale is used to measure the score.
emotional and rational attachment to HSBC.
It is critical to the long-term success of the Group and, as The 2009 customer recommendation score for such, an employee engagement target was included Personal Financial Services increased from 1 to 2 in the 2009 objectives for Group executives see compared with a target of 3.
Directors Remuneration Report, page 334. Business Banking customer recommendation In 2009, HSBC conducted the third Global was also 2 points ahead of HSBCs competitors but People Survey of its workforce worldwide.
The 2009 below the target of 4. participation rate of 91 per cent was one of the highest in the industry.
IT performance and systems reliability The Groups employee engagement score rose HSBC tracks two key measures as indicators of IT from 67 per cent in 2008 to 71 per cent in 2009.
In performance: namely, the number of customer achieving 71 per cent, HSBC exceeded its target for transactions processed and the reliability and 2009 of 69 per cent and the external global and resilience of systems measured in terms of service sector averages.
HSBC aspires to progressively availability targets.
improve its engagement score to best in class levels by 2011.
Number of customer transactions processed The 2009 survey covered 14 aspects.
Employees The number of customer transactions processed rated HSBC above the external global average across reflects the dependency on IT of the delivery all aspects.
channels that customers use to interact with HSBC.
Monitoring the volumes by channel enables the Brand perception Group to allocate resources appropriately.
Despite a fall in total volumes, the transition of customer In order to manage the HSBC brand most transactions from labour intensive channels effectively, the Group tracks brand health among branch call centre to automated channels credit Personal Financial Services and Business Banking card, internet, self-service and other e-channels customers in each of HSBCs major markets.
The following chart shows the survey is conducted on a consistent basis by 2005 to 2009 volumes per delivery channel: accredited independent third-party organisations.
A weighted scorecard of brand measures produces 20
