the Brookings Institution Board of Trustees.
A nonSecretary executive director of Ford Motor Company, Intel R G Barber Corporation, Inc. News Corporation, Inc. and China Unicom Hong Kong Limited.
Appointed a National Committee on United States-China Group General Manager in 2006.
Joined HSBC in Relations and a Trustee of Asia Society, China 1980.
Company Secretary of HSBC Holdings plc Institute, The China Foreign Affairs University, the since 1990.
Chairman of the Disclosure Committee.
Palm Beach Civic Association and the United World A member of the Listing Authority Advisory College of East Africa Trust.
A member of the Committee of the Financial Services Authority and Council on Foreign Relations, the China Securities of the Primary Markets Group of the London Stock Regulatory Commission International Advisory Exchange.
Corporation Secretary of The Hongkong Committee and China Reform Forum International and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited from Advisory Committee.
Former appointments include: 1986 to 1992 and Company Secretary of HSBC a non-executive director of Industrial and Bank plc from 1994 to 1996.
Commercial Bank of China Limited from 2005 until 2008: and President of the Goldman Sachs Group, Adviser to the Board Inc. from 1999 until 2003.
D J Shaw Mr Thornton brings to the Board experience that bridges developed and developing economies Age 63.
An Adviser to the Board since 1998. and the public and private sectors.
A former partner in Norton Rose.
A knowledge of financial services and education director of The Bank of Bermuda Limited and systems, particularly in Asia.
During his 23 year HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
An career with Goldman Sachs, he played a key role in independent non-executive director of Kowloon the firms global development and was chairman of Development Company Limited and Shui On Land Goldman Sachs Asia.
Sir Brian Williamson, CBE Group Managing Directors Age 65.
Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc.
Group Head of Human Resources.
A Group the Nomination Committee, having served as Managing Director since February 2008.
Joined chairman of the Committee until 26 February 2010.
Appointed a Group General Manager A director of NYSE Euronext and Climate Exchange in 2007.
Global Head of Human Resources for plc.
Former appointments include: chairman of Global Banking and Markets, Private Banking, London International Financial Futures and Options Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah Exchange and Gerrard Group plc: and a nonfrom 1996 to 2007. executive director of Resolution plc, the Financial Services Authority and the Court of The Bank of E Alonso Ireland.
Group Managing Director and Head of Sir Brian brings to the Board extensive HSBC Latin America and the Caribbean.
A Group experience in money and bond markets, private Managing Director since May 2008.
Joined HSBC in equity, futures, options and commodities trading 1997.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2006. internationally.
He established the London Chairman Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. and International Financial Futures and Options HSBC Mxico, S. A. Institucin fide Banca Mltiple, Exchange in the 1980s and led the Exchanges Grupo Financiero HSBC.
Deputy Chief Executive of development of its electronic trading platform in HSBC Investment Bank Brasil S. A. Banco fide the mid-1990s.
He is a member of the Guild of Investimento.
A director of HSBC Latin America International Bankers.
Holdings UK Limited, HSBC Argentina Holdings Non-executive Director S. A. and HSBC Bank Brasil S. A. Banco Mltiplo.
Independent non-executive Director Managing Director of HSBC Brasil Administradora fide Consorcio Ltda.
and HSBC Servios e Participaoes Ltda.
President of the Board of Directors of HSBC Bank Panam S. A.
