HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Senior management Board of Directors The Board A P Long C D Spooner Age 54.
Group General Manager, Head of Global Age 59.
Head of Group Financial Planning & Tax.
Appointed a Group General Appointed a Group General Manager in May 2008.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Age 42.
President and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A.
Joined HSBC in HSBC Bank China Company Limited.
Appointed a Group General Manager in May HSBC in 1989.
Appointed a Group General Manager 2008. in May 2008.
A M Mahoney Board of Directors Age 47.
Deputy Chief Executive Officer, The Board Continental Europe.
The objective of the management structures within Appointed a Group General Manager in 2006.
HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to M S McCombe deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer, Hong Kong.
Joined Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is HSBC in 1987.
Appointed a Group General Manager delegated to the Group Management Board under the in May 2008. leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
The developing framework for corporate C M Meares governance best practice and regulation in the Age 52.
Chief Executive Officer, Global Private financial services industry is actively considered by Banking.
The draft recommendations and HSBCs General Manager in 2006. response to the consultation on a Review of Corporate Governance in UK Banks and other K Newman Financial Industry Entities led by Sir David Walker the Walker Review were discussed by the Board Age 52.
Group General Manager and Director of in September 2009.
Following publication of the One HSBC.
Appointed a final recommendations in November 2009, the Group General Manager in 2006.
Board agreed actions to bring HSBCs practices into line with the reviews recommendations.
The K Patel principal changes were the establishment of a Age 61.
Group General Manager, Chief Executive separate Board Risk Committee with effect from Officer, Africa.
Appointed a 26 February 2010 and broadening of the terms of Group General Manager in 2000. reference of the Remuneration Committee.
HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of L J Pea-Kegel Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised Age 50.
Chief Executive, HSBC Mexico, S. A. in Board meetings where the Board acts collectively Institucion fide Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero as a unit.
At 1 March 2010, the Board comprises the HSBC.
Appointed a Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other Group General Manager in May 2008. executive Directors and 15 non-executive Directors.
The names and brief biographical particulars of the R C Picot Directors are listed on pages 294 to 299.
The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and four other Age 52.
Joined executive Directors are employees who carry out HSBC in 1993.
Appointed a Group General executive functions in HSBC in addition to their Manager in 2003. duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily business management of HSBC.
Non-executive Directors bring an external perspective, constructively challenge and help develop proposals 302
