HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil Background and disclosure policy Background and disclosure policy products.
HSBCs principal exposures to the US and Audited the UK mortgage markets take the form of credit risk from direct loans and advances to customers which As a result of the widespread deterioration in the were originated to be held to maturity or refinancing, markets for securitised and structured financial details of which are provided on page 218. assets and consequent disruption to the global financial system which began in mid-2007, the Financial instruments which were most affected markets for these assets have remained illiquid and by the market turmoil include those exposures to it has remained difficult to observe prices for direct lending which are held at fair value through structured credit risk, including senior tranches of profit or loss, or are classified as available for sale, such risk.
The ensuing constraint on the ability of which are also held at fair value.
Financial financial institutions to access wholesale markets to instruments included in these categories comprise fund such assets has put additional downward ABSs, including MBSs and CDOs, and exposures to pressure on asset prices.
As a consequence, since and contingent claims on monoline insurers 2007 many financial institutions have recorded monolines in respect of structured credit activities considerable reductions in the fair values of asset and leveraged finance transactions which were values, including their asset-backed securities originated to be distributed.
ABSs and leveraged structured transactions, most In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide significantly for sub-prime and Alt-A mortgagemeaningful disclosures that help investors backed securities MBSs and collateralised debt and other stakeholders understand the obligations CDOs referencing these securities.
Groups performance, financial position and A further constraint on liquidity within the changes thereto, the information provided in market for securitised assets emerged in 2009 as this section goes beyond the minimum rating agencies changed their rating methodologies levels required by accounting standards, in response to changed circumstances, precipitating statutory and regulatory requirements and widespread downgrades and the fear of further listing rules.
downgrades across all tranches of securitised paper.
This accentuated illiquidity, particularly for those HSBC has voluntarily adopted the draft British institutions subject to the Basel II framework, which Bankers Association Code on Financial Reporting ties capital requirements to external credit ratings Disclosure the draft BBA Code for its 2009 without reference to the actual level of expected loss Financial Statements.
This sets out five disclosure on the securities.
In light of these issues around principles together with supporting guidance.
The liquidity and the risk to capital from further writeprinciples are that UK banks will: downs, ratings changes and realised losses and impairments in 2009, many financial institutions provide high quality and meaningful disclosures took steps to reduce leveraged exposures, build their useful to decision-making: liquidity and raise additional capital.
review and enhance their financial instrument Volatility in financial markets, particularly in disclosures for key areas of interest: the first half of 2009, resulted in wider transaction assess the applicability and relevance of good spreads, although these narrowed during the second practice recommendations to their disclosures, half of the year.
Markets for securitised and acknowledging the importance of such structured financial assets continued to be severely guidance: constrained, and the primary market for all but US government-sponsored issues remained weak.
seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the UK banking Notwithstanding these developments, the severe sector: and deterioration in the fair value of assets supported by sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages experienced in 2008 clearly differentiate in their annual reports began to reverse in 2009 as buyers sought higher between information that is audited and yields in the low interest rate environment.
For information that is unaudited.
example, spreads tightened modestly on Alt-A assets In the context of facilitating an understanding and sub-prime assets as greater clarity of ultimate of the ongoing turmoil in markets for securitised and losses emerged.
structured assets and in line with the principles of the This section contains disclosures about the draft BBA Code, HSBC has continued to assess effect of the ongoing market turmoil on HSBCs good practice recommendations issued from time to securitisation exposures and other structured time by relevant regulators and standard setters.
