Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 AMERICAS Strong revenue and profit growth were the results of exchange rate benefits and an improved product mix, driven by the growth in the Global Drive Brands.
Mark Cobben Director, Americas In Americas, profit rose by 134 million In Chile, the contraction of the market led to 1,186 million, mainly attributable to a to lower volumes.
Although Lucky Strike and strong performance from Brazil, an improved Pall Mall both performed well, market share product mix and exchange rate benefits.
At was in line with last year.
Profit decreased as constant rates of exchange, profit would have a result of the lower volumes and higher costs, risen by 68 million or 6 per cent.
Volumes including the impact of foreign exchange on were down 6 per cent at 151 billion, with imported materials.
Profit increased in Peru decreases experienced in most markets across as a result of stable volumes and an improved the region, despite some market share gains.
Market share improved, driven by distribution expansion and strong growth In Brazil, strong profit growth was achieved by Lucky Strike and Pall Mall.
21% as a result of a substantial excise-led price increase, coupled with a better premium mix Market share in Venezuela was up strongly PERCENTAGE OF GROUP VOLUME and improved margins on the tobacco leaf as a result of the growth of Lucky Strike export business.
Higher prices led to lower and the refocusing of the brand portfolio.
industry volumes but share increased in the However, industry volumes declined sharply, legal market.
Dunhill is performing well after affected by significant price increases to offset 151 billion its migration from Carlton.
excise increases and high inflation.
Profit was significantly lower due to the impact of foreign Profit in Canada increased, benefiting from a VOLUMES exchange and lower volumes.
In Colombia, -6% strong currency and some reduction in illicit market share was lower than last year and trade partially offset by slightly lower volumes, industry volumes also declined.
Profit rose provincial tobacco tax increases and an as a result of lower costs.
Market share declined 3,156 million slightly due to down-trading but share grew in Profit grew strongly in the Central America the value-for-money and low-price segments.
and Caribbean area despite lower industry REVENUE volumes.
This was due to higher prices and an In Mexico, industry volumes were reduced by 10% improved product mix in key markets, as well the excise-driven price increase at the end of as exchange gains.
Montana performed well and Boots was with Pall Mall and Dunhill being the main successfully migrated to Pall Mall.
However, drivers for the growth.
The impact of the 1,186 million reduction in volumes and increased marketing investment was only partially offset by the PROFIT price increase and lower overheads, resulting 13% in a profit decline.
Profit in Argentina was in line with last year as the adverse exchange impacts on variable costs, other cost pressures and lower volumes, were offset by higher prices.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 45
