Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 MANAGEMENT BOARD The role of the Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. together with the executives shown on this page.
The Management Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy set by the Board of Directors, and for creating the conditions for their successful day-to-day operation.
Peter Taylor British Director, Western Europe Director, Africa and Middle East Group Operations Director Joined the Management Board as Director, Western Appointed Director, Africa and Middle East in January Joined British American Tobacco in 1980 and has Europe in October 2009.
He joined British American Tobacco 23 years worked in a variety of operational and general 2004 and became President of British American ago and has held a variety of senior marketing and management roles across the Group.
Jack became Managing general management roles in South America appointed Group Operations Director in 2003.
57 Director of the Companys publicly listed subsidiary including President of Souza Cruz and also in 10.
Neil Withington British company in Malaysia in 2007.
46 Central America, the Caribbean and Malaysia.
45 Group Legal and Security Director and General Counsel 2.
Rudi Kindts Belgian Appointed Group Legal and Security Director and Director, Americas Group Human Resources Director General Counsel of British American Tobacco in Joined British American Tobacco in 1993.
He has held Joined British American Tobacco in 1988.
He has 2000, having previously been the Groups Deputy a number of senior roles across the Group including held a number of senior human resources roles in General Counsel.
He joined the Group in 1993 General Manager in Switzerland, Argentina, Russia the Group and his responsibilities have covered after a career at the Bar and in the chemical and and Germany.
He has been a member of the Europe, Africa, the Middle East and central and pharmaceutical industries.
He has been a Director Management Board since October 2007.
He has been Group Human Resources of Reynolds American Inc. since July 2004.
John Daly Irish Director, Asia-Pacific 7.
Jean-Marc Lvy Swiss Joined the Management Board as Regional Group Marketing Director Director for Asia-Pacific in October 2004.
He held Appointed Group Marketing Director on 1 January a number of senior management roles for Rothmans 2010 after joining the Management Board as Director, International in Europe and the Far East before Western Europe in April 2008.
Jean-Marc began his becoming Area Director for the Middle East and career with the Kraft-Jacobs-Suchard Group, joining North Africa in 2001.
53 British American Tobacco in 1994 as Marketing Director in Switzerland and going on to hold a 4.
David Fell British variety of marketing and general management Director, Eastern Europe roles in Europe and South East Asia.
47 Appointed Director, Eastern Europe in May 2008.
He joined British American Tobacco in 1989 and 8.
Michael Prideaux British has held a variety of marketing positions in Europe Group Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director and South East Asia.
He was appointed President of Appointed Group Corporate and Regulatory Affairs British American Tobacco Japan in 2000 before being Director in 1998 following the demerger of B.
A. T made Area Director, BAT Australasia and Managing Industries.
A. T Industries in 1989 from Director, BAT Australia in 2004.
49 Charles Barker, a leading financial and corporate public relations, advertising and design agency, where he was Chief Executive.
59 Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 63
