Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 EASTERN EUROPE Global Drive Brands performed well despite lower industry volumes.
The weakening of many currencies impacted product cost and results in sterling.
David Fell Director, Eastern Europe Profit in the Eastern Europe region In Ukraine, Kent continued growing volumes decreased by 59 million to 409 million.
and overall share in a market where industry This was principally due to lower volumes volumes declined sharply.
Profit was higher and the adverse effect of exchange rates despite lower volumes and market share, rapid on transactional costs and on translation currency devaluations and excise increases.
At constant rates of exchange, Strong volumes and market share performances profit would have decreased by 35 million.
were achieved in the Caucasus through the Volumes at 131 billion were 4 per cent lower growth of Kent, Pall Mall and Viceroy.
In than last year, with decreases seen in Russia, Uzbekistan, profit increased significantly.
Ukraine and Romania due to industry declines as a result of lower consumption and an 18% increase in illicit trade, partially offset by a strong performance in Uzbekistan.
PERCENTAGE OF GROUP VOLUME In Russia, volumes were reduced by a decline in market size and competitor pricing.
Profit was down as a result of lower volumes, 131 billion down-trading and adverse exchange effects on costs, which more than offset the impact VOLUMES of higher prices.
Market share decreased, -4% although share grew in the premium segment with Dunhill and Kent performing well.
In Romania, an impressive performance by 1,628 million Kent and strong growth by Dunhill and Vogue resulted in a record corporate share.
Industry REVENUE volumes declined due to a number of excise 2% price rises and increased illicit trade.
Higher marketing investment, higher product costs, together with the reduction in volumes, led to lower profit.
409 million PROFIT -13% Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 47
