Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 PRODUCTIVITY ACHIEVE LEADERSHIP OF THE GLOBAL TOBACCO INDUSTRY GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY WINNING ORGANISATION Effectively and efficiently deploying our global resources to increase 239 million profits and generate funds to reinvest in our business.
SAVINGS IN SUPPLY CHAIN, We continually seek to increase the productivity of our business.
The savings OVERHEADS AND INDIRECT COSTS which are generated are a source of operating profit growth and revenue for reinvestment in the business.
Our focus is on smart cost management, marketing efficiency and capital effectiveness.
This includes reducing unnecessary complexity to save costs and using our cash and other assets more effectively.
Integrated global enterprise We are saving money by turning a multinational business operating in over 180 markets into an integrated global enterprise that can take better advantage of its scale.
Greater integration across our supply chain is helping us to reduce costs, increase speed to market and improve effectiveness.
We are also reducing our overheads and indirect costs anything other than leaf, wrapping materials, cigarette making machinery and labour.
An integrated, global supply chain main picture A farmer in Rio Grande do Sul state, Brazil, attends to tobacco leaf in a curing barn.
The raw materials used in our products are sourced globally and supplied to the Groups factories using the latest distribution methods and technologies, ensuring timely delivery and constant quality control.
Our factory footprint Manufacturing tobacco products is a large-scale global operation.
In 2009, our Group companies produced some 724 billion cigarettes through 50 cigarette factories in 41 countries.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 19 PRODUCTIVITY CONTINUED Productivity savings Taking advantage of this new model means Savings in supply chain, overheads and we have had to become more effective and indirect costs amounted to 239 million in efficient at above-market planning.
This is 2009 at constant rates of exchange.
We are crucial for ensuring we meet demand on firmly on track to achieve our 800 million time and in full, roll-out innovations more savings target by 2012. quickly and take better advantage of the benefits of scale.
Supply chain Most of the productivity improvements in Globally and regionally we continue to 2009 resulted from our continuous focus on achieve considerable savings by consolidating primary supply chain efficiencies.
These were purchases of materials and services, reducing largely as a result of further standardisation duplication and standardising data and of our processes and simplification of our processes.
The supply chain is increasingly Moving to an above-market planning model being managed above market, driving further is also enabling us to rationalise our machine efficiencies through smarter planning and technology by targeting capital expenditure resource allocation.
and establishing a more cost-effective We have reduced product costs every year operational base for the future.
In 2009, product costs Efficient production Global operations rose due to transactional foreign exchange The consolidation of manufacturing around In 2009, we started managing our Eastern costs and a significant increase in the price the Group means that more of our factories and Western European supply chains centrally.
are now serving a larger number of markets.
However, our productivity This delivered greater alignment of systems and improvements enabled us to mitigate this, processes and has improved global transparency meaning the overall increase in costs of key of supply and demand, facilitating more items, such as internationally traded tobacco productive investment and sourcing decisions.
leaf, were contained to less than half of what they would have been.
To further advance the development of our supply chain, we signed a Framework Since 2000, the number of cigarette factories Partnership Agreement with Cranfield within the Group has been reduced from University for collaborative research 83 to 50, including acquisitions.
Riga factory in Latvia and the Tokat factory in Turkey ceased production in 2008, while We continue to build a consumer-led, further factories were added with the acquisition customer-focused, high-performing, globallyof Bentoel in Indonesia and the beginning of integrated supply chain, dedicated to winning manufacture in Oran for the Algerian domestic in the markets where we operate.
In 2009, we announced the closure key aspect of the Groups strategy and we of our factory in Soeborg, Denmark, and will see more areas of our supply chain being the rationalisation of our Vranje factory in managed at a global level where it will deliver Serbia.
We also commenced the consultation greater benefits.
process for the downsizing of our factory in Overheads and indirects Pagewood, Australia.
The process of moving procurement aboveThe consolidation of factories around the market continued to allow us to streamline Group has been undertaken responsibly our processes and reduce overheads.
In 2009, and with care for affected employees and the geographic spread of Agrega our joint local communities.
It has removed much of venture with the brewer AB InBev was our previous excess capacity and means that expanded to include offices in London to more of our factories are now serving a larger cover Western Europe and to coordinate number of markets.
global activities, and in Moscow to cover Eastern Europe.
20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 STRATEGY IN ACTION STRENGTHENING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN GLOBAL LEAF POOL Our Global Leaf Pool GLP initiative, launched The GLP has enabled us to mitigate the at the end of 2007, has transformed British effects of a 30 per cent increase in the price American Tobaccos leaf supply chain business.
of internationally traded leaf and has helped It gives global visibility of stocks, provides to ensure that the overall increase in costs to assured supply and has delivered significant our business for blended tobacco leaf have financial benefits in the first two years.
The GLP controls the global movement of our In 2009, we focused on consolidating this new leaf supplies.
This logistical operation involves business model, enhancing the way it uses around 1,000 containers being at sea at any information technology, and fine tuning and given time, delivering stock from 52 ports to further improving its organisational structure.
British American Tobaccos factories worldwide, Today, the GLP is responsible for the demand along 4,500 possible transportation routes.
planning, procurement and deployment of all The initiative continues to improve our our internationally traded tobacco leaf and for ability to have the right quantity and quality agreeing our domestic crop requirements.
of tobacco in the right places to meet the growth requirements of our brands.
At the same time, the GLP has focused on efficiencies that have allowed us to reduce leaf stocks by the equivalent of three months supply, saving the business hundreds of millions of pounds in working capital.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 21 22 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
