Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of the Group for Share Issue the year to 31 March 2009.
At 31 March 2008, there were 250,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 Management Shares in issue.
The Management Shares carry Results and Distributions one vote each on a poll, do not carry any right to dividends and, The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The in winding-up, rank only for a return of the amount of the paid-up Company has declared two interim dividends, relating to the year capital on such shares after return of capital on Ordinary Shares ended 31 March 2009 as follows: and Nominal Shares.
The Management Shares are not redeemable and are accrued for and on behalf of a Guernsey 3.125p declared on 13 November 2008, to shareholders on charitable trust.
the register as at 30 November 2008, paid on 31 December 2008: and On 21 May 2008, the Company issued 103,600,000 C Shares of 0.01p as a result of the Companys C Share capital raising.
3.275p declared on 20 May 2009, to shareholders on the register as at 29 May 2009, to be paid at the end of June.
On 4 June 2008, as a result of the conversion of the C Shares, the Company issued 84,361,480 new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p At the Annual General Meeting on 28 July 2008, approval was in exchange for 103,600,000 C Shares.
given to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
This alternative was offered to shareholders for both of the interim dividends declared On 8 August 2008, there was a block listing application for for the year ending 31 March 2009.
Principal Activity and Status On 10 September 2008, the Company issued for cash 2,000,000 The Company is a Guernsey incorporated company and pursuant new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each in the Company to a single to the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987 institutional investor.
the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
As an authorised scheme, the Company is subject to As a result of the scrip dividend alternative announced on certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services 13 November 2008 the Company issued 327,253 new Ordinary Commission and during the year carried on business as an Shares of 0.01p each in the Company in lieu of the 3.125p dividend infrastructure investment company.
to those shareholders who had elected to receive the same.
A review of the business during the year is contained in the On 6 February 2009, the Company issued for cash 1,600,000 Chairmans Statement and the Investment Advisers Report.
new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p in the Company.
Changes in Company Law At 31 March 2009, there were 338,288,733 Ordinary Shares and On 1 July 2008, the Companies Guernsey Law, 1994 was 2 Management Shares in issue.
superseded by the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Directors Guernsey Regulatory Environment The Directors who held office during the year were: There have recently been a number of changes to the regulatory regime for Guernsey funds.
A number of provisions which were G Picken contained in the Control of Borrowing Bailiwick of Guernsey S Evans appointed 9 June 2008 Ordinance, 1959 to 2003 COBO which governed closedH Grisius ended funds have been consolidated into the Protection of J Hallam Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987, as amended the POI Law which governed open-ended funds and licensees None of the Directors had interests in the shares of the Company so that the POI Law now governs both open-ended and closedat 31 March 2009. ended funds as well as licensees.
Mr G Picken and Mr H Grisius are also Directors of HICL Closed-ended funds are now Category 1 controlled investments Infrastructure 1 Srl and HICL Infrastructure 2 Srl, wholly owned under the POI Law.
The changes have also codified in the POI subsidiaries undertakings of the Company.
Law a number of standard conditions and ongoing notification requirements imposed on the licensees of funds which were The appointment of Sarah Evans as director was carried out listed on the funds COBO consent, but were not explicitly set following a selection process involving a sub-committee of the out in COBO.
It is intended that the changes will simplify board consisting of John Hallam and Graham Picken.
Candidates Guernseys investment fund regime by categorising all funds were approached based on personal recommendation and whether open-ended or closed-ended as either registered relevant experience.
A recommendation was submitted to the schemes or authorised schemes.
full Board for final approval.
The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
32 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 Biographical details of each of the Directors are shown on page Brokers, Administrator & Company Secretary 31.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association a The Company appointed Collins Stewart Europe Limited as joint Director will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, and broker to the Company in November 2008, alongside Oriel John Hallam, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Our joint brokers are the same team that supported the Company in its C Share capital raising in May 2008.
During the year, the performance of the Board, committees and individual Directors was evaluated through an assessment In September 2008, the Company announced it had changed its process, led by the Chairman.
This process involved the administrator and company secretary to Dexion Capital completion of questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Guernsey Limited.
Company, and follow-up discussions between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was Substantial Interests in Share Capital evaluated by the other Directors.
In accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as at 27 May 2009, the Company had been notified that During the year the Directors were paid the following the following hold 3% or more of the Companys 338,288,733 emoluments in the form of fees: Ordinary Shares to which voting rights are attached.
Director Total Fees Number of Ordinary Percentage G Picken 31,036 Shares Held Held S Evans 14,582 Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 25,040,731 7.40% H Grisius 23,025 CCLA Investment J Hallam 26,029 Management Limited 18,151,617 5.37% The fees above include an additional 5,000 per director in respect of the Rensburg Sheppards Investment additional work in relation to the C share issue in May 2008.
Management Limited 21,087,642 6.23% After consulting and looking at comparables, the Directors Schroders PLC 18,338,087 5.42% have agreed to increase the fees for the coming year, having Credit Suisse Securities left them unchanged last year.
For the year to 31 March 2010, Europe Limited 12,179,615 3.60% the fees agreed will be 29,000 for the Chairman, 23,000 Legal & General Assurance for Mr J Hallam, 19,500 for Mrs S Evans and 19,500 for Pensions Management Mr H Grisius.
Limited PMC 13,438,012 3.97% There are no service contracts in existence between the Corporate Governance Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was As an authorised Collective Investment Scheme, the Company appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the main acknowledges the Corporate Governance Code as issued by the terms of his her appointment.
Guernsey Financial Services Commission in respect of Corporate Governance within the finance sector.
As a closed-ended Mr H Grisius is a partner of RSM Henri Grisius & Associs Srl, investment company registered in Guernsey, the Company is which is the third party administrator of the Companys two eligible for exemption from the requirements of the Combined Luxembourg subsidiaries.
Code the Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has however put in place a framework for corporate governance Investment Adviser and Operator which it believes is suitable for an investment company and HSBC Specialist Fund Management Limited the Investment which enables the Company to comply voluntarily with the main Adviser or HSFML is authorised and regulated by the requirements of the Code, which sets out principles of good Financial Services Authority, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of governance and a code of best practice.
HSBC Specialist Investments Limited HSIL, which itself is an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc.
Arrangements in respect of corporate governance have therefore been made by the Board, which it believes are appropriate for the HSFML acts as Investment Adviser to the Company and acts as Company.
Except as disclosed below, the Company complied Operator of the limited partnership which holds and manages the throughout the year with the provisions of the Code.
Since all the Groups investments.
A summary of the contract between the Directors are non-executive the provisions of the Code in respect Company, its group companies, and HSFML in respect of of Directors remuneration are not relevant to the Company services provided is set out in Note 23 to the accounts.
It is the except in so far as they relate to non-executive Directors.
Directors opinion, based on performance in the year, that the continuing appointment of HSFML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 33 Report of the Directors continued The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Mr Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost G Picken is Chairman.
Whilst Mr G Picken was previously effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the employed by HSBC Bank plc, all Directors are considered by the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Total fees paid Board to be independent of the Companys Investment Adviser amounted to 0.4m for the year ended 31 March 2009 of which and Operator, HSFML.
New Directors receive an induction from 0.1m related to the audit of the Group, 0.2m related to the audit the Investment Adviser and Secretary on joining the Board, and of the Groups project subsidiaries and other audit related all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
services, and 0.1m was in respect of audit and tax advisory work for project companies in which the Group has an investment.
In view of its non-executive nature and the requirement of the Articles of Association that the Directors retire by rotation, the Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company appointed for a specified term as recommended by Code and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to provision A.
7.2, nor for a Senior Independent Director to be the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
appointed as recommended by Code provision A.
3.3, nor for there to be a Nomination Committee as recommended by Code Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek provision A.
4.1. independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Investment Advisory agreement between the Company and its Investment Adviser sets out the matters over which the Internal Controls Investment Adviser has authority and the limits beyond which The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, including control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board is strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and therefore establishing an ongoing process designed to meet the corporate governance procedures, are reserved for the approval particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it of the Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least quarterly and is exposed.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to receives full information on the Groups investment performance, internal control through a matrix which identifies the key functions assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service Board meetings.
providers, the various activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The Committee meetings held during the year to 31 March 2009 and matrix is regularly updated and the Board is provided with regular the number of meetings attended by each Director.
reports highlighting all material changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, or is being taken.
A formal annual review Board of Directors Audit Committee of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee.
By their Scheduled Adhoc nature these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
1 1 G Picken 4 41614 n a n a 2 2 S Evans 3 39 711 At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups J Hallam 4 4 16 14 2 2 investment performance in comparison to its stated objective H Grisius 4 4 16 16 2 2 and it also reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser and the Operator 1.
G Picken is not a member of the Audit Committee but has been in attendance adhere to the agreed investment policy and approved 2.
S Evans was appointed on 9 June 2008 investment guidelines.
Throughout the year the Audit Committee has been in operation.
Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J Hallam, operates within the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of clearly defined terms of reference and comprises all the Directors compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of except for Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans was appointed to the the Company.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function the Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls, and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed by and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which the internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Groups auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound yearly.
The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys Committee which also reviews the terms under which the assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services and Group is therefore considered unnecessary.
the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
The 34 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 Going Concern Share repurchases The Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources No shares have been bought back in the year.
The latest authority to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and to purchase ordinary shares for cancellation was granted to the after due consideration believe it is appropriate to adopt the going Directors on 28 July 2008 and expires on the date of the next concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are proposing that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming Corporate Social Responsibility Annual General Meeting.
The Board is cogniscent of its corporate responsibility but given Treasury shares that the Groups business is concerned solely with the making and holding of investments, it believes it is sufficient and Section 315 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 allows appropriate to endorse the Investment Advisers approach to companies to hold shares acquired by market purchase as corporate sustainability, a summary of which is set out below.
treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may be held in treasury and may be Sustainability at HSBC is about the Groups long term approach subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This would to managing economic, social and environmental issues that are give the Company the ability to reissue shares quickly and cost within its influence.
First and foremost, this is about achieving efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and providing the sustainable profit growth so that HSBC can continue to reward Company with additional flexibility in the management of its shareholders and employees, build long lasting relationships with capital base.
customers and suppliers, and invest in the business and in the communities where the Group operates, for future growth.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value This is central to the Groups strategy and acknowledges that per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This should result in a HSBCs continuing financial success depends, in part, on its positive overall effect on shareholders if shares are bought back ability to identify and address non-financial considerations which at a discount and then sold at price at or above the net asset are material to the business, and to mitigate the risks and value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
maximise the opportunities arising from them.
In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will keep the Source: the HSBC Holdings plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Report matter of treasury shares under review.
com Relations with Shareholders The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment Adviser produces a quarterly factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, the Companys Joint Brokers, and the Companys Financial PR agency.
By way of assisting shareholders to understand our portfolio of investments, we held a second successful site visit to the helicopter simulators at RAF Benson in February 2009.
The presentation from this visit and an earlier visit to the MPA police training facilities are available from the Companys website.
In addition, members of the Board met some shareholders at a dinner held in London in September and a lunch in Edinburgh in October, arranged by the brokers.
