Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken Chairman Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006.
Graham Picken is an experienced banker and financial practitioner and has been Chairman of the Company since its launch.
Most recently a non executive director of the Derbyshire Building Society, he was appointed Chief Executive of the Derbyshire in February 2008 and led the society to a merger with Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, standing down at the end of March 2009.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman of First From left to right: Henri Grisius, Graham Picken, John Hallam and Sarah Evans Direct, a division of HSBC Bank plc.
Graham has no other listed company directorships Mr John Hallam Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006.
Mrs Sarah Evans Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008.
John lives in Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualified as an accountant Sarah Evans qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1979 and is a in 1971.
He is a former partner of  director of several other listed investment funds, as well as two having retired in 1999 after 27 years with the firm, both in unlisted funds of hedge funds.
She is a member of the Institute Guernsey and in other countries.
He is currently Chairman of of Directors.
Cazenove Absolute Equity Ltd, Partners Group Global Opportunities Ltd and Prodesse Investment Ltd as well as being Sarah spent over six years with the Barclays Bank PLC group a director of a number of other financial services companies, from 1994 to 2001.
During that time she was a treasury director some of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He and from 1996 to 1998 she was Finance Director of Barclays served for many years as a member of the Guernsey Financial Mercantile, where she was responsible for all aspects of financial Services Commission from which he retired in 2006, having been control and operational risk management.
Prior to joining its Chairman for the previous three years.
Barclays Sarah ran her own consultancy business advising financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
From 1982 to Other public company directorships listed in London unless 1988 Sarah was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of group noted otherwise : finance.
She is resident in Guernsey.
BH Global Limited Other public company directorships listed in London : Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited Dexion Absolute Limited Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Develica Deutschland Limited listed on AIM Japanese Leisure Hotels Limited listed on AIM NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed in Amsterdam Phaunos Timber Fund Limited New Star RBC Hedge 250 Index Exchange Traded Securities PCC Limited Mr Henri Grisius Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006.
Prodesse Investment Limited Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Limited Henri lives in Luxembourg and is the founder and managing Tapestry Investment Co PCC Limited partner of RSM Henri Grisius & Associs Srl, and is a director of a number of international investment companies.
He is a former partner of Ernst & Young and BDO in Luxembourg.
Before that he set up the investment funds department of Banque fide Luxembourg in Luxembourg.
He started his career with the Luxembourg Stock Exchange in 1969.
Henri has no other public company directorships.
