Christine Morin-Postel French Chairman Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in September 2009 and Appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer Appointed a Director in October 2007.
Christine is Chairman on 1 November 2009, having previously on 1 January 2008 having previously been Regional currently a Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch held the posts of Chief Executive at Irish Distillers and Director for Africa and Middle East and a member Shell PLC, EXOR S. p. A. Italy and 3i Group plc.
Co-Chief Executive at Pernod Ricard.
He is currently of the Management Board since March 2006.
He She previously held a number of executive positions a Non-Executive Director of Rentokil Initial and previously held senior general management roles in including Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Carlsberg.
He was Governor of the Bank of Ireland Brazil including President of Souza Cruz and also in Belgique, Executive Vice-President and member of from 2005 until 2009 and Chairman of the Scotch the UK and Hong Kong.
He was appointed a Director the Executive Committee of Suez and Chairman and Whisky Association 2006-2007.
He is Chairman of of Reynolds American Inc. in December 2008.
53 CEO of Crdisuez S. A. before her retirement.
Sir Nicholas Scheele British US Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in October 2007.
Karen Appointed a Director on 13 March 2009.
Gerry Appointed a Director in 2005 and Senior Independent retired as CEO Shell International Renewables and is a Senior Management Director partner at Director in May 2008.
He is Chairman of The President Shell Hydrogen in 2005.
She is currently The Blackstone Group having previously been Cambridge-MIT Institute and Key Safety Systems, a Non-Executive Director of Lonmin plc, Ensus Chief Executive Officer of Kingfisher plc, Carlton Inc. USA and a Director of Pegasus Holdings Group Holding Limited, E. ON AG, Pyry Oyj and Royal Communications plc, Exel plc formerly NFC plc and USA and Grupo Proeza Mexico.
She chairs the Corporate Social Greencore Group plc.
His previous non-executive Responsibility Committee.
63 appointments have included Reckitt Benckiser plc, 3.
Paul Adams British Abbey National plc, Novar plc and PJ Carroll plc, Chief Executive 7.
Robert Lerwill British an Irish subsidiary of British American Tobacco.
54 Appointed a Director in March 2001 and Non-Executive Director Chief Executive in January 2004.
He joined British Appointed a Director in 2005, he is Chairman 11.
Anthony Ruys Dutch American Tobacco in July 1991 and held senior of the Audit Committee.
He is a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director appointments as Regional Director, Asia-Pacific Director of Synergy Health PLC and was formerly A Director from March 2006, he is a member of and Regional Director, Europe prior to becoming a Director of Cable & Wireless plc, WPP Group PLC, the Supervisory Board of JANIVO Holdings BV NL Deputy Managing Director in June 2001 and The Anthony Nolan Trust and Chief Executive of and a Non-Executive Director of Lottomatica S. p. A.
In April 2009 he became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of NV Luchthaven Schiphol NL 4.
Dr Ana Maria Llopis Spanish and was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Finance Director Non-Executive Director Groups Indian associated undertaking, ITC Limited, Appointed a Director in March 2008 and Finance Appointed a Director in 2003.
She is Founder and in January 2009.
He chairs the Remuneration Director in April 2008.
Since joining British American Executive Chairman of Global ideas4all, Executive Committee.
62 Tobacco in 1989 he has held a number of senior Deputy Chairman of the J F Llopis Foundation and finance and general management roles particularly was a member of the Good Governance Working Board Committees in western Europe, south Asia and Russia.
He was Group for Spanish listed companies.
Ana Maria is Committee membership is indicated appointed to the Management Board in 2001 as also a Non-Executive Director of ABN AMRO Bank by the following symbols: Development Director and was Director, Europe and a Director of Service Point Solutions, S. A.
50 Spain, chairing its Remuneration and Nominations Audit Committee Committees.
59 Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 62 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance
