Investment Advisers Report Introduction Market The Groups revenue performance in the year from the portfolio Over the year new PFI PPP projects have continued to close of 28 investments has been good.
As advised in the January although at a slower rate as long-dated debt is scarcer than 2009 Interim Management Statement IMS, adverse previously.
In the secondary PFI PPP market there has gradually movements in the economic assumptions used to value the been an increase in the flow of investment opportunities as portfolio have caused a capital loss for the year.
vendors have redefined core assets and sought to make disposals to fide-leverage.
Assets which have been reviewed in detail have The Groups portfolio of 28 infrastructure investments has included PFI PPP assets in construction and in operations, performed in line with our forecast.
All the PFI PPP projects are regulated utilities and renewable energy projects, in the UK, now fully operational and delivering services under long-term Europe and in Australia.
availability-based concessions with public sector clients.
None of the equity stakes in the portfolio are in demand based The majority of acquisition opportunities we expect to continue infrastructure investments, where income can be affected by the to be in the UK as sponsors continue to sell down their interests level of usage e. g. toll roads or airports.
The Group is therefore in projects and portfolios.
In Europe, Canada and Australia, there not exposed to changes in consumer usage or spending.
is a growing pipeline of PFI PPP projects and those with PFI PPP characteristics such as wind farms and solar parks.
In the same There are no material service delivery matters to report on any of way as in the UK, the sponsors of these projects will want, in due the projects.
As previously reported, the Colchester Garrison PFI course, to sell their investments.
Project received the final land sale proceeds in December 2008.
No further capital contributions from third parties are outstanding In relation to demand based economic infrastructure such as toll on any projects.
roads, ports and airport, reductions in traffic volumes and hence revenues have been observed, due to higher oil prices followed Despite the global economic downturn and the volatile financial by the changing economic climate.
This, combined with limited markets, there remains strong investor interest for well-structured leverage acquisition finance, has been impacting valuations which infrastructure investments.
In the current environment we are are now lower than two years ago.
In due course, when beginning to see a number of suitable assets come to market as valuations stabilise and revenue forecasts for these asset types is owners of these assets either seek to realise cash or to generate more predictable, the Investment Adviser may consider seeking profit on disposal.
We continue to believe there will be suitable suitable, proven assets of this type to add to the portfolio.
new investment opportunities that meet the Investment Policy and can be acquired at prices which will be value accretive to Portfolio performance the portfolio.
All the projects are now fully operational, following the successful completion of Phase 2 of the Colchester Garrison PFI Strategy project in April 2008.
The Groups strategy is as previously outlined: to focus on both maximising value from the existing portfolio and to secure new The asset managers in the Investment Advisers team continue investment opportunities to enhance the portfolio.
to take an active role managing the projects to ensure value is preserved and enhanced.
They sit on each PFI PPP project For new investments, we continue currently to be selective companys board and play an active role in the management of concentrating on PFI PPP concessions and assets with the project.
Value enhancements are identified in performance comparable risk and return profiles see Chairmans statement plans for each project.
These plans cover incremental revenue for more detail.
opportunities, cost savings, treasury management, and financial efficiencies.
Efficiencies and savings will only be taken where The geographic focus for investment opportunities depends on they do not impact on either the services being provided or the the type of asset.
For PFI PPP projects, we are focused on those quality of the service level delivery.
countries that have a developed PFI PPP market with a pool of opportunities.
This currently includes UK, Europe, Canada where An example of an enhancement in the year was the replacement the programme is called P3, and Australia.
In the case of of the FM provider on the Bishop Auckland Hospital project, renewable energy projects, we are now seeing a number of following a tendering process.
This has both improved the operational projects in Europe.
forecast returns on the project as well as improving the projects risk profile.
Where savings are delivered to a project company, Ensuring service delivery to the required standards on all projects these benefits are reflected in the Directors valuation.
is an important element of the Groups strategy.
Our asset managers work with the project teams to maintain good client At our Clients request we have undertaken and are working on a relations to enable early identification of potential issues and to number of variations on our projects.
These range from changes to assist in their resolution.
the cleaning specifications on hospital projects, to reconfiguration of helicopter simulators, to increases in capacity on a police project.
These demonstrate a successful partnership with our public sector clients.
These and future variations provide opportunities to grow revenues and the returns from the portfolio.
14 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 In March 2008, a planned area of value enhancement was to PFI PPP projects optimise the debt repayments and reduce the overall cost of debt Concession & Debt Terms Remaining in these projects.
As a result of the state of the debt markets these have been put on hold and hence no longer feature in the 26 Directors valuation of the portfolio.
24 22 All the PFI PPP projects have long term financing in place, with 20 no refinancings required to meet their long-term business plans.
18 The average concession length is 24.1 years remaining and the 16 average debt term remaining is 22.3 years both weighted by 14 valuation for the 27 PFI PPP projects in the portfolio.
12 10 Counterparties 8 6 The Investment Adviser undertakes regular reviews of the 4 portfolios counter-party exposure.
All the PFI clients are public 2 sector bodies.
The projects have a broad range of supply chain 0 counterparties both operationally for facilities management Weighted Average Weighted Average Concession Length Debt Tenor services and financially for providers of bank deposit accounts and interest rate swaps.
The facilities management services are carried out by a range of experienced providers including Bouygues, Sodexo, Mitie and Interserve.
There have been no service issues to date that might indicate financial difficulties for any of our service providers.
The portfolio has a good spread of facility management suppliers providing services to our projects and there is no over-reliance on any one supplier.
Spread of Facilities Management contractors on the PFI PPP projects Analysis of the various FM providers, shown by aggregate valuation of PFI PPP projects involved in.
On some projects there is more than one service provider e. g. Dutch High Speed Rail where Royal BAM, Siemens and Fluor provide services: so that the sum of the bars is in excess of the Directors valuation.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 15 Years Relative exposure by portfolio valuation Atkins Balfour Beatty Carillion Ecovert FM Bouygues Fluor Honeywell Interserve ISS John Laing Medirest Mitie Reliance Rockwell Collins Royal BAM Serco Siemens Sodexo TQ Education Vega Investment Advisers Report continued Exposure to banks by deposit value Exposure to banks by project value As at 31 March 2009 As at 31 March 2009 Bank of Ireland Bank of Ireland Deutsche Bank Deutsche Bank Rabo Bank Commerzbank Commerzbank Rabo Bank Socit Gnrale Sumitomo Socit Gnrale Bank of Scotland Sumitomo RBS NatWest RBS NatWest Bank of Scotland HSBC HSBC Based on analysis by the Investment Adviser at 31 March 2009.
The Deposit Value chart looks at all deposits made by projects regardless of the Groups percentage holding at 31 March 2009.
The Project Value chart considers this exposure related to the Directors Valuation of the portfolio as at 31 March 2009.
The banks that provide bank accounts and swaps to the projects Each Project Company produces detailed concession life are predominantly from a range of corporate banks.
In aggregate financial models and the Investment Adviser will, inter alia, across the PFI PPP projects there was circa 250m on deposit as typically take the following into account in its review of such at March 2009.
The potential risk in relation to the interest rate models and make amendments where appropriate: swaps is further mitigated by the fact that the majority of these are net liabilities for the projects concerned, and therefore less due diligence findings where current e. g. a recent acquisition reliant on the counterparty.
outstanding subscription obligations or other cash flows which are contractually required or assumed in order to Valuation generate the returns The Investment Adviser is responsible for carrying out the fair project performance against milestones market valuation of the Groups investments which is presented opportunities for financial restructuring to the Directors for their approval and adoption.
The valuation is changes to the economic, legal, taxation or regulatory carried out on a six monthly basis as at 31 March and environment 30 September each year.
The Directors receive an independent third party report and opinion on these valuations.
claims or other disputes or contractual uncertainties changes to revenue, cost and economic assumptions.
For non-market traded investments, the valuation principles used are based on a discounted cash flow methodology, and adjusted Discount rates used for valuing each investment are based on in accordance with the European Venture Capital Associations the appropriate risk free rate derived from the relevant valuation guidelines where appropriate to comply with IAS 39, government bond or gilt and a risk premium.
The risk premium given the special nature of infrastructure investments.
Where an takes into account risks associated with the financing of a project investment is traded, a market quote is used.
such as project risks e. g. liquidity, currency risks, market appetite and any risks to project earnings e. g. predictability and This is the same method used at the time of launch and each covenant of the concession income, all of which may be subsequent six month reporting period.
The Directors valuation of the portfolio as at 31 March 2009 is The Investment Adviser uses its judgment in arriving at the 445.7m.
This portfolio valuation compares to 437.9m as at appropriate discount rate.
This is based on its knowledge of the 31 March 2008 up 1.8% and 250.4m at the time of launch a market, taking into account intelligence gained from its bidding reconciliation between the valuation at 31 March 2008 and that activities, discussions with financial advisers in the appropriate shown in the financial statements is given in Note 1 to the market and publicly available information on relevant transactions.
unaudited proforma financial statements, the principal difference relating to 20.5m of unfunded loan stock commitments that The current economic climate is impacting the Groups valuation were invested in April 2008. of the portfolio, and in particular, the rapid decline in the annual UK Retail Price Index RPI from 5.0% in September 2008 to Fair value for each investment is derived from the present value -0.4% in March 2009.
Since PFI PPP projects tend to have cash of the investments expected future cash flows, using on deposit, the decline in UK bank base rates, from 5.0% in reasonable assumptions and forecasts and an appropriate March 2008 to 0.5% currently, has also impacted the valuation.
The Investment Adviser exercises its judgment in assessing the expected future cash flows from each investment.
16 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 The Company has updated the illustration of the future cash flows from the portfolio to be received by the Group and this is set out below this is not a profit forecast, there can be no assurance that these receipts will be achieved.
1 Illustration of expected future cash flows 2 Portfolio valuation of the portfolio at any time is a function 3 of the present value of the expected future cash flows 140.0 500 450 120.0 400 100.0 350 300 80.0 250 60.0 200 150 40.0 100 20.0 50 0 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 Subdebt interest Subdebt principal Dividends NPV Note: 1 The illustration represents a target only and is not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurance that this target will be met.
2 Portfolio valuation assumes a Euro to Sterling exchange rate of 0.93 and a weighted average discount rate of 8.3 per cent per annum.
These assumptions and the valuation of the current portfolio may vary over time.
3 The valuation is of the current portfolio for 28 investments and does not include other assets or liabilities of the Group, and assumes that during the period illustrated above i no new investments are purchased, ii no existing investments are sold, and iii the Group suffers no material liability to withholding taxes, or taxation on income or gains.
The spike in 2013 is the expected repayment of principal on the Kemble Water Junior Loan.
Valuation movements in year from March 2008 to March 2009 470.0m 31.5m 30.7m 440.0m 48.3m 19.8m 31.2m 30.7m 410.0m 445.7m 19.8m 437.9m 11.3m 380.0m 350.0m 31 Mar 08 Investments Cash Change in Economic FOREX Return 31 Mar 09 Distributions discount rate assumptions movement HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 17 Project distributions m Portfolio value m Investment Advisers Report continued The growth in the Directors Valuation over the last 12 months is from 437.9m to 445.7m, the components of which are tabled below.
Valuation movement during the year to 31 March 2009 m Valuation at 31 March 2008 437.9 Investments 30.7 Cash receipts 31.5 Change in discount rate 31.2 Changes in economic forecasts 19.8 Forex movement on Dutch High Speed Rail Link 11.3 Return 48.3 Valuation at 31 March 2009 445.7 As advised in the January IMS, the valuation has been affected by adverse movements in economic assumptions the valuation discount rate, short term inflation and deposit rate assumptions.
These adverse movements have been significantly off-set by a strong project performance from improved operational and financial efficiencies evidenced by returns of 48.3m.
Discount rates The discount rates used for valuing the projects in the portfolio are as follows: Whole portfolio Excluding Kemble Water Junior Loan Period ending Range Weighted average Range Weighted average 31 March 2009 7.8% to 22.4% 8.3% 7.8% to 8.6% 8.1% 30 September 2008 7.6% to 10.8% 7.9% 7.6% to 8.3% 7.9% 31 March 2008 7.0% to 12.0% 7.5% 7.0% to 7.8% 7.4% The average discount rate used for the valuation of the PFI projects has increased to 8.1% at 31 March 2009 from 7.4% at 31 March 2008.
This increase has arisen from an increase in the risk premium of 1.0% to 4.0% over the year, partly off-set by a decrease in the long-dated risk-free rate of 0.3% to 4.1% derived from the average of the 20 and 30 year gilt rates.
The increase in the risk free rate is a judgment of the Investment Adviser based upon anecdotal evidence from secondary market bidding, feedback from financial advisers and pricing of new primary PFI projects.
Discount Rate Sensitivity 520m 480m 445.7 440m 400m 360m -1.0% -0.5% Base Case 0.5% 1.0% 8.1% Discount Rate Movement 18 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 Valuation Inflation indexation Deposit rates The PFI projects in the portfolio have contractual income streams Each PFI project in the portfolio has cash held in bank deposits, with public sector clients, which are rebased every year for and this is a function of their financing structure.
In the first half inflation.
UK projects tend to use either RPI Retail Price Index or of the year, short-term deposit rates of 5% per annum were RPIx RPI excluding mortgage payments, and revenues are available and this was also the long-term assumption used to either partially or totally indexed depending on the contract and value the portfolio at 30 September 2008. the nature of the projects financing.
As at 31 March 2009 the UK base rate was 0.5% and cash Facilities management sub-contracts have similar indexation deposits in the portfolio were earning interest at rates in the range arrangements.
In the light of the significant decline in current of 0%-2% per annum.
Therefore, for the valuation, a deposit rate inflation rates, the valuation has assumed a UK inflation rate of of 1.0% per annum rates has been assumed for the next two zero for the next two years, returning to 2.75% per annum years, followed by a rate of 4.5% per annum thereafter.
In arriving at these rates, consideration has been compares to 5.0% per annum deposit rate assumed in the 31 given to current short term economic forecasts and the long term March 2008 valuation for both short and long term deposit rates.
Bank of England targets for inflation.
In relation to the valuation, this profile of inflation indexation is broadly equivalent to an Deposit Rates Sensitivity average 2.5% per annum inflation assumption for short and long term inflation.
In the 31 March 2008 valuation, an inflation rate of 520m 2.75% per annum was assumed for the valuation.
The proceeds of the C Share issue were used to reduce the Groups debt.
As at 31 March 2009, the Group had 131.3m of undrawn debt capacity available to fund further acquisitions in line with the Companys stated strategy.
The strategy is to use the Groups debt facilities to fund new acquisitions, to provide letters of credit for future subscription obligations, and to provide a prudent level of debt for the portfolio to improve the operational gearing.
Further capital raisings will be considered either when a sufficient number of new assets have been acquired or when a large strategic acquisition is secured, to free up resources for further acquisitions.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 19 Valuation Valuation
