Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 GROWTH ACHIEVE LEADERSHIP OF THE GLOBAL TOBACCO INDUSTRY GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY WINNING ORGANISATION Increasing our volume and value share of the global tobacco 14,208 million market through organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
REVENUE Organic growth comes from increasing our revenue from our existing business.
To achieve organic growth, we focus on key market segments that offer the best long-term prospects, including premium and international brands.
We also aim to optimise the performance of our Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall and seek opportunities for profitable volume growth in the value-for-money and low-price segments.
We see innovative products that offer consumers meaningful, value-added differentiation as key to organic growth.
Strategically important and financially attractive mergers and acquisitions can provide us with further growth opportunities.
Sustainable growth In 2009, Group volumes from subsidiaries were 724 billion, up 1 per cent, mainly as a result of the acquisitions made in 2008.
With our strong brand portfolio and an overall brand mix that is broadly balanced between premium, mid-price and low-price, combined with our wide geographic spread, we continue to be very well placed to deliver sustainable growth.
Building retailer relationships main picture A British American Tobacco Russia trade representative confirms an order with an independent retailer in Moscow.
We work closely with our retail partners to ensure that at all times they can offer the products our consumers want to buy, at the right price and quantity, and with the quality they expect.
Public place smoking We support sensible restrictions on smoking in indoor public places and are committed to working with governments and the hospitality industry to provide practical, comfortable solutions for non-smokers and smokers.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 13 GROWTH CONTINUED Strategic segment volume in 40 key markets Our approach to marketing raise awareness of how our updated Standards Our business is about offering adult consumers cover technological developments, such as BILLIONS 2008 high quality brands that they will choose electronic and interactive displays in shops.
It is not about 177 Full adherence to our International Marketing ASU30 boosting the number of smokers, increasing 176 Standards was achieved in all but 12 companies.
the amount they smoke or targeting those 273 A total of 15 instances of non-adherence were Lights who are underage.
Action plans were 187 Our International Marketing Standards detail already in place by the end of 2009, with the Premium 184 our commitment to marketing appropriately aim to achieve full adherence in 2010.
25 and only to adult consumers.
The Standards Menthol We are committed to bringing our recently 26 apply to our companies globally and govern acquired business in Indonesia into line with Based on data from the 40 key markets, our share our tobacco marketing across all areas, our global practices.
However, our plans in each segment in 2009 was ASU30 24%, including print, billboards, electronic media, Lights 25%, Premium 27% and Menthol to introduce our International Marketing promotional events and sponsorship.
These figures exclude acquisition volumes.
Standards have been overtaken by proposed A review of adherence to these Standards regulations from the Ministry of Health.
was conducted by all Group companies in Global Drive Brand volume growth The market in 2009 2008.
Although the assessment reported an 2009 has been a difficult year for fast moving BILLIONS overall adherence rate of 97 per cent, it also consumer goods in general and tobacco identified some areas where we were not yet products did not escape the challenge.
These were principally The global economic recession has affected 06 146 related to inconsistencies in interpretation of the market to varying degrees in different 07 161 the Standards at a local level.
Total market volume declined 08 187 During 2009, we focused on action plans by around 2 per cent in our key markets, with 09 195 to address these issues and progress was consumer down-trading moving some of this Since 2005, our four GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky monitored by our regional audit and corporate volume into illicit trade.
Strike and Pall Mall have increased combined volume by 56%.
social responsibility CSR committees, with Despite this, our overall performance has held updates reported to our Board CSR Committee.
We continued to invest in marketing Actions taken have included issuing guidance programmes and innovation throughout the to clarify the sanctions that can be applied to year.
As a result, our overall volume share in retailers found to have sold tobacco products key markets was virtually unchanged.
Our to those who are underage and training to Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall have grown by a combined 4 per cent in volume and have gained market share, helped by continued organic volume growth.
Our portfolio has proved resilient in difficult times and, as consumers come out of recession, we are in an excellent position.
Balanced and innovative brand portfolio Our GDBs cover the premium and valuefor-money VFM segments and are at the forefront of our successful innovations, product refinements and our trade marketing strategy.
They account for 27 per cent of the global volume sales of our total portfolio and our overall brand mix is broadly balanced between premium, mid-price and low-price.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 In geographic terms, our brand contributions Innovation continues to fuel growth.
Reloc, Other International Brands volume growth are evenly split between developed and the resealable pack exclusive to Dunhill, was BILLIONS developing markets, although some 74 per cent launched in most core markets, driving gains of our volume comes from developing markets.
Fine Cut grew by 30 per cent, 05 127 proving particularly popular with consumers 06 134 Our continued focus on strengthening our in Russia, Romania, Hungary and South Korea.
07 141 GDBs is complemented by our investments 08 143 in local and regional brands where they play a The brand migration from Carlton to Dunhill 09 147 strategic role in a particular market.
This gives in Brazil is proving very successful and has Since 2005, other International Brands excluding us the flexibility to respond appropriately to been well received by consumers.
The brand the four GDBs have risen by 16%.
was further strengthened with the launch of the Nanocut range, a new offering that serves We are confident that the balance of our as a contemporary expression of Dunhills brand portfolio across price segments and heritage and expertise.
geographies will continue to allow us to build strong consumer loyalty through uncertain Kent economic times.
61 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 -4% volume decline Global Drive Brands continue to grow Our largest premium brand performed well in 195 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 the majority of key markets, increasing volume 4% volume growth and improving both market share and brand Our GDBs grew by 4 per cent, or 8 billion image.
Volume growth in the Africa and cigarettes, in 2009.
This rise is due 60 per cent Middle East region was particularly strong.
to brand migrations and 40 per cent to However, the economic downturn in Japan continued organic growth.
This strong and Eastern Europe resulted in an overall performance has enabled us to grow both decline in volumes as consumers spending share and volume within the premium power was squeezed in these markets.
segment, where volumes have been under pressure.
Kents leading role in innovation continues to deliver positive results, with Nanotek We saw some consumer down-trading growing by 24 per cent in 2009 and the with premium volumes declining 2 per cent, new Surround product quickly establishing while both VFM and low-price segments each share in Russia.
Kent HD was also launched grew by 3 per cent.
Total Group volumes in several major markets with encouraging increased to 724 billion, up 1 per cent as sales results.
Lucky Strike Dunhill 26 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 41 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 4% volume growth 9% volume growth Lucky Strike delivered another year of Dunhill enjoyed consistent growth throughout solid growth, with major volume growth 2009 with a strong financial performance.
in France, Italy, Chile and Syria.
Market share Market share increased in both established grew, or was maintained, in nine out of the and new markets, indicating the growing top 10 markets.
relevance of the brand to consumers.
Dunhills growth in the Americas and the Middle East The brand is particularly successful among broadened its brand footprint across the world.
Adult smokers under 30, and this segment accounts for more than 60 per cent of its consumers.
We focus on these consumers by delivering packaging options and taste experiences that they value.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 15 GROWTH CONTINUED Pall Mall Customer management 68 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 We take pride in the fact that our customers 10% volume growth rate us for the most part as a preferred Pall Mall continued its strong performance business partner.
We regularly survey our of the past few years, with significant volume international customer base to benchmark growth in Europe and the Americas, as well as our performance against our peer group market share increases across its key markets, within the FMCG industry overall and against including Germany, Uzbekistan, Mexico, our competitors in the tobacco category in Chile, Spain and Turkey.
The results continue to place British American Tobacco as the best overall supplier The brand was enhanced by several in both.
new offerings in 2009: Nanokings is our slimmer king size range in Eastern Europe: a For the third successive year in 2009, we were Pocket Edition slim variant was launched in recognised in the Dow Jones Sustainability Germany, Mexico and the Netherlands: and Index as the leading business in the tobacco there was a stronger mix of value-for-money category for Customer Relationship offerings across Western Europe.
these has contributed to significant growth.
Key marketing channels Consumer perception of Pall Mall has We make a special effort to understand and Preferred business partner strengthened globally as a result of develop joint marketing programmes with We regularly survey our international customer improvements to the brands king size our retail partners, who engage with our base to benchmark our performance against our peers and the results continue to place us as the packaging and communications.
Along consumers in key market channels such as best overall supplier in the tobacco category.
with further successful migrations from Global Travel Retail and Global Convenience smaller, local value-for-money brands, Retail.
With their enormous spread and reach, we continue to increase the profitability these strategic customers acknowledge British of Pall Mall.
American Tobacco as a partner of choice and, during 2009, we received several accolades Other International Brands from the trade organisations operating in 147 billion cigarettes sold in 2009 these marketing channels.
3% volume growth As well as our GDBs, we also support our Direct store sales other International Brands, accounting for Where appropriate, we believe that direct to some 20 per cent of our volumes in 2009. store sales, or DSS, is the most effective way Several of these brands saw good volume of serving customers and building sustainable growth in the year, particularly Kool in Japan: business partnerships.
DSS gives us visibility State Express 555 in Asia-Pacific Global Travel and control over the sales and distribution Retail: Rothmans in Egypt: and John Player process and allows us greater access to both Gold Leaf in Pakistan, Bangladesh and the the market and consumer information.
It also Gulf Cooperation Council countries.
provides a direct commercial link to our most strategic retail accounts.
Trade marketing and distribution Managing business-to-business relationships During 2009, the proportion of our total with retailers makes up a large part of our volume distributed through DSS reached trade marketing activities.
We work with our 50 per cent for the first time.
retail partners to ensure that at all times they can offer the products our consumers want to buy, where they want to buy them, when they want to buy them, at the right price and quantity, and with the quality they expect.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 STRATEGY IN ACTION NEW PRODUCT LAUNCH KENT HD Kent HD is the product of significant investment The global roll-out of Kent HD will continue by British American Tobacco in the Kent brand.
in 2010 with a number of launches that we Inspired by the superior quality standards seen expect will make it another successful year.
in high definition technologies, this evolution of the brand range delivers the smooth, signature Kent taste using a new and unique taste transmission system.
Already available in 25 markets by the end of 2009, Kent HD has had an encouraging start and is performing solidly in a very challenging economic environment.
Despite evidence of a decline in premium sales in 2009, Kent HD succeeded in stabilising king size volume sales in most of Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia and Romania.
The launch of Kent HD built upon the previous successes of innovative Kent products such as Nanotek, reinforcing the brands reputation as the leader in product technology and taste innovation.
Our research also shows that Kent HDs forward-looking style appeals to consumers, improving the modern, innovative and dynamic perception of the brand range.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 17 18 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
