AFRICA AND MIDDLE EAST Outstanding performances by many markets, complemented by the full year benefit of the Tekel acquisition, resulted in impressive growth.
Andrew Gray Director, Africa and Middle East Profit from the Africa and Middle East In Egypt, there was significant volume and region grew by 211 million to 724 million.
market share growth, supported by an At constant rates of exchange, profit would expansion in distribution.
have increased by 146 million or 28 per cent, In Turkey, the Tekel business acquired in 2008 mainly driven by South Africa, Nigeria, the was successfully integrated.
Kent, Pall Mall GCC and the benefit of the acquisition of and Viceroy all performed extremely well, Tekel during 2008.
Volumes were 11 per cent although total market share was lower as a higher at 127 billion, following increases in result of a decline in the Tekel local brands.
Turkey, the GCC, Nigeria and Egypt, which The financial performance remains in line with were partly offset by declines in South Africa our expectations at the time of the acquisition.
18% In South Africa, the overall market contracted PERCENTAGE OF GROUP VOLUME and with a reduction in trade inventories and down-trading to illicit trade, volumes were much lower.
However, market share increased, with Peter Stuyvesant showing strong growth, 127 billion whilst Dunhill and Kent performed well, assisted by the migration of Courtleigh Gold VOLUMES Band to Dunhill.
Profit was up, benefiting 11% from price increases and lower costs.
Profit in Nigeria increased significantly due to higher volumes and lower costs, partially 2,270 million offset by a weaker local currency.
Volumes and market share grew well.
The market REVENUE benefited from anti-illicit trade initiatives 31% by the government.
Volumes in the Middle East increased strongly.
Dunhill achieved excellent growth in the GCC whilst sales of Kent and Lucky Strike improved 724 million markedly in the Levant.
This led to growth in market share across the area and profit PROFIT rose as a result of higher prices and volumes, 41% improved product mix and lower costs, coupled with the favourable exchange rate.
48 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
