ASIA-PACIFIC The strength of the region is reflected by the strong volume, revenue and profit growth.
John Daly Director, Asia-Pacific In Asia-Pacific, profit at 1,148 million In Japan, strong profit growth was achieved was up 224 million, mainly as a result predominantly through favourable exchange of favourable exchange rates, backed by rates, productivity savings and a better product strong performances in Australia, Pakistan, mix.
Volumes suffered as a result of significant Bangladesh, Taiwan and Vietnam, as well as industry decline.
The premium-priced brand the contribution resulting from the acquisition Kool grew share, although overall market of Bentoel mid-year.
Bentoels performance share was slightly lower.
was in line with expectations.
At constant In Vietnam, higher volumes, supported by a rates of exchange, profit would have increased combination of price increases, productivity by 91 million or 10 per cent.
Volumes at initiatives and favourable exchange rates, led 185 billion were 3 per cent higher as increases 26% to strong profit growth.
Whilst market share in Bangladesh, Vietnam and South Korea, and was down slightly, Dunhill performed well.
the additional volumes from Bentoel, were PERCENTAGE OF GROUP VOLUME partially offset by lower volumes in Japan, Volumes and market share in South Korea Malaysia and Taiwan.
grew due to a good performance from Dunhill.
Profit decreased as a weaker exchange rate Strong profit growth in Australia was 185 billion had an adverse transactional impact, leading attributable to higher pricing and continued to higher material costs.
In Taiwan, profit cost saving initiatives.
Volumes were in line improved due to excise-led price increases, VOLUMES with last year while market share was slightly 3% cost savings and the favourable exchange lower despite the growth experienced by Pall rate.
Market share increased in a substantially Mall and Winfield.
In New Zealand, volumes contracted market.
and market share were down as competitor discounting intensified, although Pall Mall Market share in Pakistan continued to grow 3,270 million performed well.
Profit was up due to price and despite lower volumes, excise-led price increases, lower costs and a stronger increases resulted in a strong growth in profit.
In Bangladesh, profit was significantly higher 20% due to increased volumes, improved sales In Malaysia, Kents market share grew after mix, lower costs and favourable exchange its relaunch in 2008 and Dunhill achieved a rates.
Market share was slightly lower due record share.
However, volumes were down to the substantial growth in the low-price 1,148 million due to steep excise increases over the last two segment of the market.
In Sri Lanka, profit years and legal industry volume decreases as was up strongly benefiting from price PROFIT a result of the growth of illicit trade.
Profit increases, a better sales mix and productivity 24% rose as a result of a favourable exchange rate, improvements.
Volumes were adversely higher pricing and cost management, partially affected by the excise-led price increases, offset by the lower volumes.
although Dunhill and Pall Mall increased share.
44 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
