Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 RESPONSIBILITY ACHIEVE LEADERSHIP OF THE GLOBAL TOBACCO INDUSTRY GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY WINNING ORGANISATION Balancing our commercial objectives with the expectations of 112 million a broad range of stakeholders to ensure a sustainable business.
OUR RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Because our products pose real risks to health, we strongly believe that our EXPENDITURE IN 2009 business must demonstrate responsibility in everything it does.
Our commitment to responsible behaviour is integral to our sustainability agenda.
This addresses key business-related social, environmental and economic impacts in ways that aim to build value for all our stakeholders, including shareholders.
Our Business Principles and our Standards of Business Conduct set out what we require of our companies and employees in terms of responsible corporate behaviour and personal integrity.
We support tobacco regulation that balances the preferences of consumers with the interests of society, establishes an open-minded approach to harm reduction as a policy and enables our businesses to continue to compete and prosper.
Harm reduction is an important element of our strategy.
Sustainability Our sustainability agenda comprises five key goals that include all areas of the Group strategy and is integral to delivering it.
The goals cover developing reduced risk products, the way we operate in the marketplace, responsible management of our supply chain, addressing our environmental impacts and developing our employees within a great workplace culture.
Responsible leaf growing main picture We work with around 250,000 farmers worldwide, who supply all the leaf we buy, to promote high environmental and work place standards.
We have programmes in place to help build a sustainable supply chain, benefiting both farmers and our business.
Research & Development We seek to develop innovative technologies and new products to reduce the harm caused by tobacco use.
We invest heavily in scientific research and are committed to engaging with the external scientific community.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 23 RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Group energy use Our approach to sustainability and public health communities and regulators We established our vision for sustainability as posing reduced risks to health.
This is an GIGAJOULES PER MILLION CIGARETTES EQUIVALENT in 2007 and in 2008 we addressed key important element in our business and we challenges it raised.
To make significant have increased our expenditure and greatly 04 14.44 progress against our sustainability agenda, developed our capabilities over recent years 05 12.60 we need robust, commercial sustainability to meet this challenge.
In 2009, we focused on embedding 07 11.82 We aim to reduce the harm caused by sustainability into our business, to ensure that 08 12.08 smoking and we continue to make progress our people understand that sustainability 09 11.12 in our scientific research in this area.
In 2009, benefits, rather than compromises, We define Group energy use as the energy used by we published more scientific papers than in commercial success.
the Group in its own operations plus energy used any year to date and we are starting to see in Group business travel and freight.
These activities are covered in detail in our results from our clinical studies.
Engagement We do not include energy used to produce and Sustainability Report 2009, which is due for with stakeholders on scientific issues is also deliver purchased energy, which in effect tracks performance of energy suppliers.
publication in early May 2010 and will be improving and our External Scientific Panel, available online at www.
a group of independent scientists set up in 2008, continues to help inform our research Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI Carbon dioxide CO 2 programmes.
In 2009, we were, for the eighth year running, TONNES CO PER MILLION CIGARETTES EQUIVALENT 2 the only tobacco company included in the Research & Development R&D Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
This Group R&D provides scientific support for baseline index tracks the economic, environmental our current range of products and seeks to 00 1.38 and social performance of leading companies develop innovative technologies and new 04 1.25 based on how well they integrate sustainability products.
It also provides guidance on the 05 0.91 into their businesses.
use of ingredients in our products to help our 06 0.87 companies meet Group standards and comply 07 0.88 We use the DJSI as a primary business measure with national legislative requirements.
08 0.94 and set ourselves a target each year of recording 09 0.86 a higher score than the sector average in a Environmental performance Group CO is calculated from the energy used in 2 minimum of 14 out of 18 categories.
We recognise that we need to maintain Group operations, from Group business travel and a clear strategic approach to managing our freight and from Group incineration and landfill.
Our overall score in 2009 decreased from environmental footprint.
It not only makes 84 per cent in 2008 to 81 per cent, while the good economic and environmental sense sector average increased from 69 per cent to for us to use raw materials, energy and water Water use 71 per cent.
We achieved a score of 100 per cent in a sustainable manner, but it is also our in three categories Environmental reporting, CUBIC METRES PER MILLION CIGARETTES EQUIVALENT responsibility to do so.
Our key performance Fuels for tobacco curing and Responsible measures are energy use, water use, waste 04 6.61 marketing : a higher score than the sector to landfill and recycling.
05 5.58 average in 16 exceeding our business measure 06 5.18 target : and the top score in 10.
Responsibility for our Environment, Health & 07 4.85 Safety policy lies with the Management Board Harm reduction 08 4.73 and it applies to our own activities and to our Our approach to tobacco harm reduction 09 4.41 approach to managing our supply chain.
Our is to pursue the research, development and Environment, Health & Safety management is For comparison purposes, the 2004 figure test-marketing of innovative tobacco products, based on international standards, including excludes data from Peru relating to the use of including smokeless, that will be acceptable to irrigation water by farms owned by a company we ISO 14001. acquired in late 2003.
It is unusual for the Group consumers and be recognised by the scientific to own farms.
The farms have now been sold.
24 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES Was 2009 score same Was score higher Dow Jones criteria or better than 2008?
Economic dimension Environmental dimension Social dimension Economic dimension Corporate governance Risk and crisis management Codes of conduct compliance corruption and bribery Customer relationship management Combat smuggling Environmental dimension Environmental policy management Environmental performance eco-efficiency Biodiversity As part of our commitment to environmental Environmental reporting issues, we also focus on minimising our impacts Fuels for tobacco curing on biodiversity.
Raw material sourcing Social dimension Labour practice indicators Human capital development Talent attraction and retention Social standards for suppliers Corporate citizenship philanthropy Social reporting Responsible marketing policies Occupational health and safety TARGET REACHED Our target is to record a higher score than the sector average in a minimum of 14 out of 18 categories.
Energy use Carbon dioxide CO 2 Group energy use in 2009 reduced by 7.9 per Group CO equivalent was down in 2009 2 cent to 11.12 gigajoules per million cigarettes by 8.5 per cent at 0.86 tonnes per million equivalent.
Total energy use was 12.2 million cigarettes equivalent produced, primarily for gigajoules.
An increase in freight was offset by the same reasons as those affecting energy use.
reduced business travel, although the overall Water use increase in energy efficiency was largely due Group water use in 2009 was down by to more detailed measurement of both energy 6.8 per cent to 4.41 cubic meters per million consumption and output at unit level, rather cigarettes equivalent.
Total water use was than specific efficiency improvements.
The increase in water efficiency was largely due to more detailed measurement of consumption and output at unit level, as with energy use.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 25 RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Waste to landfill Landfill and recycling Corporate social investment Group waste sent to landfill decreased in Our corporate social investment CSI activities TONNES PER MILLION CIGARETTES EQUIVALENT 2009 by 21 per cent to 0.019 tonnes per include a range of community and charitable million cigarettes equivalent, largely due projects, centred on empowerment giving 04 0.036 to more detailed measurement at unit level.
people training, education and opportunities 05 0.035 Group recycling increased by 2.1 per cent to help them develop, civic life activities that 06 0.023 to 83.3 per cent of waste generated.
aim to enrich public and community life and 07 0.025 sustainable agriculture and environment 08 0.024 Youth smoking prevention YSP contributions to local agriculture.
09 0.019 Our primary responsibility in this area is to ensure that our marketing is not aimed at Our global CSI expenditure in 2009 was the underage, a subject that is covered by our 14 million 2008: 18 million as defined by Recycling International Marketing Standards.
Our Group the statutory reporting criteria for charitable companies continue to run YSP programmes donations.
PERCENTAGE OF WASTE RECYCLED and, during 2009, our focus has been on a Biodiversity Partnership 04 72.3 more consistent global approach to YSP Since 2001, we have worked with three 05 72.5 across all our markets.
conservation NGOs in the British American 06 81.2 Supply chain Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership.
We donated 07 78.8 Our sustainability agenda extends beyond 1 million a year to the Partnership in its first 08 81.2 our own operations: we want to see social, five years and committed 1.5 million a year 09 83.3 environmental and economic improvements for five years from 2006.
For more, see in our supply chain too.
companies purchase some 390,000 tonnes Eliminating child labour of tobacco leaf a year, around 80 per cent We helped to establish the Eliminating Child of it from farmers and suppliers in emerging Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation in 2001 economies.
We also purchase significant and have actively supported it since.
It brings quantities of other raw materials, such as together the major tobacco manufacturers, packaging, cigarette paper, filter materials, leaf suppliers and representatives of the trades glues, inks and plug wraps.
For more, Social and community issues see www.
We approach social and community issues primarily in terms of the economic, environmental and social impacts of our core operations and our supply chain.
We also invest in a range of philanthropic projects.
26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 STRATEGY IN ACTION YOUTH SMOKING PREVENTION BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO RUSSIA Underage smoking is a significant problem in The caption Sales to minors are prohibited Russia, which has one of the highest rates of is also printed on all cigarette packs that are youth smoking in the world.
To help tackle manufactured or imported, and on all this, our local company, British American advertising and point of sale materials.
Tobacco Russia, has run a youth smoking In 2009, events for retailers were held in more prevention YSP programme since 1999, than 30 cities including Irkutsk, Vladivostok, two years before minimum age legislation Volgograd, Moscow and St Petersburg.
Our was first passed in the country.
company also supported a YSP conference, Our company supports industry-wide action with participants from Russia, Belarus and to reduce underage access to tobacco and Kazakhstan, including representatives from works with other companies, NGO partners local and national government bodies, health and government departments to reach their organisations, retailers and other businesses.
Other activities have focused on educating British American Tobacco Russia provides parents to understand the issue of youth information to retailers encouraging them to smoking and how they can help prevent it.
take the issue of underage smoking seriously, British American Tobacco Russia measures the to observe the minimum age law, and to effectiveness of its YSP activities in a number refuse to sell tobacco products to minors.
of ways, including independent research to Retailers are also provided with stickers to be assess compliance with minimum age laws placed at entrances and at point of sale, and the evaluation of any educational events.
stating that the retailer does not sell tobacco products to anyone under 18.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 27 28 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
