WESTERN EUROPE The inclusion of the full year benefits of the acquisition of ST and good performances in a number of markets, resulted in impressive volume, revenue and profit growth.
Jack Bowles Director, Western Europe Profit in Western Europe increased by Profit in Switzerland was lower due to increased 234 million to 994 million, mainly as a price discounting by competitors and lower result of the acquisition of ST in 2008 and volumes, partially offset by favourable stronger exchange rates, partially offset by exchange rates and a price increase.
Market continuing losses in Poland.
At constant rates share was slightly down while the total market of exchange, profit would have increased by contracted, with Parisienne demonstrating 119 million or 16 per cent.
Regional volumes strong share growth.
were up 6 per cent to 130 billion, as a result Profit improved significantly in Belgium with of the additional volumes due to the acquisition stable volumes and mix benefits supported of the ST businesses and growth in Greece, by lower costs.
There was strong growth in France and Spain, partially offset by declines 18% Pall Mall following the 2008 migration from in Italy, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
Winfield, supported by an increase in Kent.
In PERCENTAGE OF GROUP VOLUME Profit increased in Italy mainly driven by higher the Netherlands, cigarette volumes decreased prices, a better product mix and productivity following the excise increase in late 2008. savings.
Volumes dropped as the total market Profit rose due to favourable exchange rates, contracted and there was a slight decline partially offset by the impact of the overall 130 billion in share, mostly due to MS and other local market decline.
brands, partly offset by growth in Lucky Strike.
In Poland, reported volume increased VOLUMES 6% In Germany, volumes were in line with last significantly due to the incorporation of the year, benefiting from higher market share with ST Polish business.
Organic volumes were strong growth by Pall Mall and higher volumes down driven by the contraction in the market from Lucky Strike, compensating for a decline as a result of general economic conditions 3,884 million in local brands.
This, along with higher margins, and excise-driven price rises.
favourable exchange rates and lower overheads, In Hungary, the impact of declining volumes REVENUE contributed to a significant rise in profit.
was partially offset by productivity benefits and 21% Market share in France was stable with improved margins leading to a slight decrease industry volumes up.
Lucky Strike and Pall Mall in profit.
Profit increased on The acquisition and the integration of ST last year, mainly attributable to the favourable 994 million transformed our businesses in Scandinavia.
exchange rate and the price increase in The combined volumes and market share November 2009.
In Spain, profit and volume PROFIT were slightly lower, although Prince remained grew despite a sharp decline in the total 31% stable.
Profit was in line with expectations at market.
Higher volumes were driven by Pall the time of the acquisition.
Mall and Lucky Strike increasing their market shares.
Increased profit reflected the impact of price rises, as well as overhead savings.
46 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review
