Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 WINNING ORGANISATION ACHIEVE LEADERSHIP OF THE GLOBAL TOBACCO INDUSTRY GROWTH PRODUCTIVITY RESPONSIBILITY WINNING ORGANISATION Ensuring we have the right people and the right work environment 87% to deliver our vision.
OF EMPLOYEES PROUD TO BE Our business spans some 180 markets and employs more than 60,000 people ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS, worldwide.
We work hard to make sure that we have a workplace culture that WELL AHEAD OF THE GLOBAL FMCG allows people to thrive and reach their potential.
BENCHMARK Attracting, developing and retaining talent is central to our ambition to be a winning organisation.
We aim to develop leaders with a clear vision for the business who will motivate those around them.
Fostering a confident culture that embraces change and innovation is also central to our strategy, as is ensuring continuous improvement throughout the Group.
Our reputation as an employer Given the nature of our industry, a strong and clearly differentiated reputation as a world-class employer is critical to our long-term business sustainability.
Our employees come from very diverse cultures and backgrounds, and we benefit from the breadth of new ideas and experiences they bring.
Our employer proposition, known as Bring Your Difference, was launched to existing employees in 2009 before being used as part of our recruitment campaigns.
The proposition aims to describe British American Tobacco as an employer, how we create opportunities for individuality to be recognised and how we encourage people to perform at their best.
A confident workplace culture main picture Employees at our factory in Cachoeirinha, Brazil, performing a daily exercise routine before the start of their shift.
We are committed to creating a confident workplace culture that embraces change and innovation, allows people to thrive and to reach their full potential.
Investing in our people Attracting, developing and retaining motivated, high-quality people from a variety of backgrounds and with a range of skills and experience is key to delivering business results.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 29 WINNING ORGANISATION CONTINUED Recruitment and induction encouraging key suppliers to meet similar New globally aligned standards for standards.
Adherence is monitored through recruitment and induction were developed our audit process.
in 2009, addressing a number of areas, from Diversity process improvements to helping us to match We aim to have a 70 30 ratio of local peoples expectations with their actual job to expatriate senior management team experiences.
A new standard 90-day induction members at business unit level, not as a plan for new employees and line managers quota but because we place a high value will be rolled out throughout the Group on local experience and diversity in our during 2010. workplace.
We also continue to work towards Work environment our goal of increasing the proportion of We are committed to a work environment free women in senior management positions by from harassment, bullying and discrimination.
actively supporting the career development We do not discriminate against people with of our senior female talent.
disabilities who apply for jobs and they get Global integration the same opportunities for promotion, training We are entering a period of change as the and career development as other staff.
Group becomes a more globally integrated We measure how well we create a safe place organisation.
It is clear that, as our business What do our people say?
to work by using the Lost Workday Case changes, what we need from our employees Over 90 per cent of our people responded to Incident Rate LWCIR.
This is derived by also changes.
During 2009, we updated our most recent employee opinion survey with 82 per cent saying they would recommend multiplying the number of lost workday cases our leadership capabilities to reflect the British American Tobacco as a good place to work.
by 200,000 and dividing by the total number commercial skills and knowledge that are of hours worked to provide a normalised becoming increasingly important attributes figure that can be tracked consistently.
In 2009, the LWCIR was 0.37, a decrease from In 2010, we plan to review our leadership 0.40 in 2008, largely due to increased efforts to and management development training reduce injuries across both European regions.
at all levels and aim to ensure that learning opportunities are accessible to as many The highest proportions of injuries were vehicle employees as possible through the use related at 25 per cent 17.3 per cent in 2008, of face-to-face and e-learning techniques.
slips and trips at 22 per cent 26.6 per cent Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR in 2008 and manual activity at 20 per cent Employee opinion survey LWCIR: LOST WORKDAY CASES THROUGH INJURY 21 per cent in 2008.
Entrapment accidents Our Your Voice global employee opinion x 200,000 TOTAL HOURS WORKED increased to 12 per cent compared with survey is conducted by independent 04 0.48 9.8 per cent in 2008. consultants Towers Perrin ISR every two years 05 0.49 and benchmarks our performance against a Regrettably, there were three fatalities in 06 0.42 comparator group of FMCG companies.
One was 07 0.39 2008 survey showed that we were ahead of the result of an attack during a robbery and 08 0.40 this comparator group in all 11 categories two others resulted from vehicle accidents.
Employment Principles From 2006, the figure includes cases of assault Our next survey will be during 2010.
In the as well as accidents.
Our Employment Principles set out our meantime, we will continue addressing the commitment to good employment practices gaps identified in the 2008 survey and, in and workplace related human rights.
The light of the organisational changes we are Principles are available on www.
com going through, we will also seek to further and our intranet.
All our companies have develop our peoples change management committed to the Employment Principles capabilities.
and are required to demonstrate that they are embedding them in the workplace and 30 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Business review Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 STRATEGY IN ACTION COACHING IN SOUTH AFRICA British American Tobacco South Africa has The company has found that building a introduced a programme that enables its coaching culture has challenges and that managers to coach employees in developing key the most important considerations include: skills, rather than relying on structured classroom incorporating the coaching agenda into training to tell people what they need.
the business strategic plan: This one-to-one approach to learning the support and commitment of top and development creates bonds among managers: the companys people over time and can accelerate the development of key leadership robust performance management: and skills and qualities.
It has many advantages sustained momentum, focus and over traditional training, particularly as it continuous communication.
helps make sense of real life dilemmas and challenges instead of using abstract case As well as enabling people to develop studies, giving people first-hand experience faster, the programme has helped to provide in coaching which they can then pass on.
solutions to business challenges that are better thought through.
It has created a A number of initiatives have been put business environment where knowledge in place to develop a coaching culture, is shared widely and where networks can including workshops for new joiners and more comfortably work across traditional support to practices such as executive organisational boundaries.
Directors report: Business review British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 31
