OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTENTS Companies Act 2006 98 Principal activities 98 Group results and dividends 98 Share capital 99 Purchase of own shares 99 Significant agreements change of control 99 Contractual arrangements 99 Articles of Association 100 Creditor payment policy 104 Intra-Group pricing 104 Nicola Snook, Secretary Companies Act 2006 The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report the development and performance of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2009, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Principal activities British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company which owns, directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous companies constituting the British American Tobacco Group of companies.
The principal subsidiaries and associates are listed on the Principal subsidiary undertakings and Principal associate undertakings pages.
All subsidiary undertakings are involved in activities directly or indirectly related to the manufacture, distribution or sale of tobacco products.
Group results and dividends The Group results are addressed fully in the financial statements and in the Directors report: Business review.
The Board recommends to shareholders a final dividend of 71.6p per ordinary share of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2009.
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2010, the dividend will be payable on 6 May 2010 to shareholders registered on either the UK main register or the South African branch register on 12 March 2010, the record date.
The ex-dividend trading dates are 8 March 2010 on the JSE Limited JSE and 10 March 2010 on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared and payable in sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South Africa whose dividends are payable in rand.
A rate of exchange of :R 12.03230 as at 23 February 2010 the closing rate for that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an equivalent final dividend of 861.51268 SA cents per ordinary share.
98 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 From the close of business on 5 March 2010 until the close of business On 8 March 2005, the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. on 12 March 2010, no transfers between the UK main register and B.
A. T Capital Corporation and British American Tobacco Holdings the South African branch register are permitted and no shares may be The Netherlands B. V. as borrowers and, in the case of the Company, dematerialised or rematerialised between 8 March 2010 and 12 March as a borrower and guarantor entered into a revolving credit facility 2010, both days inclusive.
agreement with HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available to Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2009 with the borrowers 1.75 billion for general corporate purposes the Facility.
2008 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower other than the Company Share capital cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, such borrower As at 31 December 2009, the Company had an allotted and fully shall immediately repay any outstanding advances made to it.
Where paid share capital of 2,025,364,622 ordinary shares of 25p each with there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can an aggregate nominal value of 506 million including treasury shares require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
On 7 August 2007, British American Tobacco Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Purchase of own shares as borrower and the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. During the year ended 31 December 2009, the Company made and B.
A. T Capital Corporation as guarantors entered into a term no purchases of its own shares.
In February 2009, the Directors credit facility arrangement with Barclays Capital as mandated lead discontinued the share buy-back programme until further notice.
arranger, HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available to The Directors sought fresh authority for the Company to purchase its the borrower US$690 million to refinance existing facilities and for general ordinary shares in order that the appropriate mechanisms would be corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should the in place to enable the share buy-back programme to be reinstated borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, at any time when, in the opinion of the Directors, the exercise of the the borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding amounts.
Where authority would result in an increase in the Companys earnings per there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can share and would be in the interests of its shareholders generally.
At require all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
the 2009 Annual General Meeting, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 199,600,000 of its ordinary shares.
The minimum On 10 July 2009, British American Tobacco Ttn Mamulleri Sanayi price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the maximum price five Ticaret Anonim Sirketi as borrower, the Company and B.
A. T. is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market International Finance p. l. c. as guarantors entered into a term credit prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as derived from facility agreement with Barclays Bank PLC as agent and certain the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to make available to the borrower 700 million to refinance existing to be purchased.
This present authority for the Company to purchase facilities and for general corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant its own shares will expire at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
to the Facility, should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any In accordance with the Companys policy, any repurchased shares outstanding advances.
Where there is a change of control in respect are held as treasury shares and as at 31 December 2009 the number of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding of treasury shares was 28,960,054.
While treasury shares are held no under the Facility to be repaid.
dividends are paid on them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury shares may be resold at a later date.
Details of the change of control provisions contained in the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plans are given in the Remuneration report.
In order that the Directors may reinstate the share buy-back programme when appropriate, it is proposed that the authority for the Company to Contractual arrangements purchase its own shares is renewed with the applicable resolution to be Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual and put to shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the other arrangements with many third parties in support of the Groups resolution and explanatory notes are contained in the Notice of Annual business activities covering input materials filter tow, tobacco leaf General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and is also published and wrapping materials, logistics and distribution.
and arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one or more operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements Significant agreements change of control considered to be essential to the operation and understanding of The following significant agreements contain certain termination the business or the Group as a whole.
and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of the Company.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 99 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Articles of Association or last reappointment.
A Director who retires at an Annual General The following description summarises certain provisions of the Meeting and is not reappointed shall retain office until the meeting Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special elects someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the conclusion resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2009, applicable of the meeting.
English law and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
This In addition to any power of removal under the Companies Act, summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act the Company may, by special resolution, remove a Director before and the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which is available the expiration of his period of office and, subject to the Articles of on www.
Association, may by ordinary resolution, appoint another person Separate resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to who is willing to act as a Director, and is permitted by law to do so, be held on 28 April 2010 to adopt new Articles of Association to: to be a Director instead of him.
A person so appointed shall be subject 1 reflect the implementation of the relevant provisions of the to retirement by rotation as if he had become a Director on the day on Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last appointed Rights Regulations and 2 to incorporate an amendment to enable or reappointed a Director.
the Company to pay dividends solely by direct credit.
If adopted, the Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be determined substance of the new Articles of Association will be reflected in the by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an annual sum of summary of the articles which will appear in the 2010 Annual Report.
2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution of the Share capital shareholders.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is determined All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, by the Remuneration Committee which is comprised of independent no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company Non-Executive Directors.
from the holders of such shares.
Directors: meetings and voting Objects and purposes The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors The Company is incorporated under the name of British American may delegate any of their powers which are conferred upon them Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under registered under the Articles of Association to such person or committee as they number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys consider appropriate.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director Directors: appointment and retirement voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning a The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of in shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, not subject to interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to any maximum, who shall manage the business of the Company.
be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as 1 the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall retire of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit of, at the next Annual General Meeting and will put himself herself the Company or any of its subsidiaries: forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
2 the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in At each Annual General Meeting, all Directors shall retire from office respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for by rotation who held office at the time of each of the two preceding which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or part and Annual General Meetings and who at either of those preceding Annual whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity General Meetings 1 did not previously retire by rotation or 2 were or by the giving of security: reappointed following his her appointment as an additional Director or 3 the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on substantially to fill a vacancy.
If the number of Directors so retiring is less than onethe same terms as indemnities given, or to be given, to all of the other third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation or, if Directors and or to the funding by the Company of his expenditure their number is not three or a multiple of three, additional Directors on defending proceedings of the doing by the Company of anything shall retire by rotation provided that a number not exceeding one-third to enable him to avoid incurring such expenditure where all other shall retire from office.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act Directors have been given, or are to be given, substantially the same and the Articles of Association, the Directors to retire by rotation will arrangements: be those who have been in office the longest since their appointment 100 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 4 any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers 3 shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company liability insurance: for any benefit which he derives from any such office or employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or from any interest in 5 any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a any such body corporate: participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of any such shares, debentures or other securities for subscription, purchase 4 shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or exchange: or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of any such office 6 any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement benefits or employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or from scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the employees of the any interest in any such body corporate: Company or any of its subsidiaries including but without being limited to an employees share scheme, which does not accord to any Director 5 shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to the employees performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any confidential and or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: and information relating to such office or employment if to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of duty or obligation of 7 any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being confidence owed by him in relation to or in connection with that a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, office or employment: creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or beneficially interested in one per cent or more of the equity share 6 may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from capital of that company or of any other company through which his information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, interest is derived and not entitled to exercise one per cent or more transaction, arrangement or interest: and of the voting rights available to members of the relevant company 7 no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided disregarding, for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a because of any such interest or benefit.
Director as bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no beneficial interest: ii any shares comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the Directors in which the Director is interested only as a unit holder: and iii any that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature and extent shares of that class held as treasury shares.
specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is interested is deemed to be a The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any disclosure that the Director has an interest in any such transaction of extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any the nature and extent so specified: and an interest of which a Director provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a has knowledge and of which it is unreasonable to expect him to have meeting of the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
knowledge is not treated as an interest.
Directors: borrowing powers A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may exercise transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage a relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must still or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and future and take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to the provisions of interests of the Directors connected persons mean that a Director the Articles of Association to issue debentures, debenture stock and should be treated as interested in a transaction.
other securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always to their Directors: interests right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to the fullest Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors extent permitted by law: the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, notwithstanding his office: 1 any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct 1 may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is interests of the Company and which may reasonably be regarded otherwise interested: as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including a conflict of 2 may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a interest and duty or conflict of duties : party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with any body corporate promoted by the Company or in which the Company is otherwise interested: Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 101 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED 2 a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the date position in addition to this office as a Director of the Company and when it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, may authorise the manner on which a conflict of interest arising out be forfeited and shall cease to be owed by the Company.
of such office, employment or position may be dealt with, either The Company can cease sending dividend warrants and cheques before or at the time that such a conflict of interest arises, provided by post or otherwise if these have been returned undelivered to, that the authorisation is only effective if: or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at least two consecutive i any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at which the occasions, or, if following one such occasion, reasonable enquiries matter is considered is met without counting the Director in question have failed to establish the members new address.
No dividend or any other interested Director: and shall bear interest against the Company, unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
ii the matter was agreed to without their voting or would have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
Voting rights Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised by hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as the shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and Directors may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation or the permissions meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held by set out below : the shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, every 1 the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote information relating to such matter, or such office, employment or for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder or his duly position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would result appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need not use all in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
A poll may relation to or in connection with that matter, or that office, be demanded by any of the following: employment or position: 1 the chairman of the meeting: 2 the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in 2 the Directors: meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself from information which will or may relate to that matter, or that office, 3 not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at the employment or position: and meeting: 3 a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the 4 a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which he of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at derives from any such matter, or from any such office, employment the meeting excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares : or position.
or Dividend rights 5 a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right excluding interim dividends if it appears that such dividends are justified by the any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company than out of profits available as specified under the provisions of the by proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: Companies Act.
1 ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of the appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the of the whole or part of all such dividends as may be specified by the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the grant of authority to allot shares: and recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by the distribution of specific 2 special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard to distribution, the Directors the Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating may ignore fractions or issue fractional certificates, fix the value for to certain matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
distribution of any assets and may determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to adjust the rights of such members.
102 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance Performance Group financial Parent Company Shareholder From the Chairman and strategy Regional review Financial review Governance statements financial statements information www.
com annualreport2009 An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the Company than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present in person Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company are, with or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a corporation certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles of Association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to a casting vote Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than in addition to any other votes he may have.
pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to Winding-up existing shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or more If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless of a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, subject this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the shareholders Alteration of share capital the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may, for that The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: purpose, value any assets and determine how the division is to take place as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
1 consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger Alternatively, with the same sanction, the liquidator may vest the whole amount than its existing shares: or any part of the assets in trustees upon trusts for the benefit of the 2 sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset its existing shares: and upon which there is a liability.
3 determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a Transfer of shares sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual as compared with the others.
form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in 1 the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital redemption their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in reserve and any share premium account in any way: and certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are 2 the Company may purchase its own shares, including redeemable not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them.
also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons 1 is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint and shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it relates and although there are such requirements under statute and regulation.
such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services the right of the transferor to make the transfer: and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Authority imposes a statutory 2 is in respect of only one class of share: and obligation on a person to notify the Company and the Financial 3 is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Services Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, In the case of uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations if the percentage of those voting rights: 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons.
1 reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of shares, they must give or financial instruments: or the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in any event within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged 2 reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any with the Company.
No fees may be charged for the registration of a change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in the Company.
Directors report: Governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 103 OTHER STATUTORY AND REGULATORY INFORMATION CONTINUED The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances Repurchase of shares in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by notice or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of share capital.
notice interested in the Companys shares, to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Creditor payment policy Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
Given the international nature of the Groups operations, there is The Disclosure and Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure not a global standard code for the Group in respect of payments to by persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries have signed up to the which they are Directors and certain associated companies.
Better Payment Practice Code under which each company undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its suppliers at the The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure outset of each transaction: 2 explain its payment procedures to its requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or suppliers: 3 pay bills in accordance with the agreed terms and all legal offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective requirements: and 4 inform suppliers without delay when contesting associates during the course of an offer period.
an invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are available General meetings and notices on the website, www.
An Annual General Meeting and all other general meetings of the Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing terms Company must be called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods However, the Companies Act as amended by the Shareholders and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms Rights Regulations allows for this period of notice for meetings other of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where than Annual General Meetings to be reduced to 14 clear days notice appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to provided that provided that two conditions are met: 1 a company must allow suppliers meet their contractual commitments.
shareholders to make proxy appointments via a website such as that hosted by its share registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company as it is special resolution at the Annual General Meeting every year approving an investment holding Company and had no trade creditors at that shortening of the notice period to 14 days.
A special resolution 31 December 2009. enabling the Company to hold general meetings other than Annual Intra-Group pricing General Meetings on 14 days notice will be proposed at the Annual The prices agreed between Group companies for Intra-Group sales General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2010. of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, commissions, Variation of rights services and fees are based on the normal commercial practices which If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, would apply between independent businesses.
the rights attached to any class of shares may only be varied, either On behalf of the Board in such a manner as provided by those rights or in the absence of any provision, with the consent in writing of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of holders of such shares.
At Nicola Snook any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons together Secretary holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal amount 24 February 2010 of the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned meeting shall be any one person holding shares of the class or his proxy.
British American Tobacco p. l. c. Registered in England and Wales No.
3407696 Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in respect of capital or which confer on the holders voting rights more favourable than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
104 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2009 Directors report: Governance
