Investment Policy This Investment policy was updated by the Company in 2008 and to a lesser extent but counting towards the same aggregate prior to the C share issue to reflect the changes in Listing Rule 35 per cent.
This policy has been approved by the Directors, who do not consider the policy to have changed limited partnerships and other funds that make infrastructure materially from the policy set out in the launch prospectus investments: and or March 2006. financial instruments and securities issued by companies that make infrastructure investments, or whose activities are Investment criteria similar or comparable to infrastructure investments.
The Group being the Company and its wholly-owned The percentages stated above in relation to investment allocations subsidiaries will also seek to enhance returns for Shareholders will apply only at the time the relevant investment is made.
by acquiring additional more diverse investments with attractive yield growth prospects.
These may be single investments or Single investment limit and diversity of clients portfolios of investments.
and suppliers When any new acquisition is made, the Company will ensure that The Directors intend that the Group will seek to acquire: the investment acquired does not have an acquisition value and if it is an additional stake in an existing investment, the combined additional investments in infrastructure and PFI PPP P3 value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired projects which have predominantly availability based of greater than 20% of the Total Gross Assets of the Company income streams: and immediately post acquisition.
Total Gross Assets will be investments in companies with demand based concessions calculated based on the last published gross investment i. e. where the payments received depend on the level of use, valuation of the portfolio plus acquisitions made since then at and may be made by the user of, the project assets to the their cost of acquisition.
extent that the Investment Adviser considers that demand and therefore stability of revenue is established: and The purpose of this limit is to ensure the portfolio has a number investments in companies in the regulated utilities sector of similarly sized investments and is not dominated by any which have appropriate risk reward characteristics.
To the extent that it is consistent with the principles of prudent In selecting new investments to acquire, the Investment Adviser portfolio management and the maintenance and growth of an will seek to ensure that the portfolio of investments has a range attractive long term distribution yield for Shareholders, the of public sector clients and supply chain contractors, in order to Company may invest in aggregate up to 35 per cent.
of its total avoid over-reliance on either a single client or a single contractor.
gross assets at the time the relevant investment is made in: Geographic focus Project companies or concessions which have not yet The Company is able to make investments in the European completed their construction phases, but where prospective Union, Norway, Switzerland, the Americas and selected yield characteristics and associated risks are deemed territories in Asia and Australasia.
Whilst the current portfolio is appropriate to the investment objectives of the Company.
This predominantly UK based, the intention is to diversify may include investment in companies which are in the process geographically if suitable investments can be identified.
of bidding for concessions, to the extent that such companies form part of a more mature portfolio of investments which the It can also make investments in other markets should suitable Group considers it appropriate to acquire: and or opportunities arise, and will seek to mitigate country risk by Project companies or concessions with demand based concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where income streams where the Investment Adviser considers it considers that contract structures and enforceability are that demand and stability of revenues are not yet established reliable, where to the extent applicable public sector obligations and or project companies which do not have public sector carry a satisfactory credit rating, and where financial markets are sponsored awarded or government-backed concessions: relatively mature.
8 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2009 New investments and conflicts of interest Gearing It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the The Company has secured debt facilities to enable further Investment Adviser and Operator and some of these acquisitions to be made.
Under the Companys Articles, the investments may have been originated and developed by, and Groups outstanding borrowings, including any financial may be acquired from, an HBSC Specialist Investments Ltd guarantees to support outstanding subscription obligations, are HSIL subsidiary or a fund managed by an HSIL subsidiary.
In limited to 50 per cent of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its order to deal with these potential conflicts of interest, detailed investments and cash balances.
For this purpose, outstanding procedures and arrangements have been established to manage borrowings exclude internal Group borrowings and debts of the transactions between the Group and an HSIL subsidiary or fund Groups underlying investments.
managed by an HSIL subsidiary the Rules of Engagement.
Changes to Investment Policy Key features of the Rules of Engagement include: Material changes to the Groups investment policy may only be made by Ordinary Resolution of the Shareholders of the creation of separate committees within HSIL.
committees represent the vendors on the one hand the Sellside Committee and the Group on the other the Current focus Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length decision The Investment Adviser is tasked with executing the above making and approval processes.
The membership of each strategy and policy.
In relation to new investments, the current committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its focus is on concessions and projects in the following core independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising: infrastructure sectors: limited partnerships and other funds that make infrastructure investments: and or PFI PPP P3 projects in the UK, Europe, North America and a requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct an Australia both operational and still in their construction phases independent due diligence process prior to making an offer Operational renewable energy projects such as wind farms, for its purchase: solar parks or hydro-electric schemes, where there are a requirement for any offer made for an asset to be supported suitable contractual structures in place, enabling the Group to by a report on the Fair Market Value for the transaction from secure long term income streams not dissimilar in nature to an independent expert: those in PFI PPP P3 projects.
A number of these schemes the establishment of Chinese walls between the Buyside have now been developed in Europe with established and Sellside Committees with appropriate information barrier contractual tariff regimes procedures to ensure information that is confidential to one or Regulated utilities.
To date we have passed up investment the other side is kept confidential to that side: and opportunities on the grounds of size and pricing.
However, the provision of a release letter to each employee of HSIL opportunities to acquire stakes in regulated businesses are who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
now expected to arise at acceptable returns The release letter confirms that the employee shall be Selectively, debt funding in infrastructure projects where it is treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee attractively priced and appropriately structured.
to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside or Sellside Committee.
