01 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 1.
FINANCIAL SUMMARY 2009 2008 Variance m m % Revenue 1,601 1,304 23 1 Operating expenses 1,263 988 28 Other income 23 16 44 1 Operating profit 361 332 9 Net finance costs 24 7 243 1 Associates net of tax 9 580 1 Profit before tax 346 330 5 2 Profit before tax statutory 281 275 2 Variance pence pence % Dividend per share 17.05 15.65 9 Earnings per share 2 Basic 27.6 26.4 5 Adjusted basic 34.1 31.3 9 Variance m m % 2 Net assets 1,140 856 33 3 Free cash flow 296 232 28 4 Net debt 126 59 114 Read more ICAP has demonstrated that its business model on page 36 is robust and has delivered strong financial performance and cash flow in challenging market conditions.
Group revenue rose 23% 1 to 1,601 million and operating profit rose 9% to 361 million.
With a strong balance sheet and control environment, ICAP remains well positioned to continue to grow its voice, electronic and post-trade businesses.
Notes: 1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 Restated following a prior year adjustment to recognise the unwind of deferred tax liabilities on intangible assets arising on consolidation.
3 Free cash flow is net cash flow from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure and dividends received from associates and other investments.
4 Net debt is cash and cash equivalents less long-term and short-term borrowings and overdrafts.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 02 2. WHO WE ARE ICAP is the worlds premier voice and electronic interdealer broker and provider of post-trade services.
The Group is active in the wholesale markets in interest rates, credit, commodities, FX, emerging markets, equities and equity derivatives.
ICAP has an average daily transaction volume in excess of $2.3 trillion, more than 40% of which is electronic.
We are active in both established and emerging markets and operate a global network covering more than 50 countries.
We believe that we can best provide the service our customers need by combining the strengths of our people together with technology continuing to set the standard for our industry.
Read more on page 22 s s k k n n a a b b l a r t t n n e C e m t s s e e t v a r n 03 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 3.
WHAT WE DO ICAP provides specialist intermediary broking services to trading professionals in the wholesale over-the-counter OTC markets.
An interdealer broker matches buyers and sellers in wholesale markets, so that deals can be executed by its customers.
ICAP uses voice broking or electronic networks to facilitate price discovery and liquidity, receiving a commission when a transaction is completed.
The majority of markets in which ICAP operates rely on voice brokers to draw together liquidity, particularly in bespoke, less liquid products.
More commoditised products are increasingly traded on one of ICAPs electronic networks.
ICAPs combined solution offers access to markets across all asset classes and levels of liquidity.
ICAP also provides a range of post-trade services to help its customers reduce operational risk and costs in their markets.
This increases their capacity and facilitates new trading opportunities, which in turn benefits ICAP.
The majority of products in our markets are cleared by a central The role of the interdealer broker counterparty or clearing house, which reduces overall risk in the market.
Read more on page 22 o i p r d o n C a l a i c r s e d n m u f e g m d e H o C ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 04 4.
DIVERSITY OF OUR BUSINESS Our geographic regions Our divisions ICAPs businesses are distributed across more Our business is organised across three divisions than 50 locations in 32 countries worldwide.
R Voice broking We manage our business across three main regions R Electronic broking R Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA R Information R The Americas R Asia Pacific Voice broking Voice brokers play an important role in many of ICAP has a strong presence in all major financial the markets in which ICAP is active.
In markets centres in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
where there is less liquidity, voice brokers work Our largest offices are in London and New York with their customers to match buyers and sellers and we have 15 offices in Asia Pacific, including and facilitate price discovery.
This is particularly Singapore, Hong Kong and Tokyo.
We recently important in new, innovative markets.
expanded our Latin American operations into Brazil.
Electronic broking As markets become more liquid and products become more standardised they are increasingly traded on electronic broking platforms.
ICAPs global network, of which the largest platforms are EBS for spot FX and BrokerTec for fixed income products, is highly scalable and offers connectivity to over 7,400 workstations and 1,500 algorithmic trading systems worldwide.
Increasingly our networks are integrated with our customers own post-trade networks.
ICAP is a leading provider of post-trade services through our subsidiaries, Traiana and Reset, and our associate TriOptima.
Information ICAP is the source of global market information and research for professionals in the international financial markets.
Our market data offering includes real-time, end of day and historical market data from our electronic broking and post-trade platforms.
05 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Our key markets Long-term trends continue to favour ICAPs business ICAP is active in a broad range of markets, R instability in currencies, interest rate and credit including interest rates, credit, commodities, markets leading to price volatility and forming FX, equities, emerging markets, information and the basis for further growth in interest rate and post-trade services.
The recent financial crisis has credit derivatives, FX, commodities and listed resulted in severe macroeconomic and financial financial markets: market dislocations, and this has impacted these R the overall commitment of bank and hedge markets to varying degrees.
fund capital to trading in these markets: Overall, reduction in risk capital, increased R increasing use of derivatives to efficiently regulatory oversight and the increased manage and hedge risk exposure to changes demand for improved operational and capital in interest and FX rates, commodity and other efficiency in global financial markets price fluctuations: provide attractive opportunities for ICAP.
R the substantial increase in government and Read more corporate bond issuance as a result of liquidity on page 24 concerns in global markets: R re-allocation of capital to commoditised flow markets and the structural shift away from complex structured products: R increased regulatory pressure on financial market participants to overhaul market infrastructure, reducing systemic and operational risk by improving back office procedures and introducing centralised clearing of OTC traded products: R increased regulatory pressure for electronic trading, best execution and price transparency, with the associated audit benefits: R continued liberalisation of emerging markets and development of on and offshore interest rate, FX and credit markets in these countries: and R overall demographic shift towards emerging markets.
OUR STRATEGIC GOALS ICAPs strategic goals have been clear and consistent to be the leading global intermediary and post-trade services provider and our aim is to have R 35% share of overall market revenues R 50% of profit derived from electronic broking and to generate superior EPS growth for our investors.
We believe we can best do this by building and maintaining close and collaborative long-term relationships with our customers, leveraging our technology and growing the business, both organically and by selective acquisition.
Read more on page 16 07 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 6.
HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS The charts on the right show some of the key Share of the global OTC market Target 35% performance indicators against which ICAP management measures the development of 2008 20%22% the business.
We believe these indicators provide 2009 21%23% a good measure of the progress we are making 1 2 Operating profit split between voice, electronic and information towards our strategic goals.
Target 50% of profit derived from electronic broking Voice Electronic Information As ICAP continues to innovate and diversify its 2007 69% 22% 9% business organically and by acquisition, we believe 2008 61% 32% 7% that the percentage of our revenue derived from 2009 59% 35% 6% new businesses is an important indicator of our 3 commitment to new initiatives to expand and grow New business the business.
In voice broking we consider revenue 2007 16% per voice broker a key performance indicator of 2008 20% the productivity of this division.
Technology spend 2009 28% as a percentage of revenue is a measure of our Voice revenue per voice broker commitment to building and improving our competitiveness in electronic broking.
2007 454,000 2008 499,000 2009 560,000 Read more on page 27 Staff compensation as percentage of revenue 2007 57% 2008 56% 2009 59% Technology spend as a percentage of revenue 2007 12% 2008 12% 2009 11% Notes: 1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 60% of ICAPs information divisions operating profit is derived from electronic broking.
3 Revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years.
HOW WE HAVE PERFORMED EMEA was once again ICAPs most profitable Voice broking region with the highest operating profit margin.
Our voice broking division had strong revenue The region delivered a very strong performance growth, particularly in EMEA, as the dislocations driven primarily by interest rates, equities and in global financial markets and extreme volatility commodities.
Markets in the Americas remained made the price discovery mechanism and the unsettled as banks restructured and reallocated depth of the liquidity pools provided by our leverage and government fiscal easing continued.
ICAPs voice broking The Asia Pacific region performed well despite the businesses benefited from the shift to traditional global reduction in risk appetite.
flow businesses interest rate swaps, government bonds, FX and commodities.
% of Group operating profit % of Group operating profit 1 EMEA 48% 1 2 The Americas 38% 3 1 Voice broking 59% 1 3 3 Asia Pacific 14% 2 Electronic broking 35% 3 Information 6% 2 2 Geographic performance Electronic broking Revenue m % Growth Electronic broking, including post-trade services, EMEA 729 20 had another strong year in terms of revenue and The Americas 644 22 operating profit, despite short-term fallout from Asia Pacific 228 37 the dislocations in the credit markets as hedge funds deleveraged and bank proprietary trading was reduced.
The fixed income and FX businesses remain very strong and are well positioned to benefit from increased government and corporate bond issuance and currency volatility.
Demand for improvements in the efficiency of post-trade processing and for reductions in the capital allocated to existing positions continues to provide opportunities for ICAPs range of post-trade processing, portfolio compression and reconciliation and risk management services Traiana, TriOptima and Reset.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
09 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Divisional performance Equities and equity derivatives continued to Revenue m % Growth experience difficult market conditions and our growth in this market was driven primarily by Voice broking 1,225 24 ICAPs acquisition of equity derivatives broker Link Electronic broking 324 19 and the development of our cash equities business.
Information 52 30 Emerging market activity has seen some slowdown following many years of very strong growth, Information ICAP is the source of market information, research however ICAP has been investing selectively in the market, notably in Brazil.
ICAP agreed to acquire and commentary for professionals in the global financial markets.
A significant part of the revenue of Arkhe, a leading independent broker in Brazil, in November 2008. this division is sourced from ICAPs electronic broking business.
During the year there has been significant investment in the divisions systems and processes to improve the efficiency and breadth of its offering, resulting in reduced margins.
Key achievements 2008 09 Expanded our business in the key focus areas including Markets R completed the successful integration of the Link equity ICAPs market segmentation reflects the way our derivatives business: customers manage their businesses: interest rates, R launched our global cash equities business with 76 staff credit, commodities, FX, equities, emerging in Europe, North America and Asia: markets and information.
R established our domestic Brazilian business: The interest rate market has seen a shift towards R continued ICAPs expansion into the shipping markets with the acquisition and integration of Capital Shipbrokers: simpler products, resulting in strong revenues from R in addition to our acquisitions, invested 44 million in flow products such as interest rate swaps and new initiatives: government bonds.
The global credit markets also R further expansion in post-trade services Traiana, saw growth in less complex products, with the Reset and TriOptima: strongest performance in the market coming from R extended the coverage on our electronic corporate bonds.
With spreads in general widening, broking platforms: and the price discovery mechanism provided by our R generated 9% adjusted basic EPS growth for our voice brokers has risen in value.
derivative volumes remain subdued, particularly in structured products which are only a very small part of ICAPs business.
Global commodity markets have been extremely volatile, resulting in record revenue for ICAPs commodities business in EMEA Read more and the Americas, particularly in oil and fuel on page 22 products, natural gas and emissions.
The shipping markets experienced very difficult conditions.
MANAGING RISK The directors believe that robust risk management While ICAPs approach to risk has been proven is a fundamental part of ICAPs business.
The over the past 18 months, we nevertheless significant risks of the Group are continually constantly seek to improve the maturity, monitored, assessed and managed at the robustness and sustainability of our Group-wide relevant level.
risk management framework and to promote enhanced risk management discipline across all The Group has classified its exposure into eight businesses and supporting functions.
risk types: operational, credit, market, liquidity, financial, regulatory, reputational and strategic.
Read more As a broker, intermediating flow between trading on page 28 counterparties, the Group does not take proprietary risk positions and is therefore not structurally exposed to either significant market price or related credit risk.
The principal risks which it identified and for which it prepared have proven to be the ones it faced during the worst dislocation of financial markets in recent years.
The effective management of these risks resulted in ICAP suffering no significant loss during this exceptional period.
11 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 9.
HOW WE ARE REWARDED The policy behind the remuneration of executive Share-based remuneration directors remuneration is completely aligned with Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer the interests of shareholders.
Performance-related pay is the main component of overall remuneration, Matthew Lester Group Finance Director 50% of which is held in ICAP shares for a threeyear period.
John Nixon Chief Executive Officer ICAP Electronic Broking The principles of the directors remuneration policy have been developed over a number of years to Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer recognise and reward the rapid and substantial growth of the Group.
The charts set out the Cash percentage Share-based percentage performance-related and the share-based elements of the remuneration of the four executive directors.
Read more on page 51 Performance-related pay Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Matthew Lester Group Finance Director John Nixon Chief Executive Officer ICAP Electronic Broking Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer Fixed percentage Performance-related percentage ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 12 10.
OUR KEY RESOURCES The board also oversees ICAPs risk management, Management control and compliance functions.
There is a clear ICAP is managed by an experienced board of division between the roles and responsibilities of directors who are responsible for ICAPs strategy the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer.
and long-term business objectives, acquisitions The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the and major investments.
board and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and the Group Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
ICAP has built a very strong competitive position with a very capable management team, led by the Global Executive Management Group.
This group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management and meets six times per year.
Global Executive Management Group Board Non-executive Executive Senior directors directors management Charles Gregson Michael Spencer David Casterton Nicholas Cosh Matthew Lester Stephen McDermott James McNulty John Nixon Ron Purpora William Nabarro Mark Yallop Doug Rhoten David Puth Kim Rosenkilde David Rutter Read more Read more on page 42 on page 20 13 ICAP plc Annual Report 2009 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Staff Technology Our ability to attract and retain the highest quality In order to remain competitive, our technology staff and leverage their intellectual capital is one of developers must not only ensure that our electronic, the key factors driving the success of our business voice and post-trade platforms meet the needs in a competitive environment.
ICAP has more than of our customers but also that we are able 4,300 staff worldwide, with over 1,800 employees to anticipate their needs in a rapidly changing based in EMEA, more than 1,700 in the Americas environment.
To maintain the highest standards, and over 750 staff in Asia Pacific.
Our brokers we make continual, strong investment in our and their managers comprise the largest group technical infrastructure to improve our key of our staff.
They are highly entrepreneurial, performance metrics.
During the year we dynamic, team spirited individuals with extremely spent 11% of our revenue on technology to strong networking and interpersonal skills.
improve our key performance metrics of: Our technology professionals, sales, marketing R stability and support staff also contribute greatly to our overall success.
R availability R recoverability Read more R operational control on page 34 R security R performance R capacity R latency reduction Suppliers We rely on a number of key suppliers to help us carry out our business.
We have put in place procedures to ensure that purchasing decisions balance cost against other factors including service quality, global reach and resilience.
