IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 30 Corporate Governance All directors have access to the advice and services of the The workings of the Board and Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that applicable rules its Committees and regulations are complied with.
Directors receive appropriate The Board training as necessary when they are appointed.
Training on the The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and duties and responsibilities of directors is provided by the Groups the Chief Executive is clearly defined in writing and has been legal advisers.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper directors and staff.
A statement of the directors The Board meets regularly: at least five times a year.
In addition responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on the Board meets when necessary to discuss ad hoc emerging page 49 and a statement regarding the use of the going concern important issues that require consideration between regular basis in preparing these financial statements is given on page 47. board meetings.
The non-executive directors have a particular The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the to it.
These include: executive directors are appropriate and fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive setting Group strategy: appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital distributed to all directors in advance of board meetings and expenditure: financial information is distributed monthly.
The Chairman ensures that the directors take independent professional advice approval of extension of the Groups activities into new business as required.
or geographic areas: approving annual budgets: The following committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: reviewing operational and financial performance: reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk Remuneration Committee management: The Remuneration Committee comprises Roger Yates Chair, Sir Alan Budd, Jonathan Davie and Martin Jackson, who are all approving Board, Board Committee and Company Secretary independent directors.
It makes recommendations to the Board, appointments: within agreed terms of reference, on an overall remuneration ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and package for executive directors in order to attract, retain and senior management: motivate high quality directors capable of achieving the Groups defining and setting Board Committee terms of reference: objectives.
Consideration is given to pay and employment policies elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining approving policies relating to directors remuneration and the annual salary increases.
The Committee determines the contract severance of directors contracts: terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive setting risk appetite and approving any changes to the Groups directors, including performance-related bonus schemes, risk management policy which materially increase the risk pension rights, compensation payments and contingent share profile of the Group: and awards.
The Committee approves all share-based awards under receiving reports on the views of the Companys shareholders.
the Groups LTIP and SIP schemes and approves the remuneration of the Chairman.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of Matters not specifically reserved to the Board are delegated to the other non-executive directors.
These include: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for the Group: implementation of the strategies of the Group: day to day monitoring of the operating and financial results of the Group: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and developing and implementing risk management systems, policies and procedures.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Corporate Governance 31 Summary of main activities undertaken by the Audit Committee The workings of the Board and during the financial year: its Committees continued reviewed the annual report and interim results of the Group: Audit Committee reviewed and approved key regulatory documents produced The Audit Committee members comprising Martin Jackson by the Group Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Chair, with recent and relevant financial experience, Roger Yates ICAAP and Capital Requirements Directive CRD, Pillar 3 and Sir Alan Budd are all independent non-executive directors.
Disclosures prior to formal approval by the Board: The Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal reviewed the external auditors audit planning and other Audit, Head of Compliance, Company Secretary and the external reports, proposed audit fees and performance of the external auditors attend the Audit Committee by invitation appropriate auditors including their independence and objectivity: to the matters under consideration.
Other directors, reviewed the policy on the use of external auditors for nonrepresentatives from the finance function and other areas of the audit services and reviewed all non-audit services provided by business attend the Audit Committee as and when required.
the external auditors to ensure compliance with the policy as The Audit Committee normally meets four times a year and as part of the safeguards in place to ensure the independence of and when required.
the audit is not compromised: The main duties of the Audit Committee are: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the risk management systems: Group including annual and interim reports, preliminary results reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function announcements and any other formal announcements relating including a review of the three-year rolling internal audit to its financial performance, reviewing significant issues and plan, individual internal audit reports and the report on the judgements contained therein: implementation of internal audit recommendations: to keep up to date with changes to Accounting Standards and reviewed reports from the compliance functions: to review any changes to accounting polices year on year: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups implementation of to consider and make recommendations to the Board on the the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF requirements: appointment, re-appointment and removal of the companys reviewed the Companys procedures for detecting internal external auditors, which is subject to shareholder approval: fraud: and to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and reviewed the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
risk management systems: In addition, the members of the Audit Committee meet privately to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal in separate meetings with Head of Internal Audit, Head of audit function: Compliance and external auditors to focus on respective areas to review the overall effectiveness of the Groups of responsibility and to discuss any potential issues where implementation of the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF support from the Audit Committee may be required to address requirements: and any issues arising.
to review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise The Audit Committee members also received presentations concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial from IT production, IT development and the Sports department reporting or other matters.
during the course of the financial year as part of an on-going The Company Secretary drafts the agenda for each Audit programme to provide them wit h more in-depth knowledge of Committee, ensuring that each item in the terms of reference the operations of the business.
is covered at least once in the financial year and more frequently Following each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on if required, which is then finalised by the Chair of the its activities.
During the financial year the focus has been on keeping up to date with changes in Accounting Standards, developments in financial and corporate governance reporting requirements and developments in the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
