IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Technology 07 We are constantly looking at ways to deliver advanced technology Technology IGs trading platforms are founded on award-winning technology.
We continue to lead the field in terms of innovation, quality of execution and reliability.
Robust and reliable systems During unprecedented volatility in September and October 2008, our trading systems stood up to the rigours of extreme market conditions.
IGs PureDeal platform was available throughout the period, handling an unheralded 700,000 trades in one week at a time when competitors and even the London Stock Exchange suffered outage.
Off site, we have a state-of-the-art disaster-recovery facility which hosts our extensive network of backup servers.
The venue operates as a fully functioning office, allowing the company to continue providing a full service should an emergency arise.
Disaster Recovery is properly invoked and tested throughout the year.
Integrating the latest technologies IG clients can deal using the latest technology, from Apples groundbreaking iPhone 3GS and iPod touch, to an increasing number of mobile phones, BlackBerry and PDA devices.
Our charting packages have also been updated for use on the iPhone.
Another major development over the past year has been the introduction of our new Close-Out Monitor.
The system closely monitors margin levels to ensure that clients do not suffer runaway losses.
n We are constantly looking at ways to deliver advanced technology.
Over the last year we have introduced: PureDeal ABC Trading PureDMA extrabet.
com in Japan The latest white label Clients can trade straight Our new sports platform Japanese clients can offering from the Group into the order book of successfully integrates fixedseamlessly migrate to our allows our partners to worldwide equity exchanges odds, spread-betting and binary browser-based PureDeal brand the trading platform using Direct Market Access prices, plus a casino, all on one trading platform via the in their colours and offer it on our browser-based platform.
This unique site is the FXOnline site.
first of its kind in the world.
