IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 02 Global Marketing Activity Global Marketing Activity he IG Group deploys a global marketing strategy, across multiple media, to ensure high brand visibility in the countries in which we operate.
Our activity includes online and print advertising, television, event and team sponsorship, plus an ongoing presence at seminars T and worldwide investment shows.
Get Thinking campaign To support IGs global expansion, the Group rolled out its innovative Get Thinking campaign across the UK, US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
The campaign centred on cause and effect, depicting how events in the real world impact upon the financial markets.
The adverts asked the audience if they could make the connections.
If so, it was time to take a position with IG.
2008 2009 Global media and Get Thinking brand Italian office opened, Get Thinking brand creative agencies campaign launched Portuguese operation campaign launched appointed in UK and Asia Pacific launched in Europe Sep 2008 Oct 2008 Nov 2008 Jan 2009 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Global Marketing Activity 03 The Get Thinking campaign takes the IG brand to a global audience Television advertising Ongoing focus on client needs The pinnacle of the 2008 2009 Get Thinking campaign was An important factor in client recruitment and retention is our a television advert designed and executed by a leading education programme, which includes our TradeSense course worldwide ad agency.
The advert helped take the IG brand to and our in-house and online training seminars.
Our series of a global TV audience, airing on the financial strands of major consumer-focussed product ads in the national press helped to channels, including Bloomberg, BBC World and Sky News.
inform prospective clients that we offer a number of tools and programmes to help them on their trading journey.
g New FXOnline site PureDMA campaign extrabet.
com launched in Japan in the UK and Australia site relaunched Feb 2009 Feb 2009 Mar 2009 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 04 Global Marketing Activity A local emphasis from a global provider In March 2009, the Group relaunched its sports brand UK and mainland Europe extrabet.
Manga-style IG Index, IG Markets and extrabet.
com animations were complemented by team sponsorship and The Group launched the redesigned website of its flagship a guerrilla marketing campaign featuring a rugby ball and spread-betting brand IG Index in May 2009.
quantitative research commissioned with major market research companies provided positive feedback on the site and showed Asia Pacific that the audience connected with the Get Thinking campaign.
FXOnline, IG Markets Australia, IG Markets Singapore The Get Thinking concept was also used to promote our CFD The Group broke further into the Asia Pacific market with the trading brand, IG Markets, and the campaign rolled out across acquisition of FXOnline, a major forex provider in Japan.
Our inall marketing channels in the UK, Italy, France, Germany, Spain house UK and Japanese marketing teams produced a new and and Portugal.
During the last year the success of our European distinctive website, available in both languages, while existing brands has seen us launch new offices and operations for clients FXOnline clients were migrated onto the PureDeal platform.
in Portugal, Italy and Luxembourg.
2009 CFDs introduced TV ad screened in the in Japan UK, Japan and Australia Mar 2009 Apr 2009 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Global Marketing Activity 05 As our operations continue to expand in new territories, so does our marketing push In March 2009, FXOnline broadened its product set by becoming North America the first provider to offer both CFDs and binary options in Nadex and IG Markets US Japan, as well as lowering spreads on key currency pairs.
Both initiatives were backed up by extensive online, print and outdoor The IG Group continues to support the US trading arm of advertising in conjunction with the roll-out of the Get Thinking IG Markets with targeted email marketing and an ongoing TV ad.
As our operations in Australia and Singapore continue to expand, In May 2009, the Group launched its latest venture: Nadex, so does our marketing push within these territories.
As well as the North American Derivatives Exchange, with the tagline our Get Thinking brand ads, IG Markets promoted its level 2 Derivatives, simplified.
The site was promoted via online and PureDMA trading platform with a series of product-led online direct marketing, as well as advertorial copy in a number of banner ads in Australia.
n IG Index site New treatment of relaunched brand ads released Nadex launch May 2009 May 2009 Jun 2009
