IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 42 Directors Report Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on with the Group financial statements for the year ended 13 October 2009 to those shareholders on the register at 31 May 2009.
Principal activities Review of business and future The principal activities of the Group throughout the year have developments been those of trading as principal and market maker for contracts A review of the Groups progress, outlining developments during for difference, foreign exchange, and options, running a spreadthe year and giving an indication of likely future developments, is betting market, operating the CFTC-regulated exchange Nadex provided in the Chief Executives Report set out on pages and acting as a fixed-odds bookmaker.
The Group hedges 17 to 19. unmatched bets and trades, as considered appropriate, to ensure that it is not unacceptably exposed to material losses.
An analysis of the position of the Group at the year end and key performance indicators is provided in the operating and financial review on pages 20 to 28.
Results The Groups profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to Directors and their interests 78,652,000 2008: 67,288,000, of which 77,986,000 2008: 67,288,000 is attributable to the equity members of Details of the directors who served and their interests in the share the Company.
capital of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 35 to 41.
Dividends The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 11.0 pence per share, amounting to 39,554,000, making totals of 15.0 pence per share and 53,934,000 for the year.
Dividends are recognised in the financial statements in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The amount recognised in the financial statements, as described in note 12, is made up of this years interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, which were both paid during the year.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Report 43 Major interests in shares Notifications have been received by the Company of the following shareholdings of three percent or more of the issued ordinary share capital: As at 17 July 2009 As at 31 May 2009 No.
percentage CVC Capital Partners Limited 30,190,819 8.40% 30,190,819 8.40% Janus Capital Management, LLC 27,922,770 7.77% 25,386,625 7.06% Lion Trust Investment Services Limited 17,907,353 4.98% 17,907,353 4.98% Investec Asset Management Limited 17,863,943 4.97% 17,863,943 4.97% Standard Life Investments Limited 17,564,421 4.88% 17,564,421 4.88% JP Morgan Chase & Co 15,830,307 4.40% 15,830,307 4.40% Legal & General Group plc 14,287,840 3.97% 14,287,840 3.97% Reach Capital Management LLC 11,409,480 3.17% 11,409,480 3.17% Prudential plc 11,066,417 3.08% Additional information for shareholders The following provides additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
Share capital and own shares Details of the Companys equity and preference share capital are given in notes 22 and 21 respectively to the financial statements.
Details of the Groups required regulatory capital are disclosed in note 30 to the financial statements.
The Group purchases its own shares in order to satisfy awards under the Groups share schemes.
Details of the shares held and the amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 23 to the financial statements.
Change of control Following a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, the Groups banking facilities will be cancelled and any obligations will become immediately due and payable.
Branches outside the United Kingdom In line with the stated strategic objectives the Group has branches in a number of overseas jurisdictions including France, Spain, Italy, Germany and Luxembourg.
Supplier payment policy and practice The Company does not incur significant costs and the Group does not follow any stated code on payment practice.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction and to abide by those terms.
Standard terms provide for payment of all invoices within 30 days after the date of the invoice except where different terms have been agreed with the supplier at the outset.
There were six creditor days of suppliers invoices outstanding at the year end 2008: 16 for the Group.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 44 Directors Report Business Standards Risk management We support the high standards of corporate governance The principal activities of the Group outlined above give rise to contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance exposure to financial risks in the ordinary course of business.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 The objective of the risk department is to manage the Groups Combined Code.
financial risk and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in the financial markets on the value of the Groups financial assets The Group has always recognised the need for a high quality and liabilities, on reported profitability and on the cash flows of product and a high standard of client treatment.
standards worldwide, and these standards frequently exceed local regulatory requirements in many of the jurisdictions in The main risks associated with the Groups financial assets and which we operate.
For example, IG defaults individual clients liabilities, as well as the key operational risks faced by the Group to segregated client money accounts and only offers title are set out in note 30 to the financial statements, as are the transfer arrangements to a small number of clients this can be policies agreed by the Board for the management thereof.
contrasted with some of our competitors, who as a default use title transfer arrangements to use clients money for their own purposes.
Furthermore, margin deposited with IG is treated Donations as client money and is segregated from IGs own money on a The Group made no political donations 2008: nil.
made charitable donations of 49,912 in the year 2008: 13,779 The Group believes that quality of order execution is key as follows: to ensuring that clients are treated fairly.
We offer near Gambling Trust 16,908 instantaneous online execution, with 99% of client orders Child Line 7,500 being accepted.
Where possible we source prices from multiple Cancer research 4,440 execution venues to ensure that we offer our clients the most Other 21,064 advantageous price.
IG is the only spread betting and CFD firm in the industry to offer Employee involvement Price Improvement.
This feature of our online trading platform, PureDeal, ensures that, if a price moves significantly in the clients During the year, the policy of providing employees with favour in the fraction of a second between them clicking a trade information about the Group continued through quarterly and it being executed, then we will give them the improved price management forums where line managers are informed of and will not reject the deal.
current developments and encouraged to present suggestions and views of the Groups performance, development and policies.
During the year IG introduced a Close-Out-Monitor system which Line management communicates the points raised in the forum aims to limit potential losses at no extra cost to the client.
This is across the organisation.
available on our Plus and Trader accounts - the default accounts for spread betting and CFD clients.
We also provide a Limited Risk The Groups intranet is used to communicate with staff.
account for less-experienced clients, offering Guaranteed Stops Employees participate directly in the success of the business on all positions so that the maximum possible loss is known at through the Groups performance-related bonus schemes and the outset.
Client services Client service has been a key feature of our commitment to the Corporate and Social responsible treatment of clients.
Our large team of trained and Responsibility dedicated staff delivers a professional and responsive valuebased approach to client service.
Almost 10% of IGs total global In this section, we describe our commitment to responsible staff is engaged in client services.
business conduct during the past year.
Clients of all our FSA-regulated products have the option to The Group is committed to ensuring that interaction with exclude themselves upon request for a minimum period of six employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, society and the wider months.
This is not a regulatory requirement.
This has been a key feature of the IGs values since its inception in 1974.
We also prioritise the security of our clients information and funds and we have recently achieved the ISO 27001 certificate for Information Security.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Report 45 Our graduate recruitment programme intake was 25 in 2008 and Corporate and Social this is expected to be the same in 2009.
The programme involves intensive training over 12 to 18 months.
Responsibility continued Education Equality and Diversity IG is at the forefront of client education in the industry through We are an equal opportunities employer and have extensive its TradeSense training programme: this six-week course is human resource policies in place to ensure that employees available to all clients.
For clients that we feel may not initially can expect to work in an environment free from discrimination have an appropriate level of knowledge and experience with and harassment.
which to understand the risks associated with our products, we The Group gives full consideration to applications for require or recommend depending on experience that they employment from disabled persons where the candidates complete the TradeSense programme.
particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with adequately In 2008, we introduced online seminars which have enabled meeting the requirements of the job.
greater numbers of clients to view seminars they might not have Opportunities are available to disabled employees for training, been able to attend in person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing Workplace employment wherever practicable in the same or alternative IG is a rapidly growing company and provides a fast-moving and position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this aim.
Our employees have pride in what we have achieved and a strong sense of belonging.
Environment This culture is reflected in IG being listed as one of Britains Top As a business which conducts over 90% of its client trades online Employers 2009 by the Corporate Research Foundation, having we do not see ourselves as a significant emitter of harmful performed well in each of the surveyed categories: pay and emissions.
However, we do understand that our operations have benefits, training and development, and corporate culture.
IG an impact on the environment and we are committed to taking was also named as One to Watch in the Sunday Times Best greater consideration of our environmental footprint.
We take steps to minimise the impact of our offices on the All of our employees are offered membership of a generous environment, including the installation of both automated sensor pension scheme, permanent health insurance and death-inlighting and air conditioning which minimise usage when offices service insurance.
During the year we also introduced employee are not in use.
counselling on matters ranging from housing to personal finance.
Another key business change has been our move from daily We also operate schemes to encourage and reward innovation printed statements to email statements.
This has reduced from employees.
Senior management consults with employees paper statements by 75%, which represents more than half a to achieve objectives.
million sheets of quality paper in addition to envelopes and printer cartridges.
Up to 90% of our workforce comprises university graduates and we consider our employees as a great source of talent and With the encouragement of employees we have also improved ideas for generating the future growth of the business.
Investing our recycling facilities, including IT equipment, and shifted from in training and education to equip employees with the skills providing bottled to filtered water.
and capabilities required to unlock their potential is part of the Groups long-term business strategy.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 46 Directors Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Carbon Emissions During the year, the Group recorded the number of kilowatt hours kWh of energy used and business travel by air and road.
Carbon footprint calculations from Carbon Trust: 2 CO e kWh Comment tonnes Scope 1 direct emissions 2.4 9,684 Employee travel by road for one company vehicle Scope 2 indirect emissions 1,816.6 3,382,945 Electricity for UK sites Scope 3 other indirect emissions 584.8 2,386,856 Employee air travel Total 2,403.8 5,779,485 Last year air travel featured significantly as a proportion of total emissions 24%.
This was due mainly to senior-management travel related to the acquisition and integration of FXOnline in Japan, and the re-launch of the US futures exchange Nadex formerly HedgeStreet.
New video conference facilities in all our key global offices will reduce future business travel across the group.
On a global basis, emissions equated to 3.3 tonnes per employee.
Society We are keen to encourage employees to engage in activities that help their development and support local communities.
For example, we match any funds employees have raised for sponsored events.
During the year we matched funding of almost 8,000.
Our Absence Management Policy also offers the opportunity for employees to take up voluntary work, for which IG grants additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched days per annual leave year.
Events since the balance sheet date There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
Annual general meeting The Groups annual general meeting will be held on 6 October 2009.
A separate circular will be sent to all shareholders which details the agenda for the AGM.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 Directors Report 47 Directors statement as to Going concern The directors have prepared the financial statements on a going disclosure of information concern basis which requires the directors to have a reasonable to auditors expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on pages 12 and 13.
The directors have reviewed the Groups processes to control Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys those financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as disclosed auditors, each of these directors confirms that: in note 30 to the financial statements, as well as reviewing the annual budget.
to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is information needed by the Groups As a result of this review the directors do have a reasonable auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue Companys auditors are unaware: and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably financial statements.
be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are On behalf of the Board aware of that information.
Steve Clutton, Finance Director, 21 July 2009 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 48 Directors Report
