IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 32 Corporate Governance The workings of the Board and its Committees continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee considers appointments to the Board and meets as necessary.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill board vacancies and for making recommendations on board composition and balance.
The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the Board or where the appointee is likely to become a board member.
The Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of candidates.
The Committee also ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and to other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments is vested in the Chief Executive.
The membership of these committees was as follows: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Martin Jackson chair Roger Yates chair Jonathan Davie chair Sir Alan Budd Sir Alan Budd Sir Alan Budd Roger Yates Jonathan Davie Martin Jackson Martin Jackson Roger Yates Copies of the terms of reference of these committees can be obtained from the Company Secretary on request and are available in the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Report and Operating and Financial Review include detailed reviews of the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders including presentations by management around the time of the Companys preliminary announcement of the year-end results and at the half year.
These presentations are made available on the Groups website at www.
com which also provides information to shareholders and prospective shareholders.
Feedback is provided to the Board following these investor presentations of any views or concerns expressed by shareholders.
The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors, including the chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, are available at annual general meetings to answer questions.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting will be contained in the notice of the meeting.
Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through other mechanisms for shareholder communication.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director provide feedback to the Board of any views or concerns expressed to them by shareholders.
Internal control and risk management The board of directors has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control at least annually.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, and no significant weaknesses were identified during this review.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee regularly receives and reviews reports on internal control from internal audit and receives quarterly reports from the compliance function.
Executive directors and senior managers are responsible for the day-to-day operation of the Groups system of internal control which aims to provide reasonable assurance over the: accomplishment of business objectives and goals: compliance with policies, plans, procedures, laws and regulations: reliability and integrity of financial and management information: economic and efficient use of resources: and safeguarding of assets.
