IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 20 Group Operating and Financial Review Group Operating and Financial Review for the year ended 31 May 2009 Business objective Introduction The Groups objective is to maximise shareholder value by The Accounting Standards Board issued Reporting Statement: pursuing the following strategies: Operating and Financial Review in January 2006.
This statement does not have mandatory force and is not an accounting Maintaining a leading position in the markets in which the or reporting standard.
The directors have considered the Group operates: recommendations of this reporting statement as appropriate in Continuing to broaden the client base: producing this operating and financial review OFR.
A discussion Expanding the Groups international reach: and of the Groups performance and future prospects has been included in the Chief Executives Report.
Continuing to deliver product and technological innovation.
In applying this framework, the directors believe that they have Business strategies adequately discharged their responsibilities under Section The Chief Executives Report provides an overall assessment of 417 3 of the Companies Act 2006 to provide a balanced and the Groups progress during the year and prospects for the future comprehensive review of the development and performance of with reference to the business strategies outlined below.
Maintaining a leading position in the markets in which the Group operates Nature, objectives and strategies The Group is widely recognised as the market leader in the UK The Groups businesses financial spread betting market.
It also has a market leading The Group has operated in two principal areas of activity position in a number of the countries where it offers CFDs.
The throughout the year: financial and sport.
Groups strategy is to continue to strengthen market position by offering the broadest range of products and by offering quality Financial and speed of execution.
Contracts for Difference CFDs, spread bets and exchange traded futures on equities, equity indices, precious and base metals, soft Continuing to broaden the client base commodities, exchange rates, interest rates and other financial The Group continues to broaden the client base, both directly markets.
Exchange traded options and CFDs and spread bets on and through introducers, from what has historically been a options on certain of these markets.
Financial binaries, including relatively narrow but sophisticated group of predominantly retail exchange traded and OTC binary options and fixed odds bets on clients.
This includes attracting a greater proportion of leisuremany of these markets.
The operation of a regulated futures and oriented clients for the Groups fixed odds offerings and more options exchange.
market professionals and institutional clients for its CFD business.
Further developing the business of market making on betting Sport and financial exchanges, as well as white-labelling opportunities Spread bets and fixed odds bets on sporting and other events where the Groups products are branded and distributed and the operation of an online casino.
in the name of third parties, will extend the reach of the Groups products.
