3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 5 MANAGERS REPORT Against a backdrop of a stabilising global economy and financial markets, the recovery in the Companys performance noted in the interim report accelerated during the second half of 2009, resulting in a strong full year increase in diluted NAV.
The principal driver of performance was a reversal of the negative themes of 2008, namely the credit crisis, falling commodity prices and the decline of cyclical industries such as construction.
Recovery in debt and equity markets allowed companies to raise capital and refinance or renegotiate debt facilities.
Commodity prices also recovered, underpinning improved economics for energy efficiency and recycling businesses.
The decline in construction markets lessened, driving share price performance as investors sought exposure to the next growth cycle.
In addition, strong performance of Asian stocks and the re-emergence of merger and acquisition M&A activity in Environmental Markets also made material contributions to the recovery.
We also chose to hold a relatively underweight exposure to the renewable energy sector.
This benefited performance as these stocks suffered from a lack of project finance, regulatory uncertainty and, in some markets, falling power prices.
Drivers of Environmental Markets in 2009 The fundamental drivers of Environmental Markets remained in place during 2009.
Despite the failure of the Copenhagen climate change conference to produce a legally binding global agreement, there were significant developments in environmental legislation at the national level, with the United States, China and India in particular engaging for the first time and establishing long term targets which should be translated into law in 2010.
The US$500 billion of global stimulus funding targeted at Environmental Markets has also started to flow, with US$100 billion disbursed during 2009 and US$200 billion forecast to flow in 2010.
This is expected to complement legislative targets and to contribute to a resumption of secular growth in the sector.
Since the Companys launch, M&A activity has played a key role in generating long term performance as holdings have been acquired at attractive premiums and related stocks have been rerated.
M&A was largely absent during the financial crisis but re-emerged during 2009, particularly during the second half, with three holdings bid for during the year.
As larger, global companies see value and growth in Environmental Markets, M&A activity is expected to accelerate during 2010.
Development of Companies and Markets by Sub-Sector In recent years, Impax Asset Management has been working in collaboration with FTSE to develop the comprehensive Environmental Markets Classification System EMCS, which is now used to define the FTSE Environmental Opportunities Index Series.
The classification system aims to enable investors globally to clearly identify and measure investment opportunities in Environmental Markets.
The EMCS further breaks down the Impax classifications of Alternative Energy and Energy Efficiency Energy : Water Treatment and Pollution Control Water : Waste Technologies and Resource Management Waste and we have analysed key developments during the year using this more granular breakdown.
5 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 6 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Alternative Energy and Energy Efficiency 47.4% portfolio weighting i Renewable and Alternative Energy RAE 21.8% weighting The RAE sector underperformed the portfolio average for the second year in succession due to ongoing project finance scarcity, power price declines, and overcapacity in selected industries.
Nevertheless, the overall legislative environment remains positive: in June 2010, European member states will present plans to attain the Union-wide 2020 renewables target.
In the United States, climate change and energy legislation has been delayed as Congress has been preoccupied with healthcare and financial reform.
However, President Obama has recently reiterated his commitment to the legislation and it seems likely that a bill including long-term support for renewable and energy efficiency will be under consideration in 2010.
In the wind sector, Global Wind Energy Council figures indicate that the worlds wind power capacity grew by 31% in 2009, showing remarkable resilience despite numerous challenges.
In the United States, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Acts emphasis on supporting renewable energy projects was successful in keeping the United States at world number one for cumulative installed wind power capacity.
However, China became the worlds largest wind power market in 2009, doubling its wind generation capacity over the year.
The Chinese government took further steps in 2009 to limit CO emissions, announcing a commitment to reduce carbon emissions 2 intensity by 40-45% from 2005 levels by 2020, and introducing improved incentives for wind and solar power.
The European wind market grew to a lesser extent, and European wind-related stocks were some of the weakest contributors to performance with Gamesa wind turbines, Spain and Vestas wind turbines, Denmark underperforming.
On the upside, key contributors were Canadian Hydro Developers wind IPP, Canada, which was acquired by Transalta utility, Canada and China High Speed Transmission Equipment wind components, Hong Kong which benefited from strong growth in the Asian wind market.
In the solar sector, where we continue to maintain only a small exposure, the industry has experienced continued upheaval.
European players have faced aggressive competition from lower-cost Chinese manufacturers, and regulatory uncertainty has been an issue, especially in major European markets such as Germany, Spain and Italy.
Long-term, we believe that the sustainable growth prospects of the industry remain positive as the economics of the technology become increasingly attractive.
We will consequently look to exploit share price weakness to add holdings in companies with significant long-term competitive advantages.
During the year we increased our holding in Vestas and added Hansen Transmissions wind turbine gearboxes, UK in anticipation of a recovery in wind markets in 2010 11.
We sold out of Pyeong San wind turbine components, Korea, switching into its competitor Taewoong also Korean.
ii Energy Efficiency EE 25.6% weighting EE markets recovered well in 2009 and made a strong contribution to performance during the year.
Stocks in the United States benefited from the steady deployment of stimulus funds into initiatives such as the smart grid technologies and techniques that make the grid work more efficiently, and energy efficient goods and appliances.
In the European Union, lawmakers reached a compromise on the recast Energy Performance of Buildings Directive, agreeing that all new buildings will have to comply with high energy performance standards and source a significant share of their energy requirements from renewables from 2020.
Although construction activity 6 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 7 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED levels remain depressed, data show that the environment is improving, which has benefited Kingspan buildings insulation, Ireland, a top performer for 2009.
In the transport sector, there was significant publicity surrounding the potential growth of the electric vehicle market following the listing of A123 lithium ion batteries, United States and a number of hybrid and electric model announcements from major automobile manufacturers.
Investment in electric cars is being driven by tightening emissions regulations, concerns over energy security and enthusiasm for the technology in China, already the worlds largest car market.
Industry forecasts suggest that by 2020 about 10% of new cars could be either entirely battery driven vehicles or plug-in hybrids.
As many of the businesses involved in electric vehicles are not yet profitable, we maintain a cautious approach to this market looking for proven technologies at a reasonable valuation.
Other key contributors to performance were Epistar light-emitting diodes LEDs, Taiwan benefiting from the adoption of LED technology in new markets, such as television backlights, and Power Integrations power efficiency, United States which benefited from tightening energy efficiency standards in the United States market, particularly California.
Conversely, Itron advanced metering, United States disappointed due to increased competition in the smart grid technology space, concerns about the scalability of their technology and the speed of roll out of projects.
Portfolio movements included the addition of Zumtobel LEDs, Austria who stand to benefit from current strong growth in LED lighting markets and an eventual recovery in commercial construction.
We took profit in Regal Beloit electric motors, US following strong performance.
Waste Technologies and Resource management portfolio weighting 30.6% i Waste Management & Technologies WMT 26.8% weighting The WMT sector slightly outperformed over the year, recovering from the impact of decreased waste volumes, volatile commodity prices and slowing industrial activity experienced in 2008.
Vehicle scrappage schemes continued to boost the automobile sector worldwide, notably in Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States and France.
The schemes have continued to benefit vehicle recycling businesses, and to encourage the purchase of more fuel efficient vehicles, and LKQ auto parts recycling, United States was one of the top performers for 2009.
Also in the United States, the prospect of tightening hazardous waste legislation related to coal ash a by-product of combustion in power stations has created investor interest in companies such as Clean Harbors hazardous waste.
The recovery in global commodity prices helped metals recyclers Sims Group Australia, and Metalico US, as well as Lee and Man recycled cartonboard, Hong Kong which was the top performer in the portfolio for the year.
With strengthening credit markets, M&A has returned to the sector.
For example, Energy Developments waste-to-energy, Australia received a conditional takeover offer from a private equity fund, and Shanks waste management, United Kingdom is currently subject to a bid by Carlyle Group, another private equity investor.
During the year we participated in the recapitalisation of Transpacific Industries integrated waste management, Australia alongside Warburg Pincus, a respected venture capital fund and took profit in Lee & Man following strong performance.
7 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 8 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED ii Environmental Support Services ESS 3.8% weighting Global stimulus funding announcements were an important driver of the support services sector in 2009.
However, delays in the deployment of funds in the United States have disappointed investors, and environmental consultancies in particular have suffered, contributing to ESS sector underperformance.
We remain confident that much of this money will flow in the near future, and that portfolio holdings Stantec Canada and ICF International United States are well positioned to benefit.
The outcome of the United Nations Copenhagen conference in December 2009 left the future unclear for carbon markets post-2012, when the existing Kyoto Protocol expires.
Although the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme will continue until 2020, the future of global demand for carbon credits and thus the carbon price remains uncertain.
Key portfolio movements included the addition of ICF International as a new holding, and a reduction in the weighting in Stantec.
Water Treatment and Pollution Control 22.0% portfolio weighting i Water Infrastructure & Technologies WIT 16.5% weighting Water scarcity persisted as an important issue in 2009 following a study by the World Bank that predicted a need for US$50-60 billion of annual investment between now and 2030 in order to avoid global water shortages with serious economic and environmental consequences.
In China, the government announced plans to use stimulus funding to speed up a water diversion scheme to ease chronic shortages in Beijing and other parts of northern China.
Meanwhile, in California, a state of emergency was declared due to drought, and after years of gridlock California lawmakers reached an historic agreement to address the vulnerability of the states water supply.
As predicted at the end of 2008, stimulus funding allocated to water infrastructure has taken some time to flow through to the revenues of investible companies, particularly in the United States, where stocks involved in this market such as Mueller Water water infrastructure, United States underperformed during the year.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that just 4% of the US$6 billion of stimulus money allocated to the water sector was spent in 2009.
However, industry sources indicate that stimulus-related business activity rose in the fourth quarter, and municipal spending on water infrastructure is expected to increase with the start of the construction season in March 2010.
China Everbright International waste and water infrastructure, Hong Kong outperformed on a steady stream of project announcements that were supported by the Chinese stimulus focus on infrastructure development.
In addition, BWT water technology, Austria and Amiad Filtration water treatment, Israel United Kingdom outperformed during 2009.
It was encouraging to see the return of M&A to the sector with the takeover of Christ Water water treatment, Austria by GLV Canada.
During the year Nalco water treatment chemicals, US was added as a new holding while the holding in Kurita water treatment technology, Japan was reduced.
ii Pollution Control PC 5.5% weighting The PC segment of the portfolio recovered in line with the portfolio average, supported by tightening environmental legislation.
In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency 8 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 9 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED declared that CO should be considered as dangerous to human health under the Clean Air Act, 2 thus clearing the way for the Agency to regulate the gas itself and bypass Congress in the event that climate change legislation is delayed.
In China, attempts to curb the countrys drastic pollution problems continued with the adoption of government policy of shutting down outdated industrial plants and inefficient small-scale power plants.
The best performers during the year were Horiba testing and monitoring, Japan which benefited from an anticipated cyclical recovery in the automotive and semiconductor markets, and Dionex testing and monitoring, United States due to strong growth in Asian markets.
Changes to the portfolio included profit-taking in Dionex and adding to our holding in Horiba.
Portfolio Activity and Current Structure excluding unquoted companies The Company started the year with 88 listed companies.
Since that time we have sold out of 12 companies and we have invested in 11 new companies.
As a result the Company had investments in a total of 87 listed companies on 31 December 2009.
We continue to favour profitable companies, which represented 93.0% of the portfolio at year end, a figure that is unchanged from last year.
The portfolio remains diversified by subsector, with 21.8% invested in RAE, 25.6% in EE, 16.5% in WIT, 5.5% in PC, 26.8% in WMT and 3.8% in ESS.
Notwithstanding the change in classification, the sector allocations remain consistent with last years levels.
In terms of company size, at year end 6.0% of the portfolio was invested in micro caps with a market capitalisation of less than 100 million, 47.0% in companies between 100 million and 1 billion and 42.8% in companies above 1 billion.
The Company has systematically increased its exposure to Asian markets over the last two years in order to take advantage of superior growth opportunities in this region.
This is reflected in the increase in weighting in the Companys Rest of the World exposure from 14.0% last year to 20.1%.
The remaining funds are invested 43.3% in Europe and 36.6% in North America.
Unquoted Companies Investments in unquoted companies represented 4.2% of the portfolio as of 31 December 2009 equal to 16.3 million.
2009 has seen the most challenging business climate for unquoted companies for a very long time, with normal markets for debt and new equity virtually closed.
Our focus during the year was therefore to support portfolio companies through these extremely difficult funding conditions.
One portfolio company, RecovCo, was forced into administration with a loss to IEM during the year of 0.1 million and a total loss of just under 1 million.
The company recycled aluminium, selling largely to the French automotive market, and the collapse in both volume and price made it uneconomic to continue trading.
Despite these challenges, we are pleased to report a significant recovery in the unquoted investments during the 4th quarter of 2009, with New Earth Solutions waste technology, United Kingdom, Emergya Wind Technologies EWT, Netherlands and Nordic Windpower United States all raising new funds to support their business development.
During the year, IEM completed follow-on investments into EWT, Nordic and Ensyn a secondary purchase.
9 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 10 MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Outlook for 2010 Following the past two years of high volatility and unprecedented economic upheaval, we are encouraged by the resilience of the Companys long term investment thesis.
Environmental policy and legislation continues to strengthen, the costs of key technologies in sectors such as renewable energy, energy efficiency and water recycling have fallen, and the ongoing trend towards liberalisation of basic services is now being extended to the Asia-Pacific region.
Over the last couple of years we have felt it appropriate to adjust the Companys exposure to different environmental sub-sectors depending on their sensitivity to the economic cycle.
During 2008, IEM maintained a higher exposure to defensive areas while during 2009 we have benefitted from the strong performance of early cycle companies.
In the current environment we feel that the cyclical exposure of companies is less important than the bottom-up stock-picking through the fundamental analysis that has always been our focus.
At the time of writing, the valuation of the Companys portfolio has stabilised at a level that is slightly below the historic range 18-22x earnings, while market analysts anticipate earnings expectations will recover quickly to the long-term average level of greater than 20%.
The recent quarterly results season has seen our companies continuing to surpass earnings expectations and start to report a return to organic revenue growth, giving us a justifiably positive outlook for the Company.
We will continue to post monthly updates on sector news and on the Companys performance at www.
Impax Asset Management Limited 24 March 2010 10 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
