3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 12 TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2009 China Everbright International Hong Kong 2.5% 2008: 1.1% China Everbright International is primarily engaged in environmental protection project investments in China, such as waste-to-energy, solid waste disposal, and water treatment.
Operations are structured around four segments: environmental energy, environmental water, environmental construction and environmental technology.
China Everbright International has a sound track record in both the wastewater and waste-to-energy businesses, and as such is well positioned to secure new projects.
The company continues to benefit from the Chinese governments strong commitment to tackle pollution in key provinces.
com Telvent United States 2.5% 2008: 1.6% Telvent is a global IT solutions and business information services provider that helps to improve the efficiency, safety and security of the worlds leading companies.
Telvent serves the energy, transportation, agricultural and environmental sectors, helping to manage energy resources more efficiently, reduce traffic congestion, optimise the water cycle, and monitor critical infrastructures.
In the United States, the company is well positioned to benefit from the smart grid stimulus programme.
US$1.5 billion of the US$3.4 billion in funding already announced is going to Telvents existing customers.
Highway investment in the United States is also positive for the companys sustainable transport solutions division.
Telvent is expanding in Europe, and seeking organic growth opportunities in Latin America.
com Itron Inc. United States 2.4% 2008: 2.7% Itron is the worlds leading provider of intelligent metering, data collection and utility software solutions.
Nearly 8,000 utilities in more than 80 locations globally use the technology to optimise the delivery and use of energy and water.
The company employs a number of key technologies including automated meter reading AMR, energy management systems and transmission and distribution software.
Itron has built up a strong position through organic growth and acquisitions, and has a 50% market share in the United States and Canada and a 30% share worldwide.
The market opportunity in AMR alone is potentially huge: of the 2.65 billion meters installed worldwide, just 8% are automated.
Funds from the US economic stimulus programme focused on the smart grid and water infrastructure, and legislation such as the EU directive to replace 80% of electric meters with smart meters by 2020, are benefiting the Company.
com Pall Corp United States 2.3% 2008: 2.8% Pall is a filtration and fluid management specialist, solving complex contamination, separations, purification and detection problems for diverse customers.
These solutions enable customers to remove pathogens from water and food, minimise waste, and in some cases develop breakthrough technologies.
Palls business mix is considerably diversified, helping to protect it from exposure to any individual industry or economy.
The company has a reputation for product innovation, aggressive geographical expansion and for targeting high value added niches.
As with all filtration businesses, Pall has a substantial replacement parts business, which has defensive characteristics in times of economic uncertainty.
Approximately 75% of company sales are of consumables and services, where margins are higher than for fixed equipment remaining 25% sales.
The company is well positioned to take advantage of global drivers such as increasing energy and water needs, environmental awareness, emerging pathogens, customer innovation and regulatory requirements.
Pall continues to expand into higher-growth regions such as South America, Eastern Europe and Asia.
com 12 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 13 TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS CONTINUED Abengoa Spain 2.1% 2008: 1.9% Abengoa is a technology company that applies innovative solutions for sustainable development in the infrastructure, environment and energy sectors.
The company is one of the global leaders in bioethanol and is the only producer present in the three key markets Europe, US and Brazil.
It is also a global technological leader in solar thermoelectric energy and desalination projects.
Abengoa is geographically diversified, with a presence in over 70 countries, and in recent years has moved away from its traditional engineering business into bioenergy, environmental services, IT solutions and solar energy.
The companys substantial research and development effort, coupled with its engineering capabilities, differentiate it from other renewable energy players and should help it consolidate its market position.
With a strong management track record, and solid financial position Abengoa presents a compelling investment opportunity.
com Clean Harbors United States 2.1% 2008: 2.8% Clean Harbors is North Americas leading provider of environmental and hazardous waste management services.
With a presence in over 175 locations, including over 50 waste management facilities, the company provides services to over 50,000 corporate and public entities.
The core United States business also benefits from a high market share of disposal facilities, which is expected to provide pricing power.
The company should also profit from the gradual closure of industrial customers in-house disposal facilities, which represent a significant proportion of the market today but are becoming uneconomical due to their inability to comply with increasingly stringent environmental regulations.
Clean Harbors continues to look to expand market share in North America, and the recent acquisition of Eveready, a Canadian industrial services company, offers further growth potential.
com Ormat Technologies United States Israel 2.1% 2008: 2.8% Ormat is a leading player in the geothermal power market.
The company has a dual strategy of owning and operating power plants with ca.
500 MW installed generating capacity and a sizeable development pipeline, and selling geothermal generation equipment to third parties.
Geothermal power, which harnesses the heat of the earth, has huge potential.
The company estimates an immediate global potential of 148,000 MW, compared to the current installed capacity of 9,500 MW.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology estimates that the potential of geothermal energy in the United States alone is 100,000 MW if the development of enhanced geothermal systems is successful.
A largely untapped resource, the ability to deliver base load power, low technology risks and compelling economics, should drive strong growth in geothermal power.
Legislative support is also strong: state renewable energy targets in the United States encourage geothermal development and Federal support has been increasingly favourable.
As the market leader in this segment, Ormat should be a key beneficiary of this growth.
com 13 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text:3174 Impax R&A 2009 Text 22 3 10 15:23 Page 14 TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS CONTINUED LKQ United States 2.0% 2008: 2.1% LKQ is the largest provider of recycled light vehicle original equipment manufacturer OEM products in the United States, with a strategic distribution network across the country.
It employs 9,600 people across 280 facilities and generated revenues of US$1.9 billion in 2008.
The insurance industrys focus on reducing claim costs provides favourable industry dynamics for LKQs business.
This cost cutting initiative, plus the growing availability of recycled OEM parts has seen the market share of the alternative parts in the mechanical replacement market rise from 20% to 80% in the last 30 years.
Collision replacement parts are poised for similar growth and have increased their market share by 1% per annum, reaching 32% of collision repair costs in 2008.
LKQ is well positioned to take advantage of the trends supporting industry growth, including high frequency of collisions, high cost of vehicle repair and the desire of insurance companies to reduce their claims expenses.
The business has benefited from good pricing power, the recovery in commodity prices and the United States vehicle scrappage scheme.
com Shanks Group United Kingdom 2.0% 2008: 0.9% Shanks is Europes largest listed independent waste management company operating in the Netherlands, Belgium, United Kingdom and Canada.
The company provides its customers with sustainable solutions to their waste and environmental obligations.
Against a background of compelling European Union-wide legislative drivers, the market is shifting to better capitalized players such as Shanks that have the capacity to meet the high capital costs of recovery, recycling and treatment facilities.
The company has a strong pipeline of Private Finance Initiative bids, and organic processing and recycling projects.
Over recent years, many of Shanks competitors have been acquired by private equity groups and infrastructure funds, and in December 2009 Shanks was approached by a private equity group with a potential takeover bid.
Confidential discussions are continuing, which may lead to a formal offer being made.
co. uk Chloride Group United Kingdom 2.0% 2008: 2.0% Chloride is the leading European specialist in the power protection marketplace.
The companys range of uninterruptible power supplies UPS and software protects mission-critical applications in a variety of sectors worldwide.
As these UPS markets continue to grow, Chloride is also gaining market share through a combination of superior technology and an innovative service-oriented product offering.
Asia represents a key area for growth and now represents just under 20% of sales.
Chlorides strong technology and market position led to a bid approach by Emerson the United States market leader in 2008 at a significant premium.
Although this bid was rejected, Chloride remains an attractive acquisition target, and, with M&A activity on the rise, the company may be subject to further bids.
com 14 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 3174 Proof Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
