Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14 Our progress Our priorities remain unchanged Priorities Market drivers and opportunities 3 Although well diversified and with a defensive bias, our portfolio is not immune Monitoring to the global economic downturn.
The severity and duration of the recession has and managing the portfolio impacted the trading environment of our portfolio companies.
3 The decline and subsequent turbulence of equity markets has significantly reduced Maintaining a exit activity from private equity portfolios.
As a result, we received fewer early strong balance sheet repayments, which will limit the investment capacity of the balance sheet.
3 Given the reduced yield across other asset classes, fund investors are increasingly Continuing seeking alternative investment opportunities that offer a higher yield.
to raise third party funds 3 As a listed investment firm and third party fund manager, we are committed Further to providing high quality service to our investors.
strengthening our fund management franchise 3 The dislocation in the credit markets has given rise to unprecedented investment Investing cautiously in opportunities in the secondary market for buyout debt.
the secondary 3 There has been a sharp reduction in the number of European credit fund managers markets who have the ability to raise new capital to take advantage of opportunities in the secondary market.
3 A companys scale, processes and operational efficiency may provide an Enhancing important competitive advantage, given the complexities and challenges of operational excellence the business environment.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 15 Progress 2009 Priorities 2010 3 Broadly resilient portfolio at the March 2009 quarterly portfolio review: 3 Closely monitor and proactively manage the portfolio.
71 per cent of the companies, including most of our largest assets, 3 Manage and restructure weak assets to maximise recovery.
were performing at, or above, the prior year level.
3 Support assets with a strong underlying business model but an 3 Default rate of 4.8 per cent for the year: continuing to outperform the inappropriate capital structure for the current economic climate.
3 Outperform the market by maintaining low default rates and 3 Established a dedicated internal team of restructuring specialists maximising recoveries.
to provide advice and support to our local investment teams.
3 Protected the value of our portfolio, through the early identification and management of the weak assets.
3 Introduced a technology platform to support our investment teams in the monitoring and management of the portfolio and funds.
3 Continued alignment of corporate and employee objectives with the monitoring and management of our portfolio.
3 Extension of 150m tranche of existing debt facility for two years to 3 Maximise the liquidity of our balance sheet by extending the maturity April 2013, showing the support of lenders.
of existing debt facilities, to maintain our financial strength through the current cycle and beyond.
3 Our balance sheet remains liquid with 312m of undrawn bank facilities and only 20m of debt repayment due in the year 3 Maintain a satisfactory level of headroom for our debt covenants and to 31 March 2010. free up capital by actively managing exits.
3 Continued to operate well within our debt covenants.
3 Funds under management have increased to 8.5bn.
3 Reach final close on ICG Recovery Fund 2008.
3 Closed our second Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific mezzanine 3 Further enhance the service we offer to our investors.
fund with US$600m of third party commitments, twice the size 3 Maintain dialogue and relationships with potential fund investors of first fund.
who have an interest in ICG and its fund offerings.
3 Launched the ICG Recovery Fund 2008 and have received new third party fund commitments of 275m.
3 Raised 157m of third party commitments on the first close of our new ICG Minority Partners Fund 2008.
3 Established relationships with new and potential fund investors in Europe, the US and the Middle East.
3 Established an Investor Management team, which will work closely with fund managers to coordinate and streamline information and activities with existing and potential investors.
3 Invested in the senior debt securities of some 3 Selectively invest in buyout debt in the secondary market.
solid companies, at an attractive discount to par.
3 Introduced a technology platform to further enhance 3 Optimise the use of the technology platform.
operational excellence, and to support our investment teams and portfolio managers.
