qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 30 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Principal risks and uncertainties Electronic Communications Regulation continued EC law The Electronic Communications Directives The Group, in common with other service providers that include third party The regulation of electronic communications networks and services and services which the Group retails, relies on intellectual property and proprietary associated facilities is governed by a series of EC Directives, including the rights, including in respect of programming content, which may not be Framework Directive, the Access Directive, the Authorisation Directive and the adequately protected under current laws or which may be subject to Universal Services Directive together, the Electronic Communications unauthorised use.
The Electronic Communications Directives, which came into force in July 2003, are designed to create a harmonised system of regulation across the The Groups services largely comprise content in which it owns, or has licensed, European Union EU.
the intellectual property rights, delivered through a variety of media, including broadcast programming, interactive television services, and the internet.
The The Electronic Communications Directives regulate the provision of Group relies on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to communications services including telephony and broadband services: they do establish and protect its rights over this content.
However, the Group cannot be not regulate the editorial control or content of television broadcasting services certain that its rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that but do cover, inter alia, the networks and transmission services which are it will successfully renew its rights.
Third parties may be able to copy, infringe involved in the broadcasting of such television services as well as the provisions or otherwise profit from the Groups rights or content which it owns or licenses, of various services and facilities associated with the operation of digital without the Groups, or the rights holders, authorisation.
These unauthorised television platforms, including our digital satellite platform.
activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet.
In addition, the lack of internet-specic legislation relating to trademark and copyright protection The Electronic Communications Directives replace an earlier set of instruments creates an additional challenge for the Group in protecting its rights relating to which provided for a regime for the licensing of persons engaged in the its online businesses and other digital technology rights.
provision of relevant telecommunications activities.
Under the Electronic Communications Directives, Member States are required to abandon such The Group generates wholesale revenue principally from one customer.
licensing regimes, and to adopt a system whereby any person is generally authorised to provide electronic communications networks and or services The Group derives its wholesale revenue principally from one customer, VM.
28 February 2007, the Groups wholesale supply arrangement to supply VM with the Sky Basic Channels expired, though VM continued to carry versions of all the Such persons may provide electronic communications networks and services Sky Premium Channels.
On 4 November 2008, the Group announced that it had without being subject to detailed regulatory rules.
Member States national entered into a new agreement to supply VM with certain of the Sky Basic regulatory authorities NRAs may apply, as conditions of the general Channels to take effect on 13 November 2008 and run until 12 June 2011. authorisation, only minimal general conditions necessary to achieve certain key Economic or market factors, regulatory intervention, or a change in strategy objectives of the Electronic Communications Directives e. g. the availability of relating to the distribution of the Groups channels, may adversely influence the adequate directory inquiries services: the ability for consumers to maintain an Groups wholesale revenue and other revenue which the Group receives from existing telephone number, even if they switch from one provider to another: VM in connection with supply of the Sky Premium and Basic Channels which and fair treatment of consumers.
may negatively affect the Groups business.
Beyond such minimal general conditions, NRAs may impose additional The Group is subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
obligations on persons providing specic kinds of electronic communications networks, services, or facilities only where such obligations are specifically The Group is party to a number of medium and long-term agreements and other envisaged by the Electronic Communications Directives, and are justied and arrangements including in respect of programming and transmission, for appropriate to allow third party access to particular network infrastructure, example, its transponder agreements which impose financial and other services, or facilities or where the NRA has determined that one or more obligations upon the Group.
If the Group is unable to perform any of its persons active in a particular market enjoy significant market power SMP obligations under these agreements and or arrangements, it could have a and that the imposition of additional obligations on such persons is justied and material adverse effect on the Groups business.
appropriate to avoid adverse outcomes.
Government regulation The Electronic Communications Directives envisage that such ex ante rules The sectors in which we operate are subject to both sector-specic regulation, i. e. rules imposed in anticipation of an adverse outcome, rather than by way of in particular regulation relating to the electronic communications and ex post remedy should be limited to what is necessary, and used only where broadcasting sectors, and general competition anti-trust law.
an NRA has determined them to be appropriate to restrain the conduct of persons enjoying SMP which is equivalent to the competition law concept of The regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and dominance or where the Directives otherwise specifically mandate the broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on European Community EC imposition of ex ante rules.
law comprised in various EC Directives.
A Directive is an instrument of EC law which is addressed to Member States of the European Union, and requires them to adopt Accordingly, the Electronic Communications Directives require NRAs in each of national legislation to give effect to its objectives, whilst leaving the precise manner the EU Member States to carry out periodic reviews of competition in relevant and form of the national legislation to the discretion of the Member State.
electronic communications markets and, where a communications provider is found to have significant market power in a relevant market, to impose appropriate regulatory obligations.
The European Commission also plays a formal role in the market review process undertaken by NRAs.
30 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 31 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% In November 2005, the European Commission commenced a review of the Premium Rate and Number Translation Services: a Code of Practice on dealing functioning of the Electronic Communications Directives.
The European with customer complaints: and a Code of Practice relating to the provision of Sky Commission published draft legislative proposals for modifying the existing Broadband.
framework in November 2007, with a view to the implementation of a revised framework within the Member States in 2011.
The Commissions proposals for Access-related conditions reform are still being discussed and their formal adoption will be subject to the Ofcom also has the power under Section 45 of the Communications Act to conciliation procedure in Autumn 2009 the conciliation procedure applies if the impose so-called access-related conditions, including conditions relating to Council does not approve all the amendments of the European Parliament conditional access services.
adopted at its second reading.
The main areas where the European Commission has indicated that changes are needed to the existing regulatory framework are: Conditional Access Services Conditions Access-related conditions have been imposed on our subsidiary Sky Subscribers putting in place an effective market-oriented strategy for spectrum Services Limited SSSL in relation to the provision of conditional access management in Europes internal market: services.
These conditions include: regulating less, but more effectively, by phasing out ex-ante regulation in a number of markets currently regulated:a requirement to provide conditional access services upon request, on fair streamlining the market review procedure to make it faster, less burdensome and reasonable terms: and better focused on real bottlenecks:where a broadcaster in receipt of conditional access services from SSSL also consolidating the single market, by ensuring that EU rules and remedies are provides programme services to providers of other electronic communications applied consistently across all EU Member States: networks e. g. cable operators, a requirement to cooperate with providers of preserving and enhancing consumer protection and user rights: and such other electronic communications networks so that such providers are enhancing the security and reliability of European communications networks.
able to transcontrol the process of changing a conditional access system and re-transmit the programme services: an obligation to keep separate financial accounts regarding activities as UK law provider of conditional access services: The Electronic Communications Directives have primarily been implemented in where conditional access products and systems are the subject of intellectual the UK by the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act.
The property rights, a requirement to make such products and systems available Communications Act is enforced by the UKs NRA, Ofcom.
upon reasonable terms and at reasonable charges: and a requirement not to discriminate unduly against particular persons or General Conditions of Entitlement against a particular description of persons.
As noted above, the Electronic Communications Directives provide that anyone wishing to provide an electronic communications network or service should be Currently, only SSSL is subject to access-related conditions imposed by Ofcom generally authorised to do so, without requiring any licence or other prior relating to conditional access services.
However, Ofcom has proposed applying approval.
This general authorisation is subject in the UK to the General identical conditions to Top Up TV Limited in respect of conditional access Conditions of Entitlement General Conditions.
The General Conditions were services provided via the DTT platform, on which it commenced a public adopted under Section 45 of the Communications Act and apply to anyone who consultation in early 2007. is providing an electronic communications network or service.
Continued licence conditions relating to EPGs and access control services The Group is subject to the General Conditions in relation to its broadband Prior to the entry into force of the new regulatory regime instituted by the internet access and public telephony services, including: Electronic Communications Directives, and implemented in the UK by the Communications Act, the Group operated under a number of class licences a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access the emergency services: issued under the Telecommunications Act 1984.
These class licences have a requirement to support number portability for customers wishing to switch largely been revoked.
However, certain provisions in these class licences have to or from another network provider: continued in force as Continuation Notices issued under Paragraph 18 of a requirement that customers are offered contracts that satisfy certain Schedule 9 of the Communications Act, including in particular conditions minimum standards: relating to the provision of electronic programme guides EPGs and access a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access directory enquiry and control services for digital transmissions.
operator assistance services: a requirement to facilitate the migration by customers between broadband We are required under a continuation notice to provide EPG services to other service providers: broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour a requirement to publish up-to-date price and tariff information: related companies.
Ofcom has consulted on replacing this continuation notice a requirement to provide accurate billing, including itemisation on request: and with authorisation conditions under the Communications Act, the deadline for a requirement to publish codes of practice concerning, among other things, comments on the consultation document having been in March 2004.
Ofcom has the services provided, the handling of customer complaints and sales and yet to replace this continuation notice following this consultation and therefore marketing.
the continuation notice still applies.
As a network operator, the Group is also subject to requirements to negotiate SSSL, is currently designated a regulated supplier in respect of its activities in network interconnection, to comply with relevant compulsory standards and to providing access control services to third parties on our DTH platform and it is, take all reasonable steps to maintain to the greatest possible extent the proper among other things, subject to the obligation to provide such access control and effective functioning of its public telephone network.
services on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour related companies.
This designation, set out in a continuation notice, will The Group has published a Code of Practice dealing with our Sky Talk products, remain in place for as long as SSSL is considered to have SMP.
In November services and customer care procedures: a Code of Practice concerning the sales 2003, Oftel commenced a review under the Communications Act to determine and marketing practices for the Sky Talk telephony service: a Code of Practice for British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 31 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 32 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Government regulation therefore given priority to the market investigation and expects to restart the platform review once there is greater clarity as to the likely range of outcomes of continued the market investigation.
At this stage, the Group is unable to determine whether whether any provider of access control services has or, in the case of SSSL, Ofcoms platform review will have a material effect on the Group.
The deadline for comments on the consultation document was in January 2004.
Ofcom has yet to publish its conclusions to this SMP Conditions consultation: in the meantime, SSSL continues to be subject to the regulatory In common with all other operators of xed public electronic communications regime under this continuation notice.
networks in the UK, Easynet has been determined to have SMP in the market for xed geographic call termination services on its own network i. e. services Ofcoms Guidelines and Explanatory Statement for the Provision of Technical allowing calls originating on another network to be terminated on Easynets Platform Services xed network.
A specic condition has been imposed on Easynet pursuant to Effective from 1 January 2007, Ofcom adopted revised guidelines on how, in the Section 45 of the Communications Act requiring it to provide call termination to event of a dispute or complaint, it would normally interpret the requirement on all public communications providers who reasonably request it on fair and Sky to ensure that its terms, conditions and charges for the provision of reasonable terms, conditions and charges.
technical platform services are fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory TPS Guidelines.
The term technical platform services is used to refer collectively The Group benets from SMP conditions imposed on BT in other relevant to conditional access, electronic programme guide listings services, and access markets.
These include conditions requiring BT to provide LLU services and control services.
wholesale broadband access services, which the Group uses to provide broadband services to its customers, as well as wholesale line rental, which the The TPS Guidelines set out general principles that Ofcom indicates it would Group uses to provide line rental services to its customers.
The conditions apply in assessing whether the Group has complied with the relevant regulatory imposed on BT in these markets include a requirement to provide network conditions requiring it to provide technical platform services on fair, reasonable access on reasonable request, a requirement not to discriminate unduly and a and non-discriminatory terms.
These general principles can be summarised as requirement to publish information about its prices, terms and conditions.
follows: In May 2008, Ofcom published the final statement in its review of the wholesale the costs that Sky should be entitled to recover from TPS Customers should broadband access markets.
In this statement Ofcom announced the removal of be restricted to costs which it reasonably, necessarily and efficiently incurs in regulation of wholesale broadband access in certain areas of the UK, areas which the provision of TPS to those customers or in order to develop and operate Ofcom believes are now served by effective competition.
As a result, wholesale the digital satellite platform: regulation has been lifted in those parts of the country in which four or more Sky should be entitled to recover its allowable costs and make a risk adjusted wholesale broadband providers operate and where no single company has SMP.
return on its investment: costs should only be recovered from those customers that directly cause the In March 2009, Ofcom published a consultation document, opening its review of costs to be incurred, or that benefit from the costs being incurred: and xed narrowband retail services.
In the consultation document Ofcom proposes where costs incurred are of benefit to more than one TPS Customer then they that UK retail markets, with the exception of Hull, are now largely competitive and should be recovered from each TPS Customer in a way that takes due account that BT no longer has SMP in retail xed narrowband telephone lines for business of the benets derived by TPS Customers from those costs being incurred.
and residential consumers and retail xed narrowband calls for business and residential consumers.
Ofcom proposes that, as a result, existing SMP regulation The TPS Guidelines also contain guidance on how the incremental benets which requires BT not to discriminate unduly and to publish information about its that a TPS Customer receives from the provision of its chosen mix of technical relevant retail prices, terms and conditions should be lifted which would allow, it platform services can be measured.
Ofcom notes, however, that the Group may considers, BT to bundle xed narrowband products with broadband and television choose to adopt different methods for assessing such incremental benets and services, The Group has submitted a response to the consultation.
characterisation of the costs of various technical platform services, which Ofcom acknowledges it may also consider to be consistent with the relevant regulatory The Group also benets from SMP conditions imposed on National Grid Wireless conditions.
formerly Crown Castle and Arqiva formerly ntl:Broadcast in relation to the provision of wholesale broadcasting transmission services, which the Group via The TPS Guidelines also state that an existing or prospective TPS Customer the provision by NGW of a managed transmission service uses to broadcast its should be provided with sufficient information to allow it to determine the TPS services on the DTT platform.
The conditions imposed include a requirement to charges that it would expect to pay without having to enter into a commercial provide Network Access to masts and sites on reasonable request, a negotiation with Sky.
Since December 2006, the Group has therefore published requirement not to unduly discriminate and a requirement to provide Network a rate card setting out the charges payable for technical platform services.
Access on cost oriented terms.
In 2007 NGW was acquired by Macquarie UK Broadcast Ventures Limited which also owns Arqiva.
Ofcom Review of Wholesale Digital Television Broadcasting Platforms In October 2006, Ofcom published a document setting out the scope and Enforcement of General Conditions, SMP Conditions, Access-related timetable for a review of wholesale digital television broadcasting platforms.
Conditions and Continued Licence Conditions Ofcom indicated that it intends to undertake an analysis of relevant markets and Any breach of the General Conditions, SMP Conditions or Access-related to assess market power in such markets, to be used to inform regulation of conditions could result in Ofcom issuing a direction against us to rectify the breach conditional access, access control and EPG services, and to review the and a failure to comply with such direction could result in the imposition of a ne competition conditions in the DTT multiplex licences.
In its consultation or, ultimately, the suspension of the Groups right to provide the relevant network, document in relation to its pay TV market investigation see below, Ofcom stated services or facilities.
Decisions by Ofcom to impose new obligations on the Group, that the more strategic issues which might be considered in this platform review or any remedial direction or ne would usually be amenable to appeal to the overlap with issues raised in the market investigation, and that the latter may be Competition Appeal Tribunal or, if no appeal is available, may be capable of a better vehicle for consideration of such issues.
Ofcom also stated that it has challenge by way of judicial review before the courts.
32 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 33 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% The continued licence conditions relating to EPG services and access controlrules governing the proportion of transmission time that must be reserved for services are enforceable by Ofcom using enforcement powers under the European works and for European works created by producers who are Telecommunications Act 1984. independent of broadcasters: qualitative rules governing the substance of advertising and the standards Dispute resolution that must be complied with and quantitative rules regulating the insertion of In addition to providing for the imposition by Ofcom of specic regulatory advertising between or during programmes and or specifying the maximum obligations, the Communications Act also imposes a duty on Ofcom to resolve duration of advertising: certain disputes relating to the provision of Network Access as dened byrules to ensure that broadcasters do not broadcast on an exclusive basis Section 151 3 of the Communications Act.
In resolving such disputes, Ofcom events which are seen as being of major importance for society, including has the power to do one or more of the following: sporting events, in such a way as to deprive a substantial proportion of the public of the possibility of following such events via live coverage or deferred to make a declaration setting out the rights and obligations of the parties to coverage on free television: and the dispute:rules to ensure the protection of minors and the prevention of incitement to to give a direction xing the terms and conditions of transactions between the hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality.
parties to the dispute: to give a direction imposing an obligation, enforceable by the parties to the The AVMS Directive extended the scope of European regulation in this area to all dispute, to enter into a transaction between themselves on the terms and audiovisual media services, irrespective of the technology used, and includes conditions xed by Ofcom: and both linear and on-demand services.
However, on-demand content is only to give a direction, enforceable by the party to whom the sums are to be paid, subject to a basic tier of regulation which includes safeguarding essential public requiring the payment of sums by way of adjustment of an underpayment or interests such as protecting minors, encouraging cultural diversity, preventing overpayment.
incitement to hatred and basic consumer protection rules.
Following a public consultation, on 11 March 2009, the UK Government announced its proposals Transmission standards for implementing the AVMS Directive before 19 December 2009.
The proposals The use of standards for the transmission of television signals is governed by included giving Ofcom the powers to regulate UK on-demand services, through a the Electronic Communications Directives notably the Access and Universal co-regulatory body established with industry.
Providers of relevant services will Services Directives, which require EU Member States to impose transmission have to notify the co-regulator that they are providing a relevant service.
Ofcom standards on broadcasters of television services.
These requirements on is also expected to delegate responsibility for the regulation of advertising on technical standards have been implemented in the UK by The Advanced on-demand services to the Advertising Standards Authority ASA.
Television Services Regulations 2003 and are administered by Ofcom.
The AVMS Directive relaxes rules on the amount and timing of television advertising for linear services.
The Directive also allows individual member Irish law states to derogate from the prohibition on product placement in certain genres The Group is currently not regulated by the Irish national communications including lms and television series, sports programmes and light regulatory authority, the Commission for Communications Regulation.
This derogation does not apply to news, current 2003, the Commission for Communications Regulation claried that it would affairs and childrens programmes.
Following public consultation, the UK not, for the time being, seek to regulate the provision of access to broadcasting government intends to maintain the prohibition on product placement in linear networks or the delivery of content services to end users in Ireland under the services, but will allow it for on-demand content.
Broadcasting Act licences Broadcasting Regulation In the UK, the provisions of the TWF Directive are implemented, to a large EC law extent, via the Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 together, the Broadcasting The Audiovisual Media Services Directive amending the Television Acts.
The Broadcasting Acts also contain additional provisions of national law, Without Frontiers Directive beyond the matters required to be covered by the TWF Directive.
The EC Television Without Frontiers Directive 1989 TWF Directive, as revised in 1997, sets out certain basic principles for the regulation of television The Group is required to hold licences issued under the Broadcasting Acts in broadcasting activity in the EU.
The UK has adopted a variety of measures to give relation to its provision of broadcasting services.
Compliance with the conditions effect to the requirements of the TWF Directive, including conditions in attaching to these licences is enforced by Ofcom.
Further details on the broadcasting licensing regime in the UK are set out below.
We and our broadcasting joint ventures each currently hold a Television Licensable Content Services TLCS licence for each of our respective channels On 24 May 2007, political agreement was reached on a new Audiovisual Media and for a number of other broadcasting services, including our EPG on digital Services Directive, which amends and updates the TWF Directive together satellite.
A TLCS licence permits a channel to be broadcast on cable, DSL and referred to as the AVMS Directive.
The Audiovisual Media Services Directive satellite, but does not confer on a TLCS licensee the right to use any specic entered into force in December 2007.
The EU Member States have been given satellite, transponder or frequency to deliver the service.
TLCS licences are granted 24 months in which to transpose the new provisions into national law.
for an indefinite duration for so long as the licence remains in force and new licences are issued by Ofcom if certain minimum objective criteria are met.
In relation to linear services, the AVMS Directive includes, amongst other things: Ofcom is currently consulting on a proposal to insert conditions into the TLCS a country of origin principle to ensure that broadcasters are not required to licences for Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2 and substantially all of Skys movie channels comply with different rules in different EU Member States.
Instead, each both HD and SD versions in each case which would require the Group to broadcaster is subject to the primary jurisdiction only of its home Member wholesale those channels on regulated terms see Principal risks and State, determined in accordance with criteria laid down in the TWF: uncertainties above.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 33 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 34 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Government regulation minimum of 30 minutes of sign presented programming each month between 7am and 11pm or, with the consent of Ofcom, to implement alternative continued arrangements which would be likely to provide better assistance for deaf We also hold a Digital Television Programme Services DTPS licence, which is people using sign language.
As such an alternative arrangement the Group required for the distribution of our channels via DTT, and a Digital Television participates in the BSLBT, which produces sign presented programmes Additional Services DTAS licence for the distribution of other services currently broadcast on the Community Channel.
The Groups participation in including Sky Text on DTT.
In February 2007, the Group announced that it is the BSLBT removes the obligation to broadcast sign presented programming developing plans for the launch of a subscription television service on DTT.
This on the Groups own channels with the exception of Sky Sports 1 which service is to be retailed under the Picnic brand.
An application to amend the continues to be subject to the signing targets set out in the Code on Television Groups Digital Television Programme Services licence was submitted to Ofcom Access Services : and in April 2007.
On 26 June 2009, Ofcom stated in its third pay TV consultation Code on Electronic Programme Guides: this requires all providers of EPGs document that it will complete this latest consultation before considering again licensed under the Broadcasting Acts to give public service channels which the Groups pay DTT proposal see DTT Distribution above.
currently comprise all BBC television channels, ITV1, Channel 4, five, and S4C Digital and the digital public teletext service such degree of prominence as In common with all television broadcasting licences issued by Ofcom, our Ofcom considers appropriate.
The Code also requires that undue prominence licences require us to comply with any relevant codes and directions issued by is not given on an EPG to channels connected to the EPG operator, that an Ofcom from time to time.
Ofcom or its predecessors has published codes and objective policy for allocating listings on the EPG is maintained and published: guidance including the following codes: and that there is no requirement for exclusivity on an EPG for any service.
Broadcasting Code: this includes requirements relating to, among other As noted above, the TWF Directive includes rules governing, amongst other things, the impartiality and accuracy of news programming, the protection things, the proportion of transmission time that must be reserved for European from harm and offence and the portrayal of sex and violence: works and for European works created by producers who are independent of Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising: this Code sets out the rules broadcasters.
specifically, the TWF Directive requires each EU Member State to with which television broadcasters licensed by Ofcom must comply when ensure where practicable and by appropriate means that broadcasters falling carrying advertising: under its jurisdiction reserve a a majority of their transmission time for Cross Promotions Code: this is designed to ensure that cross-promotions on European works and b at least 10% of their transmission time or, at the television are distinct from advertising and are limited to informing viewers of discretion of the Member State, at least 10% of their programming budget for services likely to be of interest to them as viewers.
The Code allows European works created by producers who are independent of broadcasters in broadcasters to promote broadcasting-related services in promotional relation to b, an adequate proportion of such works should be produced within airtime subject to the requirement that the promotion is provided for no the five years preceding the transmission.
The term where practicable and by consideration.
No consideration will be presumed to have passed where the appropriate means is not dened in the TWF Directive and is left for the promoting channel has a shareholding of 30% or more in the promoted interpretation of each Member State.
In applying these requirements, broadcast channel or vice versa.
The Code also contains additional rules, applicable time covering news, games, advertisements, sports events, teletext and only to ITV1, Channel 4 and five, requiring all references to digital retail teleshopping services is excluded.
television services or digital television broadcasting platforms to be on an equal and impartial basis: A condition requiring licensees to comply with these requirements, where Code on Sports and other Listed Events: the Broadcasting Act 1996 as practicable, and having regard to any guidance issued by Ofcom, is contained in amended by the Communications Act provides that no UK broadcaster may all Broadcasting Act licences.
On 10 February 2005, Ofcom published guidance undertake the exclusive live broadcast of certain sporting or other events of in relation to compliance with the requirements in the TWF Directive.
Ofcoms national interest designated by the Secretary of State from time to time guidance requires television broadcasters, who consider that it would not be Listed Events, whether on a free-to-air basis or subscription basis, without practicable to meet one or more of the quota requirements, to explain why to the prior consent of Ofcom.
The effect of these rules is that many leading Ofcom, which will advise whether any remedial measures are necessary.
sports events cannot be shown exclusively live on pay television in the UK.
The Code on Sports and other Listed Events was drafted by the Independent A number of our channels currently meet the relevant quota requirements for Television Commission ITC, Ofcoms predecessor, and sets out how the ITC both European works and European independent productions.
Some of our and now Ofcom will apply the rules on Listed Events.
In April 2009 an channels only meet one of the relevant quotas and some do not meet either independent advisory panel, appointed by the Secretary of State for Culture, quota.
For those channels that do not currently reserve the relevant proportion Media and Sport opened a review of the listed events regime.
The panel is of relevant transmission time to European works or to European independent expected to report to the Secretary of State in the second half of 2009. productions, it may not be practicable to do so, in which case those channels Code on Television Access Services: the Communications Act prescribes would still comply with the condition in their Broadcasting Act licences.
Ofcom certain annual targets for television access services subtitling, audio has not advised that any remedial measures are necessary in respect of those description and signing that broadcasters licensed channels must meet.
The channels, nor has it advised that it does not accept that it is not practicable for Code on Television Access Services sets out Ofcoms guidance on ensuring any of these channels to meet the relevant quota requirements.
The Code requires broadcasters to provide quarterly returns on their compliance.
In 2008, all of Skys channels Enforcement of Broadcasting Act licences exceeded their relevant target.
In December 2007, following a consultation If a licensee is found to be in breach of a condition of its Broadcasting Act reviewing the provision of signing services by low-audience channels, licence, Ofcom may issue a direction requiring compliance with the relevant Ofcom published new arrangements for signing on low audience channels.
licence condition and may impose a ne.
Ofcom also has the ultimate power to With effect from 1 January 2009, all channels with an audience share of revoke a broadcasters Broadcasting Act licence where it is found to be in between 0.05% and 1% other than public service channels are excluded from breach of its licence if no other remedies are considered appropriate.
Any obligations to meet the signing targets set out in the Code on Television decision by Ofcom nding a licensee to be in breach of a condition of a Access Services.
Excluded channels are instead required to either transmit a 34 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 35 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Broadcasting Act licence, including a decision to impose a ne or revoke the Government has launched a number of consultations in relation to these licence, could be challenged by way of judicial review before the courts.
proposals and will consult further in due course, and on 30 June 2009 published proposals for a Digital Economy Bill as part of its legislative programme for Media ownership rules 2009 10.
The Bill is intended to deliver the objectives set out in the Digital There are various rules in the Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended and the Britain report.
Communications Act governing media ownership.
These rules currently preclude us for as long as the Group is ultimately owned as to over 20% by News Corporation Co-regulation self-regulation or another member of the same group from acquiring more than a 20% interest in Ofcom has contracted out responsibility for the regulation of the content of any Channel 3 licence which covers the 15 regional ITV1 licences and GMTV.
television advertising to the ASA, a co-regulatory body.
The Television Advertising Standards Code, which sets out the rules governing the content of In addition to the media ownership rules governing who can hold a Broadcasting television advertising, applies to all Broadcasting Act licensees and is enforced Act licence, Ofcom is also required under the Communications Act to carry out a by the ASA.
Ofcom retains a backstop power to enforce compliance with the review whenever a change of control takes place in relation to the holder of certain standards in the Code.
Similar arrangements exist in relation to training Broadcasting Act licences, including the Channel 3 licences and the licence for five.
regulatory obligations where the Broadcast Training and Skills Regulator acts as Ofcom will review the likely effects of such a change of control on the licensed the co-regulatory body.
services, for example in relation to the time available for and scheduling of original productions and news and current affairs programmes.
Ofcom has the power to The Sky Talk and Sky Broadband services are also registered with the vary the licence holders licence to address any concerns that it may have following telecommunications ombudsman service Otelo, with the consequence that Skys such a review.
In November 2006, Ofcom announced that it would consider customers may complain to Otelo about the services they are receiving and whether Skys acquisition of a 17.9% stake in ITV represented a change in control of Otelo will investigate and decide what action should be taken.
As a member of one or more of the licences in ITV.
Ofcom has yet to reach a decision on this review.
the Ombudsman scheme, Sky has agreed to honour Otelos decisions.
In April 2006, Ofcom published guidance on the denition of control of media The Group is a member of the Internet Watch Foundation, which provides a UK companies.
This guidance sets out the matters which Ofcom will take into hotline for users to report potentially illegal content, specifically child abuse consideration when assessing control in this context, and the procedure it images hosted anywhere in the world or content hosted in the UK which is will follow when investigating whether control exists.
either criminally obscene or could incite racial hatred.
Public Service Broadcasting Irish law On 21 January 2009, Ofcom published its Final Statement of its Second review of Even though our channels are available in the Republic of Ireland we do not public service television broadcasting.
The outcome of Ofcoms review was the hold any Irish broadcasting licences, as a result of the operation of the country recommendation of the following priorities: 1 to maintain the BBCs role and of origin principle contained in the TWF and AVMS Directive.
funding for its programmes and services at the heart of the overall system: 2 to support investment in and wide availability of high quality original programming A list of designated events in Ireland has been dened under the Irish and UK and international news, by positioning the Channel 3 and Channel 5 Broadcasting Major Events Television Coverage Act 1999 Designation of Major services as commercial networks with a limited public service commitment, with Events Order 2003.
The effect of these rules is that many leading sports events modest licence benets balanced by appropriate obligations on a sustainable cannot be shown exclusively live on pay television in Ireland.
basis: 3 to plan now to ensure the supply of a choice of high quality news alongside the BBC in the devolved nations and English regions and 4 to ensure Betting and gaming there is a nancially robust alternative provider of public service content We carry out our betting and gaming activities through two Group companies, alongside the BBC, with Channel 4 at its heart, preferably based on Hestview Limited Hestview and Bonne Terre Limited Bonne Terre.
partnerships, joint ventures or mergers, with the scale necessary to sustain effective delivery of public purposes across digital media.
Hestview currently carries out its betting activities under a remote betting licence issued by the Gambling Commission in accordance with the Gambling Act 2005.
Digital Britain Report On 16 June 2009, the UK Government published the final Digital Britain report, Bonne Terre, a company registered in Alderney, carries out its gambling intended to secure the UKs position as one of the worlds leading digital activities casino, bingo and poker under a licence granted by the Alderney knowledge economies.
The key proposals include the following: universal access Gambling Control Commission under the terms of the Gambling Ordinance 2007 to 2Mb broadband by 2012: the creation of a fund for investment in the next and is regulated by that body.
generation of superfast broadband to ensure it is available to the whole of the UK raised by a 50 pence per month levy on all xed copper telephone lines: Competition anti-trust law upgrading all national radio stations to DAB by 2015: accelerating current and We are subject to the EC competition law regime and to the national next generation mobile coverage and services: proposals for new powers for competition law regimes in the countries in which we operate.
Ofcom to carry out a full assessment of the UKs communications infrastructure every two years, and to have a new duty to promote investment in EC competition rules communications infrastructure: a revised digital remit for Channel 4: a robust Anti-competitive agreements legal and regulatory framework to combat Digital Piracy: Digital Test Beds to Article 81 1 of the EC Treaty prohibits agreements and concerted practices promote innovation, experimentation and learning around creation and between undertakings which may affect trade between EU Member States and monetization of digital content: a consultation on contained contestability in which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of respect of the TV Licence Fee to secure news in the nations, regions and locally, competition within the EU.
An agreement may infringe Article 81 1 only if it is and possibly childrens television programmes: guidance and clarification on the likely to have an appreciable effect on competition.
Agreements which fall within media merger regime and an enhanced evidence role for the regulator in local the scope of Article 81 1 will not be prohibited where they meet the criteria set mergers.
out in Article 81 3, that is, where they improve the production or distribution of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 35 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 36 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Government regulation directed at securing other public interest objectives for example, the plurality of the media and are compatible with EC law.
continued goods or promote technical or economic progress, provided that consumers Sector inquiries receive a fair share of the resulting benefit, competition is not substantially The European Commission also carries out sector inquiries into sectors of the eliminated and the agreement does not contain unnecessary restrictions.
economy where it considers that a market does not seem to be working as well as it should.
Sector inquiries may lead the European Commission to open Abuse of a dominant position specic investigations under Article 81 or Article 82.
Article 82 of the EC Treaty prohibits the abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the EU or a substantial part of it, insofar as the abuse may UK competition rules affect trade between EU Member States.
Anti-competitive agreements Section 2 1 of the Competition Act 1998 the Chapter I prohibition prohibits Enforcement of Articles 81 and 82 agreements or concerted practices which may affect trade within the UK and Articles 81 and 82 may be enforced by the European Commission, designated which have the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting national competition authorities in each of the EU Member States and or by the competition within the UK.
An agreement will only infringe the Chapter I national courts in each of the EU Member States.
prohibition if it is likely to have an appreciable effect on competition.
Agreements which fall within the scope of the Chapter I prohibition will not be Infringement of Articles 81 or 82 may result in significant consequences prohibited where they meet specic statutory criteria, that is, where they including fines, voidness or unenforceability of infringing agreements, improve the production or distribution of goods or promote technical or prohibition of infringing conduct, potential liability to third parties notably for economic progress, provided that consumers receive a fair share of the resulting damages and or the potential for involved directors to be disqualified.
benefit, competition is not substantially eliminated and the agreement does not contain unnecessary restrictions.
Investigation of Premier League agreements The European Commissions investigation into the PLs joint selling of exclusive Abuse of a dominant position broadcast rights to football matches concluded with the European Commissions Section 18 1 of the Competition Act 1998 the Chapter II prohibition prohibits adoption, in March 2006, of a decision making commitments offered by the PL the abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the UK or a legally enforceable.
These commitments a non-condential version of which substantial part of it, insofar as the abuse may affect trade within the UK.
has been made available to third parties are to remain in force until June 2013 and thus applied to the PLs auction of media rights for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 Enforcement of the Chapter I and II prohibitions seasons and to the auction of media rights for the 2010 11 to 2012 13 seasons The Chapter I and II prohibitions may be enforced by the OFT, one of the sector which occurred in respect of the UK in February 2009.
Amongst other things, the regulators in the case of the communications sector, Ofcom or the UK courts.
commitments provide for the PL to sell six balanced packages of live audio visual rights including rights via the internet and via mobile, each of which showcase The Chapter I and II prohibitions must be interpreted in a manner that is the League as a whole throughout each season.
No single bidder is allowed to consistent with Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty.
buy all six packages and packages are sold to the highest standalone bidder.
The decision is binding on the PL for the duration of the commitments, but does not Infringement of the Chapter I or II prohibitions may result in significant bind national competition authorities or national courts.
consequences including fines, voidness or unenforceability of infringing agreements, prohibition of infringing conduct, potential liability to third parties The Group was awarded four of the six packages of rights to show live notably for damages and or the potential for involved directors to be audiovisual coverage of PL football matches in the UK for the 2007 08 to disqualified.
In addition the Group was awarded five of the six packages of rights to show live audiovisual coverage of PL football matches in the UK for the Legal proceedings initiated by Virgin Media group 2010 11 to 2012 13 seasons.
In April 2007, Virgin Media Communications Limited, Virgin Media Television Limited and Virgin Media Limited issued proceedings in the High Court in As described in its third PayTV consultation document Ofcom has indicated its England and Wales against British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and British Sky intention to review with the PL how it intends to ensure that the PLs next rights Broadcasting Limited, alleging that the Group has infringed Article 82 EC and the auction for the seasons from and including the 2013 14 season will comply with Chapter II prohibition by pursuing an anti-competitive strategy designed to competition laws and has stated that this might involve exploring with the PL weaken Virgin Media group, which allegedly entailed i a constructive refusal to whether it is willing to provide new commitments.
supply the Groups basic pay television channels to Virgin Media group for supply via Virgin Media groups cable network in the UK: ii a refusal to pay fair Mergers prices for the right to carry Virgin Media groups television channels as part of The European Commission regulates mergers, full function joint ventures i. e. the Groups retail channel offering: and iii the Groups purchase of a ones which perform on a lasting basis all the functions of an autonomous significant shareholding in ITV which purchase, it is alleged, was designed economic entity and the acquisition of holdings which confer decisive influence principally to damage Virgin Media groups ability to compete in the supply of over an undertaking and which meet certain turnover thresholds specified in the pay television services, by preventing Virgin Media group from obtaining access EC Merger Regulation.
Such transactions may not be carried out without prior to attractive programming content.
approval of the European Commission.
Where the European Commission has jurisdiction to review a transaction under the EC Merger Regulation, national The Group had also commenced litigation against VM relating to payments due authorities in the EU Member States do not normally have jurisdiction to apply to the Group under its carriage agreement with VM.
their own competition laws to the same transaction.
However, Member States may continue to apply their national laws to mergers, where such laws are On 4 November 2008, the Group and VM agreed to terminate all High Court proceedings against each other relating to the carriage of their respective 36 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 37 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% channels and announced the conclusion of two carriage agreements.
Under the associated person, not to seek or accept representation to the Board of ITV and agreements the Groups basic channels are to be carried on VMs cable not to reacquire shares in ITV.
television service and VMs basic channels would continue to be retailed by Sky on the satellite platform.
Both agreements are to operate concurrently until The Group sought judicial review of the decisions of the SoS and CC before the 12 June 2011.
VM also sought judicial review of the findings of the CC and SoS in relation to media plurality and the remedies imposed.
The Group was granted Mergers permission to intervene in the review proceedings of VM and VM was granted The framework for the assessment of mergers under UK law is set out in Part 3 permission to intervene in the review proceedings brought by the Group.
A relevant merger situation i. e. a transaction which involves a change of control between previously distinct enterprises qualies On 29 September 2008, the CAT published a single judgment with respect to for investigation by the OFT where it satisfies either a share of supply test or a both the Groups and VMs appeals.
The CAT rejected the Groups appeal and turnover test.
There is no requirement to notify mergers to the OFT nor to obtain upheld VMs challenge relating to media plurality.
In relation to remedies, the prior regulatory clearance, although the OFT has the power to investigate CAT found that the CC and SoS were entitled to nd that divestiture to below mergers on its own initiative.
7.5% would most appropriately remedy the competition concerns.
The Group applied to the CAT for permission to appeal the CATs judgment to the CoA.
That Where the OFT reasonably believes that a relevant merger situation has or may application was rejected.
The Group has since applied directly to the CoA for have been created, or may be created in future, and has resulted or may be permission to appeal the CAT judgment and permission was granted on expected to result in a substantial lessening of competition, it has a duty to refer 17 March 2009.
VM also applied for permission to appeal the CAT judgment to the merger to the CC for further investigation.
The OFT may accept remedies the CoA contingent on the success of the Groups request for permission.
VMs offered by the parties instead of making a reference to the CC.
request for permission to appeal was also granted by the CoA.
The Group and the VM appeals will be heard together at a hearing before the CoA scheduled for If a reference is made, the CC will decide whether a relevant merger situation October 2009. has arisen and, if so, whether the relevant merger situation would substantially lessen competition and, if so, will either prohibit the merger or impose On 2 January 2009 the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory appropriate remedies.
Reform now the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills opened a public consultation on draft undertakings implementing the divestment remedy In relation to media mergers i. e. mergers involving newspaper and or required by the SoS, the form of which the Group had previously agreed.
No broadcasting enterprises, the Secretary of State also has the power to intervene further announcement has been made since the consultation closed.
on the basis of specified public interest grounds including relating to media plurality.
Where the Secretary of State issues an intervention notice, the OFT will The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, these investigate the competition jurisdictional issues and Ofcom will investigate the matters will have a material effect on the Group.
public interest issues relating to the merger.
The Secretary of State will then decide whether to refer the transaction to the CC.
The Secretary of State is Market investigations required to follow the OFTs findings on competition jurisdiction.
In cases Part 4 of the Enterprise Act makes provision for a system of market investigations where a reference is made, the CC will investigate both the competition and by the CC.
The OFT or in relation to the communications sector, Ofcom may relevant public interest aspects of the merger and will report its findings to the make a market investigation reference to the CC where it has reasonable grounds Secretary of State.
Ofcom may also give further advice to the Secretary of State.
for suspecting that any feature, or combination of features, of a market in the UK The Secretary of State will then decide whether the merger operates, or may be for goods or services prevents, restricts, or distorts competition in connection expected to operate, against the public interest and, if so, will decide on with the supply or acquisition of any goods or services in the UK or part of the appropriate remedies.
The Secretary of State must accept the CCs findings on UK.
Instead of making a reference to the CC, the OFT or Ofcom may accept competition jurisdiction, where relevant.
remedial undertakings from the companies concerned.
The Groups investment in ITV Where the OFT or, in relation to the communications sector, Ofcom makes a On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV amounting market investigation reference to the CC, the CC will conduct a detailed to 17.9% of its issued share capital.
The Group paid 135 pence per share, investigation.
The CC may decide that remedial action is required if it nds that totalling 946 million.
The investment in ITV has been subject to an in-depth there is an adverse effect on competition in a market under investigation.
In December 2007, the CC completed its review and delivered Ultimately, the CC has extensive powers to impose remedial action, including the final report of its findings to the SoS for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory requiring divestments, requiring the licensing of know-how or intellectual Reform now the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
The CC property, requiring rms to discontinue adopt certain practices or restraining concluded that the Groups acquisition of the ITV shares may be expected to the way rms would otherwise behave e. g. imposing price caps.
result in a substantial lessening of competition arising from the loss of rivalry in an all-TV market between ITV and the Group.
The CC also concluded that the Ofcom market investigation of pay TV industry acquisition would not materially affect the sufciency of plurality of person with On 26 June 2009, Ofcom published its third pay TV consultation document in control of media enterprises serving regulated audiences.
The CC recommended relation to its ongoing investigation into the UK pay TV industry, which was that the Group be required to divest part of its stake such that it would hold less opened in March 2007.
In this consultation document, Ofcom confirms its view, than 7.5% of ITVs issued share capital.
Taking into account the CCs findings, on which it consulted in its previous consultation document, that the Group has the SoS announced on 29 January 2008 his decision to make an adverse public market power in narrow wholesale markets for premium sports and movie interest nding.
The SoS also decided to impose on the Group the following channels and consults on its view that the Group has market power in narrow remedies to address the substantial lessening of competition identied in the retail markets for premium sports and movie channels.
Ofcom also confirms its CCs report: 1 divestment of the Groups shares in ITV down to a level below view that the Group has, and is acting on, an incentive to limit distribution of 7.5% within a specified period which has not been publicly disclosed and 2 those channels to other retailers on platforms other than DTH.
Ofcom confirms undertakings requiring the Group not to dispose of its ITV shares to an that it continues to believe that its concerns could be addressed by requiring the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 37 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 38 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued Government regulation The RoHS Directive and the implementing regulations necessitate the removal of stipulated hazardous substances from products placed on the market after mid continued 2005 within set timeframes and the recovery and recycling of electrical products Group to wholesale designated premium channels on regulated terms a to specified levels.
The Packaging Waste Regulations require companies that wholesale must-offer obligation under its sectoral powers and, in this third handle packaging to finance the recovery and recycling of packaging equivalent consultation, Ofcom outlines and consults on the specics of such an obligation.
to the type and volume of packaging that they have handled each year.
These The wholesale must-offer obligation as proposed would cover Sky Sports 1 and three sets of Regulations apply to our purchase and supply of set-top boxes, Sky Sports 2 and substantially all of Skys movie channels including both HD routers and other related equipment and require registrations to be completed and SD versions in each case and includes price and non-price terms: in by us, our suppliers and retailers.
particular, Ofcom is consulting on a range of regulated wholesale prices for the relevant channels which would be calculated as a discount off retail prices.
The Other changes in the categorisation, segregation, storage and removal of certain range of wholesale prices on which Ofcom is consulting is below the current hazardous wastes require us to register sites that produce such wastes.
Without wholesale rate card terms see The business, its objectives and its strategy registration, hazardous wastes are not able to be removed from site for Cable distribution.
The wholesale must-offer obligation would be disposal.
Incorrect disposal may lead to regulatory action.
implemented by changes to the Groups TLCS licences see Government regulation Broadcasting Act licences above.
We track draft environmental directives and regulations to establish their applicability to the business and enable an appropriate response to be planned In this consultation document, Ofcom also states that it believes that there may and implemented.
Of note is the Directive of the European Parliament and of the be a case for targeted interventions in relation to SVoD movie rights and in Council of 6 July 2005 establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign relation to the next PL auction.
With regard to SVoD movie rights, Ofcom has requirements for energy using products, as well as the Carbon Reduction stated that if it were to intervene, it is likely that it would make a market Commitment formerly the Energy Performance Commitment, which was investigation reference to the CC.
Ofcom is not, however, consulting formally on proposed in the Climate Change Bill.
such a reference at this stage as it first wishes to explore with the relevant movie studios whether their existing commercial plans are likely to result in the more effective exploitation of SVoD rights, thereby avoiding the need for regulatory intervention.
Ofcom also has a concern in relation to collective selling of PL rights.
The PLs commitments to the European Commission regarding the PLs joint selling of exclusive broadcast rights to football matches see Investigation of Football Association Premier League Agreements above will not apply to the PLs next rights auction which is expected in 2012 for the seasons from and including 2013 14.
Ofcom has stated its intention to review with the PL how it intends to ensure that this auction will comply with competition law and has stated that this might involve exploring with the PL whether it is willing to provide new commitments.
Interested parties, including the Group, are invited to respond to the third consultation document by 18 September 2009.
Ofcom has stated that it will then consider responses to its consultation before making decisions on whether to intervene under its sectoral powers and whether to issue a consultation on a reference to the Competition Commission in relation to SVoD rights.
The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, these matters will have a material effect on the Group.
Irish competition rules Our operations in Ireland are subject to the Irish competition law regime which regulates anti-competitive agreements, abuses of a dominant position and mergers.
Environmental regulation We are subject to environmental regulations that require our compliance.
Failure to meet the requirements of such regulations may lead to fines being incurred or damage to our brand image.
Regulations based on EU Directives, notably the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive WEEE Directive, the Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment Directive RoHS Directive and the Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste Regulations The Packaging Waste Regulations have placed various obligations upon us.
The WEEE Directive and the implementing regulations require producers and distributors of electrical and electronic equipment to finance and enable the recycling and or disposal of these items in an environmentally sound manner.
38 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009
