qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 8 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled in the UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was incorporated in England Introduction and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal executive ofces are located at Grant British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its subsidiaries Sky or the Group Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England.
A list operate the leading pay television service in the UK and Ireland as well as of our significant investments is set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial broadband and telephony services.
We commission and acquire programming to statements.
broadcast on our own channels and supply certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission to their subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We Programming retail channels both our own and third parties to DTH customers and certain We provide customers with a broad range of programming options.
of our own channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers reference in this Programming is an important factor in generating and maintaining customers.
Annual Report to the number of DTH customers includes the number of DSL With respect to the channels we own and operate, we incur significant expense subscribers to whom Sky retails its content directly.
We also make three of our to produce and commission original entertainment programming and to acquire channels available free-to-air via the UK DTT platform, as part of the branded exclusive UK and Ireland television rights to lms, certain sports events and Freeview offering.
We have also acquired the rights to market the television services of third parties to DTH customers.
At 30 June 2009, there were 9,442,000 DTH customers to our television service, and 4,271,000 subscribers of the cable operators to whom we supply certain of Currently, we own, operate, distribute and retail 26 Sky Channels via our DTH our channels, in the UK and Ireland.
Cable subscribers to the Groups channels service or 29 including multiplex versions of the Sky Channels, but excluding increased by 3,023,000 in comparison to scal 2008 due to the return of the Sky simulcast channels and the business channels SkyVenue and the Pub Channel.
Basic Channels on the Virgin Media VM platform from 13 November 2008.
A multiplex of a channel is a time-shifted version of that channel or a version According to estimates of Broadcasters Audience Research Board BARB, as where the content is transmitted at different times.
We also simulcast some of at 30 June 2009, there were 14.7 million homes in the UK receiving certain of the Sky Channels or programming from some of the Sky Channels in high our channels via DTT see DTT distribution below.
Our total revenue in scal denition.
A simulcast channel is a simultaneous transmission of programmes 2009 was 5,359 million 2008: 4,952 million, as set out in the table below.
We currently retail to our DTH customers 159 Sky Distributed Channels including multiplex versions of certain channels the Sky Distributed 2009 2008 Channels.
We do not own the Sky Distributed Channels, although we have an For the year to 30 June m m equity interest in certain of them.
In addition to the Sky Distributed Channels, Retail subscription 4,184 3,769 we currently retail to our DTH customers the digital audio services Music Choice Wholesale subscription 206 181 and Music Choice Extra, as well as the Sky Box Ofce service a pay-per-view Advertising 308 328 service offering movies, sporting events and concerts.
Sky Bet 48 44 Installation, hardware and service 235 276 The Sky Distributed Channels packages as at 30 June 2009, were as follows: Other 378 354 Revenue 5,359 4,952 3rd Party Package Channels We operate principally within the UK and Ireland, with activities conducted Variety Mix 37 primarily from the UK.
Our revenue principally arises from services provided to Style & Culture Mix 25 retail and wholesale customers within the UK, with the exception of 443 Kids Mix 19 million 2008: 365 million which arises from services provided to other Knowledge Mix 24 countries.
Music Mix 17 News & Events Mix 11 Our scal years end on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
References ROI Bonus Mix 11 in this document to a scal year ended 30 June is to the scal year ending on Adult Pay-Per Night 11 the Sunday nearest to 30 June.
We publish our financial statements in British Disney Cinemagic 2 pounds sterling.
References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are MUTV 1 to the currency of the United States US, references to Euro and are to Chelsea TV 1 the currency of the participating European Union EU countries, and Disney Cinemagic also available as a bonus channel to customers of both Movies Mix references to pounds sterling, pence and p are to the currency of packages.
For information with respect to exchange rates, see Shareholder Information Exchange Rates.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, our consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Certain terms used herein are dened in the Glossary of terms which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
8 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 9 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% The Sky Channels, and their multiplex versions, as at 30 June 2009, were as We also operate a high denition TV HD service which consists of: Sky1 HD, follows: Sky Arts 1 HD, Sky Arts 2 HD, Sky Real Lives HD, Sky Box Ofce HD two screens, Sky Sports HD three channels and Sky Movies HD nine screens, The Biography Multiplex EPG Channel Basic Channel HD, Crime and Investigation Network HD, Discovery HD, Disney Sky Channel Multiplexes Simulcasts Genre Premium Cinemagic HD, Eurosport HD, FX HD, History HD, MTVN HD, National Geographic HD, Nat Geo Wild HD, Sci-Fi HD and Rush HD.
We have recently announced that Sky Movies Premiere Sky Prem 1 Sky Premiere HD Movies Premium we will be launching Sky News HD in calendar year 2010.
BBC HD, Channel 4 HD Sky Movies Comedy Sky Comedy HD Movies Premium and Luxe TV HD are also available on our platform.
Sky Movies Action Thriller Sky Action HD Movies Premium Sky Movies Family Sky Family HD Movies Premium According to surveys produced by BARB, as of 30 June 2009, an estimated 37% Sky Movies Drama Sky Drama HD Movies Premium of the estimated 26 million television homes in the UK were equipped with Sky Movies SciFi Sky SciFi Horror digital satellite reception equipment: 14% subscribed to a cable television or Horror HD Movies Premium SMATV package single mast antenna television which is primarily for buildings Sky Movies Classics Movies Premium that receive programming by means of a single satellite antenna connected to a Sky Movies Modern Greats Sky Modern head end and which distributes television signals to individual units in the Greats HD Movies Premium building by cable : and 57% had digital terrestrial television.
The percentage Sky Movies Indie Movies Premium gures given for each means of delivery include homes which receive television Sky Movies Screen 1 Sky Screen 1HD Movies Premium services via more than one of such delivery means.
According to BARB Sky Movies Screen 2 Sky Screen 2HD Movies Premium estimates, during the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2009, the Sky Channels Sky Sports 1 Sky Sports HD1 Sports Premium including Sky Box Ofce and Sky Box Ofce Events but excluding SkyPoker.
com Sky Sports 2 Sky Sports HD2 Sports Premium and Sky Vegas accounted for an estimated 16.2% of viewing of all satellite and Sky Sports 3 Sky Sports HD3 Sports Premium cable channels excluding BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and S4C, rather than Sky Sports Xtra Sports Premium Channel 4, in Wales only and five collectively the traditionally analogue Sky Sports News Sports Basic terrestrial channels in multi-channel homes or an overall 7.1% viewing Sky1 Sky1 HD Entertainment Basic share of all channels including the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels Sky2 Entertainment Basic available within multi-channel homes during the same period.
Sky3 Entertainment Basic Sky News News Basic For the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2009, BARB estimates that 53% of all viewing Sky Real Lives Sky Real Sky Real Lives HD Lifestyle & Basic in UK homes with digital satellite reception equipment digital satellite Lives 1 Culture homes was of channels available via digital satellite other than the Sky Real traditionally analogue terrestrial channels.
BARB estimates that, in the same Lives 2 period, Sky Channels accounted for 22% of multi-channel viewing i. e. viewing Sky Arts 1 Sky Arts 1 HD Lifestyle & of all channels excluding the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels in UK Culture Basic digital satellite homes, with an overall 11.9% viewing share across all channels Sky Arts 2 Sky Arts 2 HD Lifestyle & available including the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels within UK Culture Basic digital satellite homes.
Sky Travel Shopping Basic Sky Vegas Gaming Basic We hold equity interests in ventures that own 21 not including time-shifted SkyPoker.
com Gaming Basic multiplex versions of the Sky Distributed Channels including certain Premium Sky Distributed Channels which are operated and distributed in the UK for the We retail packages of channels to our DTH customers.
The way they are purposes of this ling, any reference to the UK in relation to the distribution of packaged offers customers a choice of up to six packs of both Sky Basic the Sky Channels and Sky Distributed Channels includes the Isle of Man and the Channels and Sky Distributed Channels see Basic Channels below.
Each mix Channel Islands namely Attheraces, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. Nick Jr. 2, Nicktoons, contains channels broadly within a specic genre of interest, to which Nicktoonsters, National Geographic Channel, National Geographic HD, Nat Geo customers have the option to add a combination of Sky Premium Channels and Wild, Nat Geo Wild HD, Chelsea TV, MUTV, Comedy Central, Comedy Central Premium Sky Distributed Channels see Sky Premium Channels below.
From Extra, The History Channel, Military History, The History Channel HD, The September 2009 we plan to offer our customers the opportunity to subscribe to Biography Channel, The Biography Channel HD, Crime and Investigation Network Sky Premium Channels without the need to subscribe to one or more of these and Crime and Investigation Network HD.
We also have a 33.33% equity interest packages.
in the venture operating the Sky News Australia Channel, which is based in Australia.
We also offer Sky Box Ofce to all our DTH customers.
On the DTH platform, the Sky Premium Channels, the Sky Basic Channels other than Sky News, Sky Box Premium channels Ofce, Music Choice, Music Choice Extra and the Sky Distributed Channels are Sky Premium Channels encrypted in order to limit access to paying customers only.
Sky Movies channels Sky Movies features 10 channels of different genres divided into two packs: VM see Cable distribution UK below carries versions of the Sky Basic and Sky Premium Channels including multiplex channels on its networks.
Pack 1 Sky Movies Comedy We also broadcast versions of three of the Sky Channels, Sky News, Sky Sports Sky Movies Family News and Sky Three, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK as part of the Sky Movies Classics Freeview offering see Distribution DTT Distribution below.
Sky Movies Modern Greats Sky Movies Screen 1 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 9 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 10 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy channel.
This year the Sky Sports HD channels have included live HD coverage of Englands domestic Test matches, one day internationals and county matches in continued cricket, Engage Super League rugby, Heineken Cup and Guinness Premiership Pack 2 rugby, the US Open, US PGA and selected European Tour events in golf, the NFL Sky Movies Action Thriller Super Bowl and a range of live football including matches from the Premier Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror League PL, Coca-Cola Football leagues, Carling Cup, UEFA Champions Sky Movies Indie League, Scottish Cup and some international games.
Sky Movies Drama Sky Movies Screen 2 Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 3, Sky Sports Xtra and Sky Sports News are all available online on Sky Player.
Content from those channels is also Sky Movies Comedy, Family, Classics, Modern Greats, Action Thriller, Screen 1 available on an on-demand basis on Sky Player.
and Screen 2 and Drama broadcast 24-hours per day, seven days a week.
Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror broadcasts from 8am 6am, seven days a week and Sky In March 2006 the European Commission rendered legally binding the PLs Movies Indie broadcasts from 9am 5.30am seven days a week.
The channels commitment to sell live TV rights in six balanced packages, with no one bidder principally broadcast the output of recent release movies, made for video and being allowed to buy all six packages.
In February 2009, the Group successfully made for TV movies and certain library movies in respect of which we are bid for five of those six available packages each of 23 games of live rights to typically granted exclusive UK and Ireland rights to broadcast during the Premier League football in the UK.
These rights run from the beginning of the relevant pay television window by major Hollywood and independent US and 2010 11 season to the end of the 2012 13 season.
In addition to those PL rights, our programming rights for the Sky Sports Customers can elect to subscribe to Pack 1, Pack 2 or both packs.
Sky DTH and channels include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK and Ireland, a digital cable customers subscribing to both packs receive Sky Movies Premiere and range of sport including a number of football, rugby union, rugby league, Sky Movies Premiere 1 free.
Sky Movies Premiere broadcasts 10am 2am, seven cricket, motor sport, golf, boxing and tennis events.
Those events include: days a week and exclusively shows titles in their first run TV windows after the i broadcast rights to Football League matches and the Carling Cup for the pay per view and VoD windows.
The movies are recent theatrical releases, made 2008 09 to 2011 12 domestic football seasons: ii broadcast rights to the UEFA for video and made for TV movies, including foreign lm content.
Sky Movies Champions League for three seasons from 2009 10: iii exclusive live rights to Premiere typically broadcasts five new lms per week, and two lms from the Englands primary domestic cricket matches and all of Englands home test previous week every day for seven days.
Sky Movies Premiere 1 is a one hour matches, one day internationals and Twenty20 internationals until 2013: delayed multiplex of the Premiere channel, broadcast from 11am 3am.
iv exclusive live rights in English for the International Cricket Tours of India, Australia, South Africa and the West Indies from 2006 to 2012: v a number of There are nine Sky Movies HD channels dedicated to movies broadcast in high rugby union matches including autumn international matches to 2015 and denition: Sky Movies Screen 1 HD, Sky Movies Screen 2 HD, Sky Movies Comedy Guinness Premiership matches to 2013, vi exclusive live rights to the Heineken HD, Sky Movies Action Thriller HD, Sky Movies Family HD, Sky Movies Modern Cup and the Challenge Cup until 2014: vii exclusive rights to all tri-nations Greats HD, Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror HD, Sky Movies Drama HD and Sky Movies rugby union matches between Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, plus all Premiere HD.
Sky Movies Screen 1 HD, Sky Movies Comedy HD, Sky Movies summer tours to these three countries made by England, Scotland, Wales, Family HD and Sky Movies Modern Greats HD are available to customers to our Ireland and British and Irish Lions and exclusive rights to domestic competitions Sky HD service who also subscribe to Pack 1 and Sky Movies Screen 2 HD, Sky in those territories, including the Super 14 Tournament and Currie Cup until Movies Action Thriller HD, Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror HD and Sky Movies Drama December 2010: and viii exclusive live rights to the Ryder Cup, World Golf HD are available to customers of our Sky HD service who also subscribe to Pack Championship and the PGA European Tour until 2012.
Sky Movies Premiere HD is available to customers of our Sky HD service who subscribe to both Pack 1 and Pack 2.
Each of the Sky Movies HD channels is a Premium subscription channels retailed by Sky simulcast of the underlying SD channel.
Disney Cinemagic Under an agreement with The Walt Disney Company Limited, we have the Sky Movies Screen 1 and Sky Movies Screen 2 are also available on Sky Player exclusive rights to distribute, via DTH in the UK and Ireland, Disney Cinemagic see Digital subscriber line and other xed line distribution Sky Player and its multiplex channel as bonus channels to those of our DTH customers below.
receiving both Sky Movies packs see Sky Movies channels above, and to other DTH customers as a stand alone premium channel.
Sky Sports channels Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 each provides on average 22 hours of sports Chelsea TV programming per day, including live coverage of sports events.
Chelsea Digital Media Limited a company in which we own a 35% equity interest, operates a digital subscription pay television channel dedicated to Sky Sports 3 currently offers, on average, 18 hours of sports programming per showing certain programming relating to Chelsea Football Club Chelsea TV.
It is available without extra charge to DTH customers and cable subscribers We offer Chelsea TV to our DTH customers as a stand alone premium channel.
who subscribe to both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
MUTV Sky Sports Xtra is available as a stand alone premium channel as well as being We are party to a joint venture, MUTV Limited, with Manchester United PLC.
We provided free as an additional channel to DTH customers and cable subscribers own a 33.33% equity interest in MUTV Limited which operates a digital who subscribe to both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports Xtra currently subscription pay television channel dedicated to showing certain programming offers, on average, 16 hours of sports programming per day.
relating to Manchester United Football Club MUTV.
We offer MUTV to our DTH customers as a stand alone premium channel.
Sky Sports HD1, Sky Sports HD2 and Sky Sports HD3 are available to customers to our Sky HD service who are entitled to the corresponding standard denition 10 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 11 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Music Choice Extra Sky Travel is a 24-hour teleshopping channel consisting of programming In addition to Music Choice, which is included in certain of our Basic Packages produced in-house.
Sky Travel is currently available free-to-air.
Sky Travel see Basic Channels Basic Sky Distributed Channels below, we offer Music programming also features on Sky Three, which currently broadcasts on DTH Choice Extra, which consists of an additional 38 digital audio channels, to our and on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
Viewers of the DTH customers as a stand alone premium channel.
teleshopping programming on Sky Travel on DTH and users of the skytravel.
co. uk website are able to purchase a wide range of ights, hotels and ESPN holiday packages by the telephone or internet.
In June 2009, ESPN agreed to acquire Premier League rights for the live matches that were previously held by Setanta.
The new ESPN channel and its HD Sky Vegas and SkyPoker.
com are interactive television channels which currently simulcast, which are planned to launch on 3 August 2009, will offer live English broadcast on a 24-hour a day basis and are currently available to our DTH Premier League football, Scottish Premier League football and other European customers.
football leagues, international sports and a range of premium US sports.
As part of these new arrangements, Sky will retail ESPN to both its residential and Basic Sky Distributed Channels commercial customers.
Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels typically grant us the exclusive right to offer these channels to residential DTH customers in the UK and Ireland.
Basic Channels Sky Basic Channels The owners of the Sky Distributed Channels generally sell their own advertising Sky1 is the general entertainment agship channel of the Sky Channels and time on their channels, although we act as an advertising sales representative is available to our DTH customers and certain DSL and cable subscribers.
It is for certain of these channels see Advertising below.
targeted primarily at a 16-44 age group audience and includes UK-commissioned drama, factual and family entertainment series and major event programming in Pay-per-view addition to first-run acquired US series.
According to BARB data, during the Our Sky Box Ofce service currently offers our DTH customers over 50 screens 52 weeks ended 30 June 2009, Sky1 was viewed by approximately 48% of of television premieres of movies and occasional live sports and other special individuals in all UK television homes and Sky1 2 3 combined by approximately events on a pay-per-view basis.
We have acquired certain exclusive DTH rights 81% of individuals in all UK television homes.
from Hollywood and independent distributors, which enable us to show their movies on Sky Box Ofce.
Sky Box Ofce HD offers at least 12 movies each week Sky2 broadcasts primarily a catch-up schedule of programming from Sky1 and is in high denition on a pay-per-view basis.
We also currently offer seven screens complemented by Sky1s programming library and some exclusive content and of adult movies, between 10.00pm and 5.30am, to our DTH customers via our is available to our DTH customers and certain DSL and cable subscribers.
broadcasts a schedule of programming from Sky1s library, content from Sky Travel, Sky Real Lives and Sky Arts, as well as some exclusive content.
Sky3 is Sky Anytime TV also currently shown on some cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT In March 2007 the Group launched Sky Anytime TV, an on-demand service that as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
provides access to selected programmes that are added to the service overnight Content from Sky1, Sky2 and Sky3 is also available on an on-demand basis from with approximately 30 hours of content available at any one time.
seven days to watch programmes or store them on their Sky planner see description of Sky in DTH Distribution below as newer programmes are Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in the UK, Ireland added and older programmes are deleted.
Sky Anytime TV uses additional and across the globe.
The channel is broadcast unencrypted on Astra satellites storage capacity on relevant set-top boxes to automatically store selected see Satellites below, and distributed to viewers via cable and satellite programmes for viewing on-demand and the customers personal recording networks in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also currently shown capacity remains unaffected.
Sky Anytime TV is available to all Sky HD customers on some cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the and customers with the latest generation of Sky set-top boxes at no extra Freeview offering in the UK.
Individual news items are also available on an charge in accordance with their subscriptions for example, customers who on-demand basis from Sky Player.
subscribe for the Sky Movies channels will have access to certain Sky Movies programming on Sky Anytime TV at no extra charge.
Sky Anytime TV is now Sky Sports News provides 24-hour national and international sports news available to over 5 million Sky customers and over 1.1 million customers use the coverage.
It is currently available to our DTH customers, some cable and DSL service every week.
subscribers in the UK and Ireland and in the UK on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
Sky Sports News is available online on Sky Player.
Distribution We distribute our programming services directly to DTH customers through the Sky Arts 1 and Sky Arts 1 HD provide contemporary arts and music oriented packages described above.
Cable subscribers, by contrast, contract with cable programming and documentaries.
Sky Arts 2 and Sky Arts 2 HD broadcast operators, which in turn acquire the rights to distribute certain of the Sky classical arts programming including opera, literature, theatre, cinema and Channels from us, which they combine with other channels from third parties dance.
Both Sky Arts HD channels are available to all customers to our HD and distribute to their subscribers.
On 28 February 2007, the Groups wholesale service.
Individual programmes are available on an on-demand basis from Sky supply arrangement to supply VM with the Sky Basic channels expired, though Player.
VM continued to carry versions of all the Sky Premium Channels.
On 4 November Sky Real Lives and its multiplexes Sky Real Lives 1 and Sky Real Lives 2 focus 2008, the Group announced that it had entered into a new agreement to supply on real life human interest stories appealing to a female audience.
The Sky Real VM with certain Sky Basic Channels to take effect from 13 November 2008 see Lives channels are available to our DTH customers and some cable customers in Cable distribution UK below.
DTT viewers must have either an integrated the UK and Ireland.
The linear feed of the channel is simultaneously streamed to digital television set or an appropriate set-top box see Competition DTT the online Sky Player service: individual programmes are also available on an below.
on-demand basis from the Sky Real Lives section of the Sky Player service.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 11 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 12 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy The majority of our UK DTH commercial customers are customers under our pubs and clubs subscription agreement.
Under that agreement, the subscription continued prices range from 89 to 3,001 per month exclusive of VAT.
In Ireland, prices to pubs and clubs customers range from 278 to 686 per month exclusive of As at 30 June VAT.
1 In thousands 2009 2008 Distribution of Sky Channels Digital satellite reception equipment DTH homes 9,442 8,980 UK 2 Cable homes 4,271 1,248 In order to receive our DTH service, customers are required to have a digital Total Sky pay homes 13,713 10,228 satellite system, which includes a satellite dish and LNB low noise block 3 4 DTT homes 9,900 9,700 converter, a digital satellite receiver set-top box, a smartcard see Technology and Infrastructure below and a remote control.
We have worked 1 Each of the above gures includes homes that receive Sky Channels via more than with a number of manufacturers and continue to work closely with selected one means of distribution.
manufacturers to manufacture digital satellite receivers based upon our 2 The number of cable homes is reported to us by the cable operators.
Since our acquisition of Amstrad, the Group also manufactures 3 The DTT homes number consists of the Ofce of Communications Ofcom set-top boxes.
estimate of the number of homes where DTT is the only digital TV platform supplying services and includes Top-Up-TV DTT homes.
The number of DTT homes Standard installation for all new DTH customers taking the free standard set-top for all periods disclosed above is based on Ofcoms Digital Television Update box offer during scal 2009 was 60 or 30 for new DTH customers joining published quarterly in arrears.
with a Sky box or no charge for new DTH customers joining with a Sky HD 4 Latest data available is at 31 March 2009 with an estimated number of DTT homes box.
Non-DTH subscribers taking up the free standard set-top box offer which of over 9.9 million.
is different from purchasing our freesat proposition, see Distribution Free-toview Satellite Proposition below during scal 2009 were, and currently are, DTH distribution charged 117.45 for standard installation, regardless of whether the installation As at 30 June 2009, the total number of DTH customers in the UK and Ireland is booked for a weekend or a weekday.
was 9,442,000, representing a net increase of 462,000 customers in the scal year.
We define DTH The services received by a non-subscriber taking up the free set-top box offer churn as the number of DTH customers over a given period who terminate their depend upon the number of unencrypted services and free encrypted services subscription in its entirety, net of former customers who reinstate their available on the Astra and Eutelsat satellite systems, and also upon whether the subscription in that period where such reinstatement is within a twelve month non-subscriber receives encrypted channels from third party broadcasters on a period of the termination of their original subscription.
In scal 2009, we subscription or pay-per-view basis.
derived 4,184 million 78% of our revenue from DTH subscription revenue 2008: 3,769 million 76%.
During scal 2009, we have continued to offer the Sky box and Sky HD box.
These are set-top boxes that we have developed which contain two satellite Of 9,442,000 DTH customers: 63% took a Sky Premium Channel: 5,491,000 tuners and an integrated PVR allowing programming to be recorded directly on were Sky customers, 1,835,000 were Multiroom customers and 1,313,000 to a hard-disk contained within the box.
This enables DTH customers to watch were Sky HD customers.
one live satellite programme or a previously recorded programme while simultaneously recording another or to simultaneously record two programmes, The standard price inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a residential DTH to pause or rewind live television and to record automatically some series of customer of our basic package containing the largest number of basic channels programmes.
During scal 2009 the standard cost to DTH customers of a Sky known as the Variety Pack is currently 16.50 per month in the UK and box was between 49 and 199.
The range of prices inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a DTH customer taking one or more basic channel Packs with Sky Sky customers need a Sky subscription to use the Sky recording features.
Premium Channels which varies depending upon the number of basic channel DTH customers receive the Sky subscription for free.
Customers who do not Packs and Sky Premium Channels taken is currently 25.50 to 46 in the UK, subscribe to a Sky package non-DTH subscribers pay a monthly charge of and 38 to 69.50 in Ireland.
VAT on package prices was adjusted on a 9.75 for the Sky subscription.
rounded basis at the beginning of 2009 to reect the government reduction and During scal 2009 the standard cost to DTH customers of a Sky HD box was will be adjusted to reect any future change.
DTH customers currently pay a monthly subscription fee of 9.75 for the HD service in addition to the subscription fee for the package of We also offer a number of our services, including our HD service, to commercial channels taken.
The number of Channels received by a customer with the HD DTH customers in the UK and Ireland under a range of contracts.
The types of service depends on the basic packages and other channels they have chosen.
contract, and the channels, which are available to any particular commercial Sky HD customers require a Sky subscription to use the Sky recording customer depend primarily upon the type of business premises within which features of the Sky HD box.
The subscription is free for DTH customers or 9.75 such customers wish to show our services.
Our commercial DTH customers a month for non-DTH subscribers.
A DTH customer can only receive one include ofces, retail outlets, hotels, pubs and clubs.
Each such operator with a discounted Sky or Sky HD box.
SMATV system is considered to be a single commercial DTH customer regardless of the number of points e. g. rooms in a hotel within the premises the DTH customers with a Sky subscription and a compatible Sky or Sky HD box television signal is distributed to.
As at 30 June 2009, there were approximately can also receive Sky Anytime TV at no extra cost.
This is an on-demand service 42,192 customers to our commercial DTH services in the UK and Ireland which provides a selection of programming on the set-top box hard-disk which including approximately 4,886 commercial DTH customers operating a SMATV a customer can watch at a time of their choosing.
The viewing content that a system.
customer can access on Sky Anytime TV depends on whether the customer 12 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 13 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% subscribes to the package from which the content originates see Sky Anytime which include poker, bingo and an online casino are licensed in Alderney in the TV above.
com launched in February 2007 on DTH.
Customers can participate through their set-top boxes or through the internet at We also offer our DTH customers and non-DTH subscribers the opportunity to www.
com and can have the option of watching the show on the purchase up to seven extra Digibox receivers, or three Sky or Sky HD boxes for SkyPoker.
The Group also continues to develop a range of popular use at the same residence as their original set-top box, which enables them to games products on the internet at www.
com through the Sky Vegas watch different satellite programmes in different rooms at the same time using 24 7 games service.
In accordance with recent changes to the licensing structure just one satellite dish.
Most of our DTH customers that have a Multiroom of transactional gambling channels introduced in June 2009 by Ofcom, the subscription pay 9.75 per month for each extra box which provides all the SkyPoker and Sky Vegas channels operate as teleshopping channels rather than channels included in that customers main DTH subscription package for that as editorial channels as previously required.
Sky Bingo was launched on the extra set-top box.
In scal 2009, we derived 48 million of Sky Bet revenue encompassing betting and gaming 2008: 44 million.
The gambling During scal 2009, the standard cost of an extra Digibox was 49 and for an business is certied by the Gambling charity Gamcare and has in place stringent extra Sky or Sky HD box was 199. social responsibility measures for the protection of minors and other vulnerable people.
We take active measures to prevent persons resident in the US Both digital satellite reception equipment and subscriptions to our DTH services participating in our internet gaming and betting services.
are offered by us directly and through a variety of retailers.
We also provide installation and equipment repair services.
In scal 2009, 1.4 million digital The Group also operates the odds comparison service Oddschecker satellite reception systems were newly installed in the UK by or on behalf of one www.
com which compares betting odds of a range of operators of our subsidiaries 2008: 1.3 million.
Ireland Digital subscriber line DSL and other xed line distribution In Ireland, both satellite equipment and subscriptions to our DTH services are Sky Player offered directly by us and through a large number of Irish retailers.
Some of the Sky Player is a PC-application that provides access to a range of live channels as channels offered in Ireland differ from those offered in the UK.
well as on-demand programmes including Sky Sports, Sky1, Sky News, Sky Arts and Sky Movies programming.
Sky Active We offer our viewers enhanced and interactive services.
We offer enhanced Customers can access a range of entertainment, sports and movies content with broadcast applications behind a number of Sky Channels, including Sky Movies Sky Player via www.
com skyplayer provided they have a compatible Active behind our movie channels, Sky Sports Active behind our sports computer and operating system.
This offers downloads and streamed content to channels, Sky News Active behind Sky News and the interactive betting service any PC with internet access.
The cost and availability of content depends on available behind SkyPoker.
We offer interactive services whether the customer is a DTH customer and what DTH subscription package which can be accessed whilst the programming on the channel to which the they have.
Certain content is available on a pay-per-view and subscription basis.
interactive service relates stays in view.
Sky By Wire We provide an interactive television platform for the development and delivery Sky By Wire refers to television services retailed directly by us over the xed of interactive television services by means of either stand-alone portals line networks of other operators.
including the Sky Active portal or in conjunction with certain broadcast channels.
Such interactive services include betting, customer services, Following its acquisition of Video Networks Ltd the operator of the HomeChoice interactive advertising, games, competitions, voting, and quizzes.
platform, Tiscali UK Limited Tiscali re-branded the platform as Tiscali TV on 1 March 2007.
Tiscali now distributes pay television and broadband access Sky Active is currently offered at no additional charge to all of our DTH services across its whole unbundled local loop network.
Each viewers telephone line acts as the return path for these Carphone Warehouse Group plc Carphone Warehouse announced that it had interactive services, via a modem in the set-top box.
completed its acquisition of Tiscalis UK business including Tiscali TV.
Third party channels and third party stand-alone interactive portals such as Under arrangements in respect of Tiscali TV, we have access to the Tiscali TV PlayJam, Teletext Holidays, Ladbrokes, Directgov, and NHS Direct Interactive platform to enable us to retail certain of the Sky Premium Channels to make use of the interactive potential of the digital DTH platform.
Third party customers who already subscribe to Tiscali TV services.
In addition, we are broadcasters such as the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, Nickelodeon, and the Disney provided with certain customer management, billing and sales agency services Channel have launched interactive services on our DTH platform.
Third party in respect of our customers receiving Sky Premium Channels via its platform.
In channels may offer such interactivity in conjunction with Sky Active or provide return for these services, we pay a xed monthly fee per subscriber who their interactive services independently, including making use of competing subscribes to a Sky Premium Channel on the Tiscali TV platform.
interactive infrastructures connected to our DTH platform.
We also have Sky By Wire offerings available via a number of other platforms in Sky Betting and Gaming Ireland Magnet Networks Limited, Smart Telecom, Broadworks Communications The Group offers a range of betting and gaming services under the Sky Bet, and SCTV Digital.
Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands in relation to which the Group acts as bookmaker and operator.
The Sky Bet xed odds sports betting Easynet service is licensed by the UK Gambling Commission and is available across The Group completed its acquisition of Easynet Group plc now Easynet Group multiple platforms, including by means of set-top boxes including Sky and Limited Easynet in January 2006.
Founded in 1994, Easynet is an Sky HD, by telephone, WAP and on the internet.
Customers can also bet on international managed network and hosting company.
Easynet has operations in virtual dog and horse racing on the Sky Vegas channel.
Skys gaming operations, ten countries UK, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, Italy, British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 13 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 14 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy Online We own and operate a number of established websites including sky.
Switzerland, US and China enabling companies to connect their sites to a high quality, secure and reliable Multi-protocol Label Switching MPLS network.
Sky launched a full-service online portal in October 2007 encompassing e-mail, Easynet offers a full portfolio of managed network and hosting services search and other new channels such as money, motoring, property and travel to including national and cross border IP virtual private networks, internet sit alongside skysports.
connectivity, carrier services, hosting and co-location in purpose built data centre facilities, managed video conferencing and security solutions to large Sky also extended its commitment to protection of its customers by introducing national and international businesses.
the Sky Security Centre where users can obtain information and products relating to online security and protection.
In the UK, the Group engages in local loop unbundling LLU, which involves placing equipment in BT exchanges enabling the Group to offer differentiated Mobile networks services to businesses and consumers.
As at 30 June 2009, the Group through Sky Anytime on Mobile and Sky Mobile TV its acquisition of Easynet and LLU that has been carried out by the Group since Sky Anytime on Mobile is a mobile phone application that provides access to Sky that acquisition had unbundled 1,193 exchanges.
Sports, Sky News, Sky1 and Sky Movies mobile content.
This offers news and entertainment information on compatible mobile handsets.
It also allows Sky Broadband customers to access the 7-day TV guide.
It is available at no extra cost to our We launched Sky Broadband, our broadband internet access service in 2006.
The application is available across all mobile networks to The service is available to all of our DTH customers in the UK.
customers with a compatible handset with mobile internet access via GPRS or third generation cellular telephone systems 3G.
For DTH customers covered by our broadband network, three different broadband products are available: Sky Broadband Base: Sky Broadband In addition, customers on Vodafone, Orange, 3 or T-mobile mobile networks in Everyday: and Sky Broadband Unlimited.
Sky Broadband Base costs 5 per the UK or the Vodafone network in Ireland and with a compatible mobile month with download speeds of up to 2Mb s and 2GB monthly usage.
Sky handset can subscribe to Sky Mobile TV.
Sky Mobile TV offers over 25 Broadband Everyday costs 10 per month and offers download speeds of up to channels streamed direct to the customers mobile phone.
Depending on the 10Mb s and 10GB monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Unlimited costs 15 per customers mobile network they can subscribe to up to four packages which cost month and offers download speeds of up to 20Mb s and unlimited monthly from 3 to 5 per month or on a daily or weekly basis in Ireland.
If a DTH customer with Sky Broadband also takes a Sky Talk calls product they currently receive a 5 discount on their monthly Sky Broadband We also offer 24-7 Football.
This allows customers to watch football clips on subscription for as long as they continue to take that Sky Talk product.
It is available on all mobile networks in the UK and certain Irish networks and you do not need to be a DTH customer to Set up costs for Sky Broadband vary between 0 and 60 according to the Sky register.
UK customers can either subscribe for 5 a month or buy each clip for Broadband product taken, the other services to which the relevant customer 0.50. subscribes and whether the Sky Broadband customer is adding the service or taking up the service at the point of first subscription to Sky or as an existing We also syndicate various content alerts, text based and video clips under our DTH customer.
brands to mobile operator portals.
As at 30 June 2009, our broadband network covered approximately 72% of UK Cable distribution households.
UK VM provides both analogue and digital cable services across its cable systems We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to our DTH customers in the UK who are and accounts for the majority of our wholesale revenue, which is revenue not within the coverage area of our broadband network.
Sky Broadband Connect derived from the supply of Sky Channels to UK and Irish cable platforms.
On 28 offers an equivalent service to Sky Broadband Everyday and costs 17 per February 2007, our agreements with VM for the distribution of the Sky Basic month.
Sky Broadband Connect customers will be offered Sky Broadband Base, Channels on its cable systems expired, though VM continued to carry versions of Sky Broadband Everyday or Sky Broadband Unlimited if and when our all the Sky Premium Channels.
On 4 November 2008, the Group announced that broadband network extends to their area.
it had entered into a new agreement to supply VM with certain of the Sky Basic Channels to take effect on 13 November 2008 and run until 12 June 2011.
In Sky Talk scal 2009, we derived 206 million in subscription fees from cable operators Sky Talk is a telephony service available to all of Skys DTH customers in the UK.
We estimate, based on public disclosures by VM and the Sky Talk Freetime offers DTH customers free for up to one hour per call UK number of cable homes reported to us by other cable operators, that, as of 30 evening and weekend calls and Sky Talk Unlimited offers DTH customers June 2009, VM subscribers represented greater than 99% of all cable television unlimited UK calls for up to one hour per call and unlimited calls to certain subscribers in the UK.
VM also carries versions of Sky Premium Channels on its international destinations for 5 a month.
digital networks and Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 on its analogue network.
In October 2007 the Group launched Sky Talk Line Rental, an opportunity for Cable operators are able to offer their subscribers any choice or combination of DTH customers to take their telephony line rental directly from Sky.
This is the Sky Premium Channels pursuant to the rate card terms on which we supply currently available for 10 a month to DTH customers who also take a Sky Talk such channels.
The Sky Basic Channels are not included in our current product.
wholesale rate card and we negotiate separate commercial arrangements with each cable operator for the carriage of these channels.
14 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 15 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% We have contracts with Smallworld, Newtel and Wightcable for their distribution DTH include Sky News, and a range of television and radio channels provided of all of the Sky Basic Channels.
These three regional cable operators operate by, among others, the BBC and ITV.
Access to the encrypted signals of Sky Three, the only other major pay TV cable services outside the VM network, covering the Channel 4 and five is available as a result of the provision of a digital satellite Borders region, Jersey and the Isle of Wight respectively.
viewing card, which we provide as part of the package.
The purchasers of this proposition are not obliged to subscribe to our pay television service: however, In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number of the proposition offers an easy upgrade path to our DTH pay television service.
These are generally smaller cable operators that have limited channel capacity when compared with digital satellite or digital Emerging forms of distribution cable and accordingly do not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
We are also evaluating various other possible new means of distributing our services other than by DTH, cable, DSL and DTT, such as wireless broadband Ireland using Wimax or other similar technologies, mobile TV using technologies such We currently have arrangements in place with UPC Communications Ireland as Digital Video Broadcasting for Handhelds DVB-H, MediaFLO by Limited UPC for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky Channels, including Qualcomm, the internet, IP Wireless TDtv, General Packet Radio Service Sky Basic and Sky Premium Channels, to their subscribers over the legacy GPRS and UMTS 3G mobile telephony.
networks of ntl Ireland and Chorus previously the two leading Irish cable operators but which were brought under the common ownership of UPCs We currently broadcast certain of our channels online on Sky Player see Digital parent company, Liberty Global Inc. in December 2005.
UPC operates both Subscriber line and other xed line distribution Sky Player above.
analogue and digital cable services in Ireland.
Recently we announced that Sky Player will be available on Xbox later this year.
In addition, several of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number of local cable networks in Ireland.
These are generally smaller cable operators that have We also participate actively in the Digital Video Broadcasting DVB limited channel capacity when compared with digital satellite or digital cable standardisation group both in the various working groups and at the level of the and accordingly do not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
DVBs Steering Board, which gives us early exposure to other emerging technologies.
In Ireland, cable subscriber fees for the Sky Premium Channels are charged on a per subscriber per channel package basis.
The level of prices charged to cable Seasonality operators for most Sky Channels is lower than in the UK.
Historically DTH customer subscriptions to our channels have tended to be higher in the first half of our scal year, which, as a result of us expensing the DTT distribution cost of acquiring customers as incurred, has tended to provide a modest We broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News and weighting of profit towards the second half of the year.
There can be no Sky Three, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK.
These channels are assurance that these trends will continue in the future.
broadcast on a DTT multiplex for which the licence is held by Arqiva Services Limited which owns and operates shared wireless communications and Marketing broadcast infrastructure.
The principal types of marketing used by us to promote our products and services are press including both national and regional newspapers and The channels broadcast via DTT by us, together with a number of other channels magazines, media inserts, door drops, direct mailings, outdoor activity such broadcast free-to-air via DTT by other broadcasters, are marketed to consumers as billboards and bus backs, on-air advertising on both national and regional under the generic brand Freeview.
In February 2007, we announced that we radio and television channels on both promotional and commercial airtime, were developing plans to replace these three channels with new pay TV outbound calling, online advertising on both third party websites and on channels on the DTT platform.
An application to Ofcom to amend our Digital sky.
com, advertising in our customer magazine, point of sale advertising in Television Programme Services licence DPS to enable us to launch these pay retail outlets which sell our products and services and Sky retail stores.
TV channels on the DTT platform was submitted in April 2007.
In the second consultation document issued in September 2008 in relation to this proposal, Advertising Ofcom took the approach that it was highly unlikely that any existing or potential Advertising sales competitor would be able to compete effectively with Skys proposed pay TV In scal 2009, we derived 308 million of our revenue from advertising sales service on DTT, and so indicated that, in light of Ofcoms review of the pay TV 2008: 328 million.
industry, it was most likely to full its regulatory duties by consenting to the proposal but only subject to effective fullment of certain conditions, notably the We sell advertising for all of the 26 Sky Channels as well as for their introduction of its proposed wholesale must-offer arrangement and the use of multiplexes around all programmes broadcast on these channels.
We also act simulcrypt to allow other pay TV retailers on DTT to access Skys premium sports as the advertising sales representative for certain third party channels.
We sell and movies channels using their own conditional access systems.
Ofcom has advertising time across all of the Sky Channels and third party channels since announced in June 2009 that it intends to complete its latest represented by us, and tailor distribution according to the target audience an consultation on the pay TV review before it concludes its assessment of this advertiser is trying to reach.
proposal and publishes a further statement on our application see Government regulation Broadcasting Act licences below.
According to BARB estimates, across all UK Multi-Channel Homes, our average share for all of the Sky Channels of commercial audiences excluding those of Free-to-view satellite proposition the BBC for scal 2009 was 11.15%, an increase from 11% at the end of the We offer purchasers a freesat proposition with access to over 270 free-to-view previous scal year.
Our customers households tend to be younger and more television and radio channels including regional variants and interactive afuent than the average UK household and tend to over-represent the 16-34 services, without a monthly subscription fee.
Consumers can purchase a year old, ABC1 i. e. upmarket and male demographic proles sought by many package of digital satellite reception equipment, including a digital satellite advertisers.
smartcard and standard installation, for 150.
The free-to-view channels on British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 15 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 16 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy There are areas in the UK and Ireland where it may not be economically feasible to offer cable television services, including some rural areas.
There are also continued certain areas in the UK and Ireland, such as conservation areas, where, due to Sponsorship sales planning and local regulations, DTH satellite equipment may not be installed.
In scal 2009, we derived 30 million of revenue from sponsorship 2008: According to Ofcom, cable networks currently cover approximately 50% of UK 30 million, which is included in advertising sales revenue.
Approximately 13% of UK homes currently subscribe to a cable television service, whilst approximately 35% of Irish homes currently subscribe We acquire programme sponsors for the Sky Channels and work alongside the to cable or MMDS television services.
sales teams of partner channels such as National Geographic Channel, Discovery Channel, The History Channel and Hallmark to help secure broadcast In 2005, ntl and Telewest launched a pull video on demand service in the UK.
This VOD service has now been rolled out to all of VMs digital TV subscribers.
The VM VOD services include movie and television programme content and Programme sponsorship is generally either title sponsorship e. g. Nintendo provide viewers with pause and rewind functionality.
Digital cable subscribers to Wii Gladiators or themed sponsorship e. g. Sci Fi programming on Sky1 whom the services are available do not need to upgrade their equipment to sponsored by EA Games.
receive the services though some VOD services are only available for an additional fee depending on the basic package subscribed to.
As an additional Competition service, VM also offers V, a HD PVR set-top box which enables its Introduction subscribers to record programming and watch HD content on the VM platform.
Sky is a channel provider, a distributor of television services and a DTH 611,900 VM subscribers had a V PVR at the end of March 2009. satellite platform service provider.
Sky also offers broadband and telephony services to its DTH customers, as well as a range of other services including IPTV services variants of video on demand VOD via the set-top box and online, games via Two operators have developed the capability to deliver linear television both interactive TV and the internet, and betting and gaming services via TV, channels via their DSL networks to homes: Kingston Communications in telephone and the internet.
Kingston-upon-Hull which closed its TV service in April 2006 and Tiscali through the acquisition of Video Networks Ltd VNL in August 2006.
Tiscali Sky competes with a number of communications and entertainment companies was acquired by Carphone Warehouse in July 2009. to secure a supply of content, for audiences for that content, for advertising sales and for customers to its content distribution, broadband and telephony Tiscalis service was re-branded in March 2007 as TiscaliTV previously branded services.
This competitive set is summarised below under the following as HomeChoice and offers access to a range of broadcast channels and videoheadings: on-demand content, including movies, packaged together with broadband internet access and telephony.
According to Ofcom, as at March 2009, 100,000 competition from other video distributors and video distribution channels: television homes in the UK were viewing linear television via a DSL platform.
competition from broadband and telephony xed and mobile providers: competition from other broadcasters: and Other operators have developed or are investigating the capability to combine competition from sellers of advertising air time.
linear television channels delivered over the DTT platform and on-demand video services including paid for on-demand video services delivered via a In recent years, large parts of telecoms network infrastructure have been DSL connection.
The principal operator with services currently available is BT, upgraded from circuit-switched networks to packet-switched IP networks.
which launched its service BT Vision in December 2006 and had 423,000 These IP networks are able to carry video content in addition to voice and other subscribers at the end of March 2009.
BTs service also incorporates PVR data and, together with the digitalization of content, have facilitated a functionality and VOD services.
convergence between media and telecoms companies.
Programming available over the internet This technical convergence has also increased the propensity for companies to Broadband-enabled telephone lines, principally using DSL technology, are being offer a bundle of services to customers typically, a triple play of broadband used to deliver video content to consumers.
This includes content delivered on access, telephony and video content as they seek to make efficient use of their an on-demand basis and broadcast content.
It also includes delivery of networks.
content to consumers PCs, and to their television sets, via compatible set-top boxes.
Competition from other video distributors and video distribution channels Internet services have grown signicantly in the UK in the recent past, both in Pay services terms of the number of providers, and the number of users.
Whilst consumer Cable Services broadband DSL access remains principally focused on the provision of internet Cable operators compete with Sky as an alternative service to DTH distribution.
access, several operators have developed the capacity to deliver digital television via DSL lines.
In the UK, the principal cable operator is now VM, which was formed as a result of the merger of ntl and Telewest.
VM provides both analogue and digital cable The increase in the average speed of internet connections and the emergence of television services in the UK.
In Ireland cable television services are provided new codecs such as MPEG-4 and WM9 means that consumers can also principally by UPC Broadband a division of Liberty Global Inc. via its UPC increasingly download video or watch streamed video over the internet.
Ireland, Chorus and ntl Ireland subsidiaries.
These offer both analogue and Additionally, the use of peer-to-peer technology for both legitimate and digital cable and multipoint microwave distribution system MMDS television illegitimate video downloading is growing in popularity.
16 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 17 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Terrestrial broadcasters are making a selection of their programming available DTT for download or streaming it via their websites, using a mixture of pay and freeTop Up TV which launched in March 2004 offers a pay television service via to-air business models.
Channel 4s 4oD service is available to PC, Mac and DTT.
Top Up TV changed its business model from the provision of pay linear Linux users offering a free 30 day catch up streaming and download service for television channels delivered via DTT into a VOD service with content programmes currently broadcast on its linear channels and access to its archive downloaded using DTT capacity to the set-top box where it is stored on a hard of original programming.
In June 2009, Channel 4 announced that it will make disk and made available for viewing.
Following the change, customers must now its entire archive content c4,000 hours available for free on 4oD not including purchase a new Top Up TV set-top box, available since October 2006, to receive US series.
It charges a fee per download for episodes of its acquired series the service.
The customer can use the set-top box as a PVR.
The set-top box also outside the 30 day catch up period and for rental of movie titles.
Downloaded features conditional access technology allowing customers to subscribe to such episodes are available to watch on the users PC for 48 hours.
4oD is also pay linear television channels as are available on DTT.
available on Virgin Media, BT Vision and Tiscali TV.
Other DTH pay TV providers The BBC launched its iPlayer service in December 2007 offering a large Partly as a result of Skys regulatory obligations to offer conditional access selection of TV and radio content for free via a seven-day catch-up service that services, the digital satellite platform is an open platform and there are makes BBC content available via streaming and download.
It is available to PC, alternative subscription retail packages on that platform available from retailers Mac and Linux users.
Content that the BBC makes available through its iPlayer other than Sky.
Sky competes with these subscription retail packages which application is currently also made available on the Virgin Media and BT Vision include the Zee TV and Playboy packages and up to June 2009 included Setanta television platforms and on the Apple iPhone, iPod Touch, Nintendo Wii and Sports for subscription revenue.
In 2009, the BBC made some HD content available on the iPlayer.
The BBC also streams BBC3 and the BBC News Channel as a simulcast DVDs online and is beta testing online simulcasts of BBC1, BBC2 and BBC4.
DVD sales and rentals, which have largely replaced sales of video cassettes, have performed well in the UK.
In addition to offering consumers an alternative ITV relaunched its VOD offering as ITV Player, providing a streamed 30 day source of programming to television services, the DVD window for new movies catch up service for its content via its website.
Content from ITV Player is also generally starts before both the pay television window and the pay-per-view or available on Virgin Media as part of its seven day catch-up service and on BT VOD television window.
This window, which has been brought forward by some Vision.
studios in recent years, can start as soon as three months following a movies UK cinema release.
Sky has, to date, been able to develop a significant customer Fives catch-up service Demand Five provides entertainment content on a free base for its pay-per-view services and movie channels, notwithstanding eight-day catch-up basis including content from the US.
Outside this window, competition from the DVD industry.
However, such services will come under titles are available on a PPV basis.
Users can also pay to access some increasing pressure as EST electronic sell through and VOD offerings continue programming before it is broadcast on one of Fives linear channels.
Some titles to become more widely available from services such as Lovelm, a subscription are available to own and some are available in HD.
The BBC, ITV and Channel 4 have also made some of their series available to Free-to-air services Apples iTunes service in the UK on a download-to own-basis enabling users to As a result of the availability of free-to-air television channels, some consumers watch programmes on their PC or portable Apple device.
choose to rely entirely on free-to-air services for television viewing and video services rather than choosing also to subscribe to a pay television service.
In November 2007, BBC Worldwide, ITV and Channel 4 announced plans to Currently in the UK the principal means of delivering free-to-air television are: launch a joint venture VOD offering for PCs and later for set-top boxes with the analogue television services, DTT, freesat propositions consisting of a service working title of Project Kangaroo.
The service was intended to aggregate from Sky and a separate proposition from the BBC and ITV that launched in May content from each of the parties and offer third party content using a mix of ad- 2008 and video services online.
funded, download to own and download to rent models.
In February 2009, the Competition Commission CC blocked Project Kangaroo, stating that it would Analogue television services threaten competition in the UK VOD market.
Five analogue terrestrial channels and regional variants are broadcast throughout the UK, although channel five is unavailable in some areas and In December 2008, the BBC, ITV and BT announced their plans to launch a joint bilingual channel S4C is broadcast instead of Channel 4 in Wales.
Additional venture known as Project Canvas.
It intends to promote a standards based local analogue terrestrial channels are broadcast in Northern Ireland.
open environment to bring on-demand and internet-based content to the TV via a broadband connected digital device.
The BBC Trust is currently assessing the The number of homes using analogue terrestrial as a primary TV reception proposal from the BBC Executive to form the joint venture.
means has fallen as adoption of digital multi-channel TV services has grown.
On 6 April 2009 Ofcom reported that, at 31 March 2009, analogue terrestrial was There are also a number of new operators offering a TV-like experience online.
the main TV reception means in 2.9 million UK homes, down 18% since Babelgum has launched offering video content for free online.
The discontinuation of analogue television broadcasting is is only a limited amount of content available on this service in the UK.
We also proceeding on a region by region basis with completion planned in 2012. expect Hulu a successful free online VOD service to launch in the UK later in 2009.
Hulu is currently only available in the US.
Four analogue terrestrial channels are broadcast throughout the Republic of Ireland.
On 17 June 2008, the Commission for Communications Regulation Several operators offer video content over the internet, such as YouTube, which announced that, at 31 March 2008, analogue terrestrial was the main TV service compete for consumers leisure time.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 17 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 18 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy television and radio services broadcast free-to-air via satellite to the UK and ROI.
There are now over 250 such services.
In October 2004, Sky launched a continued hardware and installation proposition which enables households who wish to Freeview receive free-to-air television and radio services via satellite to do so without In the UK, free-to-air channels on the DTT platform are marketed under the taking a Sky subscription.
There are over 40 TV channels available in total as part of this offering, although availability varies regionally, and over 20 radio channels.
In May 2008, the BBC and ITV began promoting the availability of new set-top There are also several television channels available on a regional basis within boxes and IDTV with built in DTH satellite tuners, which also receive a number the UK.
of television and radio services that are broadcast to the UK and ROI free-to-air via satellite.
These set-top boxes do not contain conditional access technology Freeview services are currently able to be received by around 75% of UK homes.
and therefore cannot be used to receive pay TV channels broadcast via satellite.
It is anticipated that this will increase signicantly by 2012, as the process of discontinuing analogue television broadcasting progressively in different regions HD receiving equipment enables consumers to view the BBC HD channel and a of the UK is completed digital switchover.
Digital switchover will release red-button ITV HD service, the latter of which is currently exclusive to the service.
radio spectrum currently used to broadcast analogue television services, which could be used for a number of purposes: for example, to expand the number of In order to be received by the new BBC ITV freesat set-top boxes, existing channels broadcast via DTT, to allow the broadcast of HD services via DTT, to channels broadcast via satellite need to be congured to appear on both increase the spectrum available for mobile communications i. e. mobile, platforms.
Currently, the new set-top boxes and IDTVs can receive more than broadband and telephony, or for a mobile television service or a mix of these 140 TV and radio channels.
Ofcom has awarded spectrum to the BBC, the Channel 3 licensees ITV, stv and UTV, Channel 4 and S4C and Channel 5 to launch four HD services on Competition from broadband and telephony providers DTT in total.
The BBC, the Channel 3 licensees and Channel 4 are expected to Broadband and telephony services launch services in the Granada region in late 2009.
Coverage will expand to Sky competes with other providers of broadband internet access and xed other regions as digital switchover progresses.
These include BT, VM, Carphone Warehouse, Tiscali Tiscalis UK operations were acquired by Carphone Warehouse in July 2009, In November 2007, Whitehaven and Copeland became the first area within the Orange and O2.
Sky does not currently offer these services in the Republic of UK to have the signal for analogue terrestrial television switched off.
switchover continued in the West Country in April 2009 with the BBC2 analogue signal being switched off in Torbay and South Devon.
The target for full digital Broadband switchover is 2012, with a phased switchover taking place in the run up to this According to the Ofce of National Statistics, broadband internet connections date.
accounted for 95% of all internet connections in the UK and dial-up connections accounted for 5% of all connections at December 2008.
In order to receive Freeview services consumers purchase either a set-top box, which is relatively inexpensive, or a television set with a built in DTT tuner an Fixed broadband in the UK is primarily offered via DSL or cable.
Cable coverage Integrated Digital TV, or IDTV.
Customers also have to ensure that they in the UK is 50%, with VM the main cable operator.
BT provides DSL services, have a suitable aerial to receive the signals it is estimated that an aerial with the BT network covering 99.8% of the population.
Other DSL providers are upgrade, where necessary, costs 150 on average.
able to make use of the BT network to provide their services, either taking a regulated wholesale product from BT or installing their own equipment in BT In addition, in May 2007, the joint venture behind the Freeview brand launched local exchanges and rent the last mile from BT at regulated prices a process a separate brand called Freeview Playback which has since been rebranded known as Local Loop Unbundling LLU.
Freeview and which certain suppliers are able to use to market DTT PVRs.
PVRs which meet specic quality and functionality criteria are able to use the Sky uses full and partial LLU.
Under full LLU both the telephony and broadband Freeview logo for marketing purposes.
services delivered over the copper line are unbundled: under partial LLU only the broadband service is unbundled.
Sky has fully unbundled 610 on-net Take-up of Freeview services has grown quickly since its launch in October exchanges and expects to complete the upgrade of all its exchanges by the end 2002.
Ofcom reported that, at 31 March 2009, 17.7 million homes were viewing of December 2009.
Other significant unbundlers are Carphone Warehouse DTT on at least one device and Freeview was the sole means of receiving digital 1,705 exchanges unbundled at 31 March 2009, Tiscali UK 946 as at 30 June multichannel TV services in 9.7 million UK homes.
2009 and Cable & Wireless C&W 802 exchanges on completion of roll out.
C&W offers a wholesale LLU service to other operators and in May 2007 agreed a There is currently no DTT service in Ireland but DTT pilot projects have been 4-year deal to provide this service to VM for areas outside of their cable ongoing since August 2006.
In July 2008 the Broadcasting Commission of network.
Ireland announced its decision to award licences to operate three DTT multiplexes to Boxer DTT Limited.
Separately, RT was assigned a single DTT According to Point Topic a broadband analysis company, there were 17.7 multiplex to make the four existing analogue terrestrial free-to-air channels in million residential and small and medium-sized enterprises SME broadband Ireland available.
In April 2009, Boxer DTT Limited withdrew from the operation connections in the UK as at 31 March 2009, of which 21% were BT Retail DSL: of three of the four DTT multiplexes in Ireland after failing to reach agreement 36% were other BT Wholesale provided DSL excl.
LLU : 17% were via VM cable with the BCI.
The BCI has since awarded the licences to the OneVision and 26% were classied as other mainly LLU.
consortium Arqiva, Eircom, Setanta and TV3.
On 28 July 2009, Ofcom reported that the estimated average broadband speed Free-to-view satellite propositions in April 2009 was 4.1Mbit s. Currently Sky Broadbands highest download speed All households with Sky DTH set-top boxes including Sky customers, former Sky is up to 20Mbit s. Speeds available from providers are expected to increase customers, and households who have never been Sky customers receive further, particularly from LLU and cable operators.
VM launched its 50Mbit s 18 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 19 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% broadband product in January 2009.
BT continues to roll out its 21st Century In December 2006, BT launched BT Vision, a hybrid DTT broadband television Network and in June 2009 announced that it would offer 40% of its UK service.
BT Vision provides users with access to Freeview services on DTT broadband customers a 20Mbit s service.
In July 2009, its also announced plans through a set-top box in addition to access to VOD content over BTs DSL to offer bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC to 1.5 million homes by summer 2010 network.
BT has set a medium term goal of 2-3 million subscribers for BT delivering a 40Mbit s service.
This will expand to 10 million homes by 2012.
In Vision and had an installed base of 423,000 at the end of March 2009.
July 2009, BT commenced trials of a 40Mbit s FTTC network in London and Cardiff.
Separately, BT is continuing its trial in Ebbseet in Kent of a bre-toTiscali now owned by Carphone Warehouse offers a triple play package the-premises FTTP technology, offering speeds of up to 100Mbit s. A further containing telephony, internet access packages including both a dial-up and two FTTP trials are planned for March 2010 for 40,000 homes in areas yet to be broadband package providing up to 8Mb s broadband and a selection of TV announced.
Fixed telephony Competition from Dual Play providers The majority of xed telephony services in the UK are provided by BT.
Other In addition to triple quad play providers, some operators provide customers providers can offer telephony services via Carrier Pre Select CPS or using BT with two services typically these are communications providers offering Wholesales Wholesale Calls product, whereby the customer pays them for calls broadband and telephony services.
but continues to pay BT for line rental: via Wholesale Line Rental WLR, whereby the customer pays them for line rental this can be combined with CPS Carphone Warehouse, acquired internet service provider AOL UK in October or Wholesale Calls to cover calls and line rental : and via Full LLU, whereby the 2006.
AOL UK is currently run as a separate brand to CPWs own TalkTalk brand.
customer pays them for calls and line rental.
There are three ways in which Sky CPW also acquired Tiscalis UK business in July 2009 taking CPWs broadband provides the Sky Talk calls service to its customers: by means of a fully subscriber base to 4.25 million.
unbundled line: via a calls service using the Wholesales Calls product provided to Sky by BT Wholesale: or via a calls service using a CPS service provided to Sky O2 UK acquired by Telefnica of Spain in 2006 moved into the broadband by Thus PLC now part of C&W.
In the last two cases, customers pay Sky for calls sector by purchasing Be, a telecoms network provider, and subsequently and the service may be provided either with or without a Sky line rental service launched O2 Broadband in October 2007.
The service reported 404,484 provided by means of BT Wholesales WLR product.
customers at the end of March 2009.
The total number of BT Retail and Wholesale lines was 26.3 million at end of In January 2007, Vodafone UK launched the broadband service, Vodafone At March 2009, according to BT.
Of these, 20.7 million were BT Retail lines and Home, for Vodafone mobile contract customers.
Vodafone at Home is delivered 5.6 million were WLR lines.
The number of CPS lines for the same period was using a wholesale DSL service from BT rather than LLU.
The service is available 4.0 million i. e. 15% of lines.
VM reported 4.2 million telephony customers as to 99% of UK households via BT Wholesales broadband network.
The number at 30 March 2009. of customers to the service has not been published.
Mobile telephony Orange UK offers Broadband Unlimited, a service providing wireless There are five mobile network operators MNOs active in the UK: Vodafone: broadband access at up to 8Mb through the Livebox wireless router which Orange: T-Mobile: O2: and 3 Hutchison 3G only.
As at 31 March 2009 O2 had also serves as a VoIP telephony port.
France Telecom, parent company of Orange the most subscribers in the UK 20.4 million followed by Vodafone UK, also offers IPTV services in France.
Orange stated in April 2008 that it 18.7 million, T-Mobile 16.7 million, Orange 15.9 million and 3 Hutchison planned to launch an IPTV service in the UK but later announced that roll out of 5.4 million at the end of December 2008. an IPTV service was not imminent.
There are several mobile virtual network operators MVNOs who take Competition from other broadcasters capacity from MNOs but do not own their own network.
VM is the largest of Sky competes with other broadcasters for the acquisition of programming and these, with 4.4 million subscribers as at 31 March 2009.
VM uses T-Mobiles programming rights for viewers, for distribution and for advertising and network and its subscribers are included in the T-Mobile total above.
Mobile TV services are available from several UK operators via third generation In both the UK and Ireland, the television channels and other audio-visual cellular telephone networks 3G networks.
Sky Mobile TV packs, which service providers with the largest audience shares are traditionally analogue include a mix of content from Sky Sports, Sky News and other third party pay terrestrial channels, which are broadcast free-to-air.
In the UK, these channels television channels, are available on Vodafone, Orange, T-Mobile and 3 UK and are BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and five, while in Ireland these are RTE1 and compete with other mobile TV and video offerings on those networks.
Network 2, the Irish language channel TG4, and the commercial channel TV3.
In the UK, as well as being available via analogue terrestrial television, the five Mobile broadband traditionally analogue terrestrial channels are also available via DTH, cable, DTT All five mobile network operators O2, Orange, 3, T-Mobile and Vodafone offer and DSL, and, in the case of DTH and DTT, on a free-to-air basis.
mobile broadband products on a pre-pay and on a contract basis.
According to GfK, mobile broadband sales for the year ending March 2009 totalled Within UK Multi-Channel Homes, the Sky Channels for the purposes of this 1.8 million.
paragraph, including Sky Box Ofce and Sky Box Ofce Events, but excluding SkyPoker.
com and Sky Vegas in aggregate attract viewing levels which are Competition from Triple Play Quad Play providers comparable to some of the traditionally analogue terrestrial channels.
As a result of media and telecoms convergence described in the introduction, Sky now offers TV, xed telephony and broadband internet access to our The UK analogue terrestrial broadcasters also own and operate a range of customers as part of a package which is sometimes referred to as a triple play.
digital-only channels that are available via DTH, cable, DTT and DSL, and, in the VM, Tiscali and BT also offer a triple play service VM also offers a quad play case of DTH and DTT, on a free-to-air basis.
These channels are cross-promoted which, in addition to TV, xed telephony and broadband internet access, also by their analogue associated channels.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 20 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy and should allow us to develop new applications for the platform much more quickly than at present and without dependency on single source suppliers.
We continued currently expect Darwin to be deployed into our HD capable set-top boxes in As Sky and other broadcasters all seek a range of compelling programming to calendar year 2010. attract viewers, in both the UK and Ireland, there have been, and may in the future be, bidding competitions and or regulatory intervention which could Encryption of digital services increase our programming acquisition costs, or which could mean that certain VideoGuard is a conditional access technology which can be used to encrypt and programming in which Sky is interested may not be available to us.
decrypt digital television and audio services.
We use it to control DTH viewers access to encrypted satellite non-subscription channels and encrypted digital Competition from other sellers of advertising air time pay and pay-per-view television and audio channels broadcast on digital Our primary competitors for television advertising sales are ITV, which sells satellite for reception in the UK and or Ireland.
advertising on ITV1, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, and CITV, Channel 4 which also sells advertising for E4, More 4 and Film Four and their multiplexes as well as the We use the VideoGuard technology and distribute smartcards in the UK and channels owned by Emap Limited including The Hits and Kerrang!
five which Ireland under an agreement with NDS which expires in 2010, but is renewable, also sells advertising on ver, five USA and their multiplexes, Interactive Digital at our option, for a further three years.
NDS supplies smartcards and undertakes Sales IDS which sells advertising on behalf of the UKTV group of channels ongoing security development and other support services in return for the and the VM TV channels Living, Bravo and Challenge, and Viacom Brand payment of fees by us.
Solutions VBS which sells advertising on behalf of the Paramount, MTV and Nickelodeon channels.
In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of rening and updating the VideoGuard technology in order to restrict unauthorised DTH reception of our Based upon the latest BARB survey estimates, ITV1 and Channel 4 were services.
We take appropriate measures to counter unauthorised reception, available to approximately 25.78 million and 25.70 million television homes including the implementation of over-the-air countermeasures altering respectively, in the UK both digital and analogue, with approximately 95% of authorised smartcards in a manner which then renders counterfeit smartcards the estimated 26 million television homes in the UK receiving an acceptable obsolete and seeking legal remedies, both civil and criminal, reasonably terrestrial analogue signal for five.
In addition, according to BARB survey available to us.
We also periodically replace smartcards in circulation with estimates, as at June 2009, approximately 22.9 million UK homes have access to smartcards containing progressively more sophisticated technology.
Such satellite, cable, or digital terrestrial television.
Both ITV1 and Channel 4 have a replacement has rendered useless all smartcards then in circulation, whether signicantly greater overall UK television viewing share than any individual Sky genuine or counterfeit.
The first periodic replacement of digital smartcards since Channel.
Partly as a result of the ability of ITV1 and Channel 4 to reach almost our digital launch in October 1998 was successfully completed in November all UK television homes, these channels are able to generate greater advertising 2003. revenue than we do.
We also compete with the Sky Distributed Channels and all other commercial channels for television advertising sales.
In April 2009, we commenced our second routine replacement of digital smartcards.
This process is expected to be completed by the end of November Technology and infrastructure 2009 at which point we will switch off the system that supports the old We control access to some DTH channels through the use of a conditional access smartcards, meaning that anyone who has not by then started using their new system, VideoGuard see Encryption of digital services below.
The satellite smartcard will no longer be able to view our services.
In common with our reception equipment provided to DTH customers is owned by them, except for previous experience, this process is likely to result in some additional churn certain aspects such as the smartcard a credit card size plastic card containing a during the period of switch off.
chip that provides conditional access functionality, some of the software in all set-top boxes and a proportion of the hard drive capacity in some of the Sky The new smartcards being deployed include various additional counter-piracy PVRs and Sky HD PVRs.
measures which will provide us with an improved capability to counteract attempts to hack our system.
The Group completed its acquisition of Amstrad plc Amstrad in scal 2008.
The total consideration for the acquisition was 127 million.
Amstrad designs, We seek to work with cable operators in the UK to investigate the use of any develops and sells standard denition and high denition set-top boxes and PVR cable piracy devices.
We believe that we have suffered a loss of wholesale cable set-top boxes and has been a major supplier to the Group for a number of revenue as a result of the availability of cable piracy devices in relation to both years.
analogue and digital cable television services.
We are unable to quantify this loss, including whether or not such loss is material.
We have not to date Our set-top boxes use an EPG which has been and continues to be developed for invoiced any cable operator in respect of such lost cable revenue and therefore, us by NDS Limited NDS and an operating system which we license from such lost revenue has not been recognised within our consolidated financial OpenTV, Inc. OpenTV.
The OpenTV operating system provides a virtual statements.
machine interface which enables applications to be authored once, yet still be capable of running on all our different types of DTH set-top box once the We distribute our channels to cable operators via satellite.
To enable reception application is downloaded to the set-top box.
This simplies the development of of the satellite signal, a smartcard is located at the site of the cable operators applications for the set-top box and ensures universal availability of services to feed into its cable transmission system, permitting decryption of the signal, all DTH set-top boxes.
The operating system in each set-top box is licensed upon which the operator in turn distributes to those of its subscribers often repayment of a per set-top box royalty by the set-top box manufacturer to encrypted who are authorised and equipped to receive the service.
Encryption of channels retailed by third parties We are currently developing with NDS a new operating system for set-top boxes Any potential DTH broadcaster wishing to operate and independently retail an under the project named Darwin.
This new operating system, once downloaded, encrypted television service within the UK and Ireland must either acquire an will mean that we are no longer dependent on the OpenTV operating system alternative encryption and conditional access technology from someone other 20 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 21 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% than us, and build its own decoder base capable of receiving transmissions Capital expenditure programme encrypted using that technology, or, in respect of digital services, contract with We continue to invest consistently in capital expenditure required to support our us for conditional access services in respect of access to the installed growth strategies.
Total capital expenditure for the Group was 411 million in VideoGuard decoder base.
This included 284 million invested in core services, information systems infrastructure: broadcast infrastructure: new product development: and In addition to providing broadcast conditional access services, both for our own investments relating to customer service improvements.
In addition, DTH offerings and those of third parties, we provide digital access control 127 million was invested in new property and property improvements.
services for interactive services produced by us and others, including using a telephone return path to carry out transactions between suppliers and viewers.
In November 2007, the Group began construction work on a building to house These broadcast conditional access and access control services are regulated by studios, production and technical facilities as well as ofce space in Osterley, Ofcom.
See Government regulation Broadcasting and telecommunications Middlesex.
This will consolidate and replace a number of existing properties regulation European Union Electronic Communications Directives.
which are reaching the end of their operational lives.
Given the current conditions in the credit markets and the relative strength of our cash ow, the Satellites project will be nanced internally for the time being although the Groups We contract with SES Astra for the majority of capacity on the satellite intention is to sell and leaseback the property and its freehold when market transponders that we use for digital transmissions for reception by both DTH conditions improve.
During the period to 30 June 2009, total expenditure on this viewers and cable operators.
SES Astra is 100% owned by SES, a Luxembourg project was 92 million which is included within the total estimated company listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris.
We construction cost of around 156 million.
The Group currently expects separate consider that this arrangement with SES Astra, which is discussed below in expenditure of around 77 million in respect of the technical t out which will further detail, is essential to the business of the Group within the meaning of allow the Group to benefit from efficiencies by moving to a wholly digital section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006. production environment.
The facility is due to enter service in 2011.
For the transmission of our DTH service, we have contracted for capacity on 31 As is common with capital expenditure projects of this scale, there are risks that transponders from SES Astra on SES satellites Astra 2A, 2B and 2D.
We have they may not be implemented as envisaged: or that they may not be completed also contracted, via an agreement with Arqiva, for capacity on four transponders either within the proposed timescale or budget: or that the anticipated business on the Eurobird satellite, which is owned and operated by Eutelsat.
In June benets of the projects may not be fully achieved.
2009, we signed a new long term transponder lease arrangement with SES Astra which covers the renewal of the leases on 24 of our transponders.
The The customer management centres and Sky In-Home Service Limited new transponder leases have expiry dates between 2019 and 2025 and thus Our customer management centres are based in Scotland and we also have a provide long term security for the platform.
As part of this new lease new customer management centre in Leeds.
The centres functions include the arrangement we have also signed a new inter-satellite back-up transponder handling of orders from customers, the establishing and maintaining of agreement which provides protection for all of our transponders in the event of customer accounts, invoicing and revenue collection, telemarketing and transponder or satellite failures.
These functions permit the centres to play a key role in both customer acquisition and customer retention.
We provide customer In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that we have contracted to management services for the Sky Channels and the Sky Distributed Channels.
We broadcast Sky Channels, some of our transponder capacity and in some cases also deliver customer services for both our own, and certain third party, all of the capacity on a particular transponder is sub-contracted to third parties interactive television services, our telephony services and our video-streaming for the transmission of other channels or services, including certain of the Sky services.
The customer management centres also provide the distribution of ordered We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer under each of our customer installations into Sky In-Home Service Limited which then provides transponder agreements.
This means that, in the event of satellite or nationwide installation and servicing of digital satellite reception equipment transponder malfunction, our use of these transponders cannot be suspended or directly in customer homes.
Sky In-Home Service Limited also provides an terminated by SES Astra or Eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster with preaftercare service to the DTH customer base in relation to digital satellite emption rights in preference to us.
In addition, in the event of satellite or reception equipment which is both in, and out of, warranty.
transponder malfunction, we have arrangements in place with SES Astra pursuant to which back-up capacity may be available for some of our During the course of the last nine scal years, we have invested more than 300 transponder capacity based on an agreed satellite back-up plan.
million in our customer management centres and systems.
This expenditure has been focused principally on completely replacing the centres existing customer We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that we management and billing systems with new applications and also on improving experience any significant disruption of our transponder capacity.
To date, we the existing physical infrastructure of the centres.
The replacement customer have not experienced any such significant disruption.
However, the operation of management and billing systems are now functioning in line with expectations.
both the Astra and Eutelsat satellites is outside our control and a disruption of transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business, depending Playout and uplink facilities on the number of transponders affected and the duration of the disruption.
Our uplinking facilities, located at Chilworth in southern England, provide uplinking capacity for our digital services to the Astra 2A, 2B and 2D satellites Our transponder agreements with SES Astra provide that our rights are subject as well as Eutelsats Eurobird 1 satellite.
to termination by SES Astra in the event that SES Astras franchise is withdrawn by the Luxembourg government.
Our television channels are distributed from our Osterley and Chilworth sites with each of the sites providing backup service for the other.
The Osterleysourced channels are fed to the uplink sites using a bre link, which is backed up by a diversely routed secondary link in the case of any malfunction in the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 21 Annual Report 2009 U07039 1040 p8-38.
qxp:BSKYB 7 8 09 22:17 Page 22 Bleed: 2.647 mm Scale: 100% Directors report review of the business continued The business, its objectives and its strategy time prior to the expiry of the 2006 PL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of continued the Single Buyer Rule.
This route passes through the other facility so that, in the case of Chilworth being unavailable, the services can be uplinked directly from In February 2009 we successfully bid for five of the six available packages of live the other facility.
audio-visual rights for Premier League football in the UK from the beginning of the 2010 11 season to the end of the 2012 13 season.
We expect the licence in For those third parties to whom we sub-contract transponder capacity, we respect of those packages to include a change of control provision as set out usually have agreements in place to provide uplinking facilities as well.
above in relation to the 2006 PL Licence.
Minority equity investments Revolving Credit Facility ITV On 3 November 2004, the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Sky On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV plc ITV Subscribers Services Limited entered into a revolving credit facility agreement representing 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITV, at a price of 135 pence with Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Deutsche Bank AG per share.
The total consideration paid amounted to 946 million, and was London, JP Morgan plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as mandated lead funded by the Groups existing cash balances and its previously undrawn arrangers and certain other financial institutions as Lenders pursuant to revolving credit facility.
This investment has been subject to an in-depth review which the Lenders agreed to make available to the Company 1 billion to by the CC see Government Regulation Mergers below for further details of renance existing facilities and for general corporate purposes the RCF.
On 19 June 2009, the Company entered into a 750 million forward starting The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value of ITV is syndicated credit facility available for drawing from 30 July 2010 and expiring determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
on 31 July 2012 the Forward Start RCF.
An impairment was first recorded following a review of the carrying value of the investment in ITV at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged Pursuant to both the RCF and the Forward Start RCF, the Lenders can require all decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has amounts outstanding under the RCF and the Forward Start RCF respectively to continued to review that carrying value throughout scal 2008 and scal 2009 be repaid in the event of a change of control of the Company other than in the and has recognised an impairment loss of 191 million in the current year event that News Corporation or any subsidiary or holding company thereof 2008: 616 million.
The impairment loss for the year was determined with acquires such control.
reference to ITVs closing equity share price of 20.0 pence at 27 March 2009, the last trading day of the Groups third scal quarter.
In line with IFRS, all News Corporation voting agreement subsequent increases in the fair value of the ITV investment above the impaired On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. News UK Nominees value have been recorded in the available-for-sale reserve.
At 26 June 2009, the Limited and News Corporation entered into a voting agreement, pursuant to last trading day of the Groups financial year, ITVs closing equity share price which News UK Nominees Limiteds voting rights at any general meeting are was 33.8 pence.
capped at 37.19% the Voting Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting Agreement cease to apply inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC On 12 December 2007, the Group sold its 100% stake in BSkyB Nature Limited, EMTN bond issue the investment holding company for the Groups 50% interest in the NGC-UK On 3 April 2007, the Group established a Euro medium term note programme Partnership.
As consideration for the disposal, the Group received 21% interests the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a standardised in both NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC in documentation platform to allow for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond effect, 21% of National Geographics Channels television operations outside markets.
The maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is the US.
significant agreements On 14 May 2007, the Company issued Eurobonds consisting of 300 million The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following significant guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and maturing on 14 May 2027 the agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Notes.
The Notes were issued under the Groups EMTN Programme.
Company: Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the PL option to require the Company to redeem or at the Companys option purchase In August 2006, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a group subsidiary entered its Notes at its principal amount plus interest for the relevant period if there is a into an agreement the 2006 PL Licence with The Football Association change of control of the Company i which, if the Notes carry an investment Premier League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was awarded grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or four of six available packages of live audio-visual rights for Premier League a withdrawal of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a non-investment football the six packages are together the Live Packages.
grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii where, if the Notes do not carry a The PL will not award all of the Live Packages to a single licensee either on its credit rating, the Company does not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve own or as part of a consortium or through one or more of its related parties such a rating.
February 2008 and November 2008 bond issues Pursuant to the 2006 PL Licence, the PL can suspend and or terminate all of the In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$750 rights which are included in, or exercisable as part of, one of the six available million 6.10% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
Live Packages in the event that a change of control of the Company occurs at any 22 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report 2009
