Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 32 01 Chris Heine is responsible for ICGs Asia Pacic investment business and Intermediate Capital Asia Pacic funds.
He has over 21 years of investment and finance experience of which the last three have been with ICG.
01 Portfolio overview Top 20 Assets Company Country Sector Investment yearm Mdi-Partenaires France Healthcare 2005, 2007 95.5 Elis France Business services 1997, 2002, 92.4 2007 Marken UK Shipping & transportation 2006, 2007 91.4 Bureau Van Dijk Belgium Publishing & printing 2007 88.5 Taiwan Broadband Communications Taiwan Cable operator 2007 82.5 Applus Spain Business services 2007 81.6 Biffa UK Waste management 2008 79.7 BAA UK Shipping & transportation 2006 77.5 Sebia France Healthcare 2001, 2006 62.2 Attendo Sweden Healthcare 2007 61.0 Orizonia Spain Leisure & entertainment 2006 58.1 Materis France Building materials 2003, 2006 57.1 Behavioral Interventions US Government services 2008 54.6 Gala Coral Group UK Leisure & entertainment 2003, 2005 51.2 LabCo France Healthcare 2008 48.4 Minimax Germany Electronics 2006 46.5 Visma Norway Business services 2006 45.1 Medica France Healthcare 2003, 2006 43.0 Ethypharm France Pharmaceutical 2007 43.0 SAG Germany Business services 2008 42.8 Total 1,302.1 carrying value on ICG balance sheet at 31 March 2009 Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 33 02 03 Piers Millar is responsible for ICG Jason Block is responsible for ICGs North minority partners investments, leads American investment business and the the portfolio restructuring team and Companys Investor Management function.
is a member of the Global Investment He has over 12 years of investment Committee.
He has over 11 years experience of which the last two have been of investment experience with ICG.
02 03 Top 10 Equity Assets Company Country Sector Investment yearm Intelsat US Satellites 2008 35.6 Taiwan Broadband Communications Taiwan Cable operator 2007 33.0 Allex UK Electronics 1998, 2007 26.3 Eismann Germany Food retailing 2007 22.3 Marken UK Shipping & transportation 2006, 2007 20.9 Sebia France Healthcare 2001, 2006 19.6 Applus Spain Business services 2007 19.4 Acromas Holdings Ltd UK Leisure & entertainment 2004, 2007 17.0 Biffa UK Waste management 2008 16.7 Van Gansewinkel Netherlands Waste management 2006, 2007 16.0 Total 226.8 carrying value on ICG balance sheet at 31 March 2009 Repayments During the year, repayments and partial repayments of loans and investments amounted to 109m including recoveries.
Loans and or investments to the following companies were repaid or prepaid: Company Country Form of repayment Investment year Repayment Condor UK Secondary buyout 2004 Full GSL UK Trade sale 2007 Full Lowenplay Germany Secondary buyout 2007 Full N&W Global Vending Italy Tertiary buyout 2005 Full Protection One France Trade sale 2005 Full Score France Trade sale 2004 Full Spring UK Final amortisation 1998 Full Thornbury UK Secondary buyout 2002 Full Tunstall UK Tertiary buyout 2000 Full Acteon France Re-organisation 2005 Partial Famosa Spain Renance 2005 Partial Meyn Netherlands Renance 2005 Partial Team Systems Italy Renance 2004 Partial Welzorg Netherlands Renance 2002 Partial Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 34 Case study: Marken Marken is a fast growing specialist logistics and support services company primarily serving the pharmaceutical industry.
With established capabilities in most major markets in the world, Marken is focused on the growth potential of clinical trials in emerging markets.
ICGs relationship with Marken dates back to 2006 when it provided mezzanine finance to support the 3i led buyout from Exel.
The following year, ICG supported the management led buyout of the business from 3i.
Since partnering with ICG, the company has gained market share by moving into new regions, securing long term agreements with major customers, and strengthening the depth of the management team.
In addition, the company has further developed its infrastructure to support its long term growth.
Portfolio overview continued Europe 1st Credit UK Albingia France Sector: Sector: 1st Credit provides outsourcing services Albingia is a leading niche insurance Financial Insurance to financial institutions.
The company provides specialised services Year: 2006 purchases third party debtor books and insurance products to SMEs in France.
fr collects third party debts on a commission ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity www.
Bridgepoint Capital acquired the business to support the leveraged buyout led by Chevrillon 1stcreditltd.
com in a secondary buyout from Gresham.
Acromas AA Saga UK Allflex UK Sector: Sector: AA is the leading provider of roadside Allflex is the worlds leading designer, Leisure & Electronics assistance and personal insurance in the UK.
producer and distributor of animal entertainment Year: 1998, 2007 Saga provides insurance and travel services identification tags.
The company enjoys the Year: 2004, 2007 www.
co. uk exclusively for the over 50s.
ICG provided leading positions in each of its markets.
com mezzanine finance to the buyouts of both the AA provided a mezzanine loan and equity to support www.
It also provided equity to the the management buyout led by Electra Fleming.
When the companies merged in 2007, the mezzanine loans were repaid and ICG retained an equity position in the combined entity.
Acteon France Alma France Sector: Sector: Acteon is a world leader in small equipment Alma is a French consulting company Consumer Business and consumables for dentists.
Acteon is specialising in cost reduction consultancy.
products services positioned in a growing market with an increased The company is a leader in a fast growing Year: 2005 Year: 2007 demand for cosmetic dental care and oral hygiene.
ICG provided mezzanine and equity in www.
com ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support of Candovers buyout.
com support the secondary leveraged buyout led by Edmond fide Rothschild Capital Partners.
A-Katsastus Finland Apem France Sector: Sector: A-Katsastus Group is one of the leading Apem is one of the worlds largest Business Business European vehicle inspection, registration manufacturers of professional switches services services and drivers examination companies.
The company designs, develops, Year: 2005 Year: 2006 Other services include trade-in inspections, quality manufactures and sells professional interface www.
fr consultancy, research and training.
A-Katsastus components dedicated to niche markets such has expanded its activities internationally.
as transportation, defence, security, interactive ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the terminals and healthcare appliances.
ICG provided leveraged buyout led by Bridgepoint Capital.
a warranted mezzanine facility and also invested in equity to support Barclays Private Equity.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 35 ICGs creativity and flexibility enabled us to successfully structure a new transaction that worked for all parties involved.
Simon Mueller Finance Director, Marken Applus Spain BAA UK Sector: Sector: Applus is a leading inspection, certification BAA operates and owns seven airports in the Business Shipping & and technological services company.
UK, including London Heathrow, and has services transport The company has a leading position in both interests in a number of other airports Year: 2007 Year: 2006 the automotive and non destructive testing and overseas.
ICG participated in the subordinated www.
ICG arranged and provided debt arranged when BAA was acquired by mezzanine finance and equity to support the Ferrovial.
Carlyle Group in the leveraged buyout.
Aster Poland Biffa UK Sector: Sector: Aster City Cable is a leading provider of cable Biffa is a leading UK waste management Cable operator Waste television, internet and fixed line telephone business with a principal focus on waste management Year: 2006, 2007 services in Poland.
It benefits from a very stable collection, recycling, treatment and disposal.
pl core customer base to whom it is broadening its ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to www.
ICG provided mezzanine finance support the leveraged buyout of Biffa led by and equity to support the secondary buyout led by Montagu and Global Infrastructure Partners.
In 2007 ICG participated in the recapitalisation.
Attendo Sweden Bodybell Spain Sector: Sector: Attendo is a leading Nordic care and Bodybell is a leading perfumery retail Healthcare Retail healthcare provider.
Attendo Care provides chain in Spain.
The company is consolidating Year: 2007 Year: 2006 elderly, disabled and specialist care in its leadership position through acquisitions.
Attendo MedOne ICG provided mezzanine finance to support bodybell.
com operates outsourced primary, specialist and Nms1 in the recapitalisation of Bodybell and dental healthcare units, and healthcare in the acquisition of Juteco.
staffing services and elderly care units in Finland.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support Industri Kapital.
Aviapartner Belgium Bureau van Dijk Belgium Sector: Sector: Aviapartner is a leading European ground Bureau van Dijk is a leading provider Shipping & Publishing & handling business.
The company serves airlines of customised business information.
transport printing in over 30 European airports.
ICG provided The company provides detailed company, Year: 2005 Year: 2007 mezzanine finance to support the leveraged executive and industry intelligence on over www.
aero mezzanine finance to support the secondary buyout.
ICG also recently invested in the senior debt.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 36 Case study: Bureau van Dijk Bureau van Dijk BvD is a leading provider of customised business information through sophisticated proprietary software.
The companys core competency lies in the aggregation, integration and analysis of financial information on over 50 million companies worldwide.
BvD enjoys a clear leadership position in a niche market, with no competing solutions that match BvDs breadth and coverage of information on private companies.
The business has grown through sales development on core products and the launch of new bundled products.
ICG provided mezzanine finance in 2007 to support the secondary buyout.
Portfolio overview continued Europe continued Casa Reha Germany Dometic Sweden Sector: Sector: Casa Reha is the leading provider of elderly Dometic is the global leader in the supply of Healthcare Manufacturing and inpatient care in Germany.
ICG provided specialist appliances mainly for recreational Year: 2008 Year: 2002, 2005 mezzanine finance and equity to support the vehicles and boats.
com secondary buyout led by HG Capital.
finance to support the acquisition of the company by EQT in 2002, in addition to the secondary buyout led by BC Partners in 2005.
CEPL France DSV Milj Denmark Sector: Sector: Compagnie Europenne fide Prestations DSV Milj is a leading Nordic supplier of soil Business Waste Logistiques CEPL is a contract logistics remediation, raw materials and recycling services management company.
The company specialises in the high products and services.
The company also Year: 2008 Year: 2004 growth, detailed picking segment of the provides related transport services.
dk warehouse logistics industry with a focus on high mezzanine finance to support the management end consumer product segments.
ICG provided buyout led by Triton.
mezzanine finance to support the secondary buyout led by Arcapita.
Courtepaille France easycash Germany Sector: Sector: Courtepaille is a chain of grill restaurants easycash is the leading card payment Restaurants Financial across France that follow a uniform concept.
network service provider in Germany.
services Year: 2001, 2005 ICG provided mezzanine finance to support The company provides merchants with transaction Year: 2008 www.
Barclays Private Equity in 2001 and the processing services, Point of Sales card reading courtepaille.
fide secondary LBO led by ING Parcom in 2005. terminals and payment services factoring, risk management.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to support Warburg Pincus.
Dako Denmark Eismann Germany Sector: Sector: Dako is a global leader in tissue based cancer Eismann is a leading European frozen Healthcare Food retailing diagnostics.
Dako provides reagents, instruments food home delivery company.
Over the last few Year: 2007 Year: 2007 and software for high quality cancer diagnosis and years, the management team has successfully www.
ICG provided expanded its model into France, Spain and Italy.
mezzanine finance and equity to support EQT in ICG provided minority equity and mezzanine the buyout.
finance to support the management led buyout from ECM and Parcom.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 37 ICG has proven to be a strong partner.
BC Partners Elior France Eurofarad France Sector: Sector: Elior is a leading European contract Eurofarad provides customised Hotels & catering Electronics and concession catering and facilities products and technology to the military, Year: Year: 2004 management group.
In 2007 ICG provided aerospace and medical industries.
mezzanine and equity to support the acquisition of ICG provided mezzanine finance and eurofarad.
com the Group by its management alongside equity to support CDC Ixis Private Equity.
Elis France Feu Vert France Sector: Sector: Elis is the European leader in the rental Feu Vert is the largest auto centre operator in Business Retail and cleaning of textiles hygiene services.
The company is also a services Year: 2007 The Company serves a wide range of customers, European leader in the design and distribution of Year: www.
fr including businesses, hotels, restaurants and car and cycling products to mass and specialised 1997, 2002, 2007 healthcare facilities.
Following a tertiary buyout in retailers.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and www.
com 2007, ICG supported Eurazeo in restructuring the equity to support CDC Capital Investissement.
capital structure by taking a majority stake in the resulting senior mezzanine tranche.
Ethypharm France Firth Rixson UK Sector: Sector: Ethypharm is a leading Drug Delivery System Firth Rixson is a leading manufacturer of Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing DDS company.
The company develops and complex metal components.
The company Year: 2007 Year: 2007 manufactures medicinal products specialising serves the aerospace, power generation and www.
ICG provided commercial automotive markets.
com mezzanine finance and equity in support of mezzanine and equity in the secondary buyout Astorgs acquisition of Ethypharm.
led by Oak Hill Capital Partners.
Eurodatacar France FlaktWoods France Sector: Sector: The company provides services that FlaktWoods is a global company providing Insurance Manufacturing complement traditional vehicle theft energy efficient indoor air solutions.
In 2002, ICG provided a mezzanine ICG provided mezzanine and equity to support www.
bond to support the acquisition of the company by the acquisition led by Sagard and Barclays Private eurodatacar.
In 2005, ICG supported Equity in 2007. management in the acquisition of the company with mezzanine finance.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 38 Portfolio overview continued Europe continued Fraikin France HMY France Sector: Sector: Fraikin is one of the largest commercial HMY is the leading French and Spanish Shipping & Manufacturing vehicle fleet services providers in Europe.
manufacturer of retail shelving and transport Year: 2000, 2005 ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to checkouts.
In 2000, ICG provided mezzanine Year: 2007 www.
fr support the secondary management buyout led by financing for secondary buyout to support www.
co. uk CVC Capital Partners.
In 2005, ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the fourth buyout led by Sagard.
Gala Coral Group UK Hune Spain Sector: Sector: Gala Coral Group is the only gambling Hune is one of only two general equipment Leisure & Machinery company in the UK with significant rental companies with a national presence entertainment Year: 2006 businesses in the bookmaking, bingo and in Spain.
The group provides short term Year: 2003, 2005 www.
ICG provided mezzanine finance rental of small and medium sized equipment www.
and equity to support the tertiary buyout led and machinery to construction companies.
co. uk by Candover and Cinven.
In 2005 ICG provided ICG provided senior and mezzanine facilities and mezzanine finance and equity to support the equity to support Advent International and the quartenary buyout led by Permira, followed by management team in acquiring the company from the merger with Coral.
Fides Capital and other family shareholders.
Gaucho UK Indas Spain Sector: Sector: Gaucho is the leading UK based operator Indas manufactures dressings and hygiene Restaurants Healthcare of Argentine restaurants.
ICG provided minority products for hospitals and the retail market.
Year: 2007 Year: 2007 equity to support the management led buyout from It is the leader in the incontinence products market www.
es Phoenix Capital Partners in 2007. in Spain, and distributes its products in over 30 gaucho countries.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and restaurants.
co. uk equity for the primary buyout by Vista Capital.
Geoservices France Inspecta Finland Sector: Sector: Geoservices is a leading provider in the Inspecta is a leading provider of inspection, Oil & gas Business upstream oil industry with a world leading testing and certification services in the services Year: 2005 position in mud logging.
The company offers a wide range Year: 2007 www.
mezzanine finance to support the management of business and health and safety services to a geoservices.
diversified client base across the construction, energy, infrastructure and manufacturing sectors.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support the secondary buyout by 3i.
Gerflor France Interbest The Netherlands Sector: Sector: Gerflor is a leading independent Interbest is the leading provider of roadside Building Advertising manufacturer of PVC flooring.
Gerflor sells advertising masts in The Netherlands.
materials Year: 2007 most of its products to professionals for contract, ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to Year: 1998, 2006 www.
nl sport and transport applications.
In 2006, ICG support Waterland and AlpInvest in the acquisition www.
fr provided mezzanine finance and equity to support of the company.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 39 01 Damien Scaillierez is ICGs Chief Investment officer and chairs the Global Investment Committee.
He has over 15 years of credit experience of which the last 9 have been with ICG.
01 Ista Germany MACH Luxembourg Sector: Sector: Ista is a global services provider for MACH is the world market leader in clearing Utilities Telephone consumption based billing in the sub mobile telephony roaming billing records.
networks Year: 2003 metering and metering industry.
The company The company has a significant proportion of the Year: 2005 www.
fide operates in more than 20 countries, serving more largest GSM operators as customers.
com than 300,000 customers with medium and long MACH acquired End2End, one of Europes leading term contracts.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to service providers for mobile data services.
ICG support CVC Capital Partners.
provided mezzanine finance and equity in a leveraged buyout to support Warburg Pincus.
LabCo France Marken UK Sector: Sector: Labco is a leading medical diagnostics Marken is a fast growing specialist logistics Healthcare Shipping & group with a unique pan European network of and support services company.
The company transportation Year: 2008 local and regional clinical laboratories.
Labco serves the pharmaceutical industry.
eu operates in a growing private medical diagnostics mezzanine and minority equity finance to support www.
com market with a total size in Europe of approximately the management led buyout from 3i in 2007.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the management team and 3i.
Le Moniteur France Materis France Sector: Sector: Le Moniteur is a leading magazine Materis is the speciality building materials Printing & Building materials group, which publishes two flagship titles: business formerly owned by Lafarge.
It is publishing Year: 2003, 2006 Le Moniteur des Travaux Publics and divided into four divisions: aluminates, mortars, Year: 2004, 2006 www.
In 2006, ICG provided mezzanine paints, and admixtures.
fr finance and equity to support the leveraged buyout finance to support the buyout led by LBO France led by Bridgepoint Capital and the management in 2003, and the acquisition by Wendel team.
Loewenplay Germany Mayborn UK Sector: Sector: Loewenplay is the second largest gaming Mayborn has a range of international brands Leisure & Consumer arcade operator in Germany.
The company in the baby feeding and hygiene markets, entertainment product operates around 240 amusement arcades that including Tommee Tippee and Sangenic.
Year: 2008 Year: 2006 provide gaming, sports and amusement machines.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the www.
mayborn The company was acquired by funds advised by public to private buyout of Mayborn by 3i in 2006. loewenplay.
com AXA Private Equity with ICG providing the mezzanine facility.
Loyalty Partner Germany Mdi-Partenaires France Sector: Sector: Loyalty Partner specialises in customer Mdi-Partenaires is a leading company in Consumer Healthcare management and operates Germanys most the French acute care private hospital sector.
product Year: 2005, 2007 successful multi-partner loyalty programme.
The Group currently manages hospitals across Year: 2006 www.
mediICG provided mezzanine finance in a leveraged France, focusing on short stay acute care.
com buyout to support Palamon Capital Partners.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the loyaltypartner.
fide management led buyout from Barclays, Cobalt and Sagard in 2005, followed by a secondary buyout by management and LBO France in 2007.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 40 Portfolio overview continued Europe continued Medica France N&W Global Vending Italy Sector: Sector: Medica is a leading company in the nursing N&W Global Vending is a vending machine Healthcare Manufacturing homes and elderly care market in France.
manufacturer, which operates in more than Year: 2003, 2006 Year: 2005, 2008 It runs a network of nursing homes in France and 80 countries worldwide through a network www.
nwglobal Italy, follow on care clinics and a psychiatric clinic.
com ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the finance to support Bank of America and Merrill management buyout led by Bridgepoint Capital in Lynch in a secondary buyout in 2005, and the 2003 and BC Partners in 2006. tertiary buyout led by InvestCorp and Barclays Capital in 2008.
Menissez France Nocibe France Sector: Sector: Menissez is a leading manufacturer of Nocibe is a leading distributor of prestige Food Retail specialist part baked breads, which is one cosmetic and perfume brands in France.
manufacturing Year: 2002, 2006 of the fastest growing product categories ICG arranged mezzanine finance and equity to Year: 2006 www.
It operates in an industry with high support the management buyout led by www.
In 2006, ICG provided mezzanine Bridgepoint Capital.
In 2006, ICG invested in and equity investment to support managements mezzanine finance and equity to support the acquisition of the company.
Meyn The Netherlands Orizonia Spain Sector: Sector: Meyn is the second largest manufacturer of Orizonia is a tour operator in Spain.
Food Leisure & poultry processing equipment in the world.
It benefits from preferential contracts with key manufacturing entertainment ICG provided a mezzanine loan for the suppliers in the airline and travel industry.
equipment Year: 2006 management buyout to support Talon ICG invested across the capital structure to Year: 1999, 2005 www.
The Company was sold to Altor in 2005 support Carlyle and Vista Capital in the acquisition www.
com and ICG provided a mezzanine loan for this of Orizonia from the Fluxa family.
ICG also has leveraged buyout.
In 2005 Meyn acquired a minority equity stake in the company.
Systemate and ICG provided equity to support this acquisition.
Minimax Germany PagesJaunes France Sector: Sector: Minimax is the third largest global supplier of PagesJaunes Groupe is a leading Electronics Publishing & fire protection systems and services, focused provider of directories for the general printing Year: 2006 on solutions for industrial and special public and business users.
The business serves the international fire In 2007 ICG invested in the senior debt of the www.
protection market, and also supplies portable fire company.
fr extinguishers and services to the German market.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity for the leveraged buyout to support Industri Kapital.
Motip Dupli The Netherlands Parkeon France Sector: Sector: Motip is a leading European manufacturer of Parkeon provides parking and transport Chemicals Manufacturing paints and putty.
In 2003 ICG provided management solutions.
Parkeon is located in 40 & plastic Year: 2007 mezzanine finance to support the company's countries and its innovative systems and products Year: 2003, 2006, www.
In 2006, the company was acquired ease congested streets and facilitate mobility in 2008 by management and ICG.
In 2008, ICG supported more than 3000 cities.
com management in a refinancing of the company.
finance and equity in support of Barclays Private Equity.
Overview Strategic overview Performance review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 41 Pasteur Cerba France SAG Germany Sector: Health Sector: Pasteur Cerba is a specialty laboratory, SAG is a leading independent service and Business Year: 2006 with a leading position in the French market technical solutions provider for utilities in Services for esoteric clinical laboratory tests.
In 2008, ICG provided mezzanine finance Year: 2008 pasteur-cerba.
com complex tests are performed for smaller and equity to support the secondary buyout.
fide independent clinical labs, hospitals and physicians.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity for the management buyout to support Industri Kapital.
Picard France Sebia France Sector: Sector: Picard is a leading distributor of gourmet Sebia is a manufacturer of medical diagnosis Food retailing Healthcare frozen foods operating in France.
The company sells innovative Year: 2001, 2004 Year: 2001, 2006 company specialises in the selection, process, laboratory instruments and reagents.
com storage, distribution and retail sales of high quality dominant market position in France, Italy and frozen food.
In 2001 ICG provided mezzanine Germany: with strong growth potential in the US finance to support the buyout led by Candover, and Japan.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and and in 2004 the mezzanine and equity to support equity to support the management buyout by BC Partners.
The mezzanine facility was repaid in Astorg in 2001, in addition to the secondary June 2006. buyout led by Montagu in 2006.
Q-Matic Sweden Select Service Partner UK Sector: Sector: Q-Matic is the global market leader in Select Service Partner offers food services Business Hotels queue management systems.
The company for the travel sector worldwide.
It operates services & catering manufacture a wide range of hardware and food and beverage facilities in railway stations, Year: 2007 Year: 2006 software products related to management of airports, motor service areas, roadside locations, www.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and shopping centres, and on trains.
ICG provided equity to support the management buyout led mezzanine finance and equity for the leveraged by Altor.
Raet The Netherlands Sicurglobal Italy Sector: Sector: Raet is the leading HR and payroll IT Sicurglobal is the leading Italian provider of Business Business services company in the Netherlands.
The company services services It also offers a range of related consultancy protects the tangible and intangible assets Year: 2003 Year: 2008 services.
In 2003, ICG provided mezzanine of businesses and private individuals, and www.
it finance for the management buyout to support safeguards corporate business integrity.
In 2007, ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity a refinancing took place in which ICG to support the secondary buyout led by Stirling rolled over its mezzanine loan.
Retif France Sogetrel France Sector: Sector: Retif is a leading cash and carry supplies Sogetrel specialises in communication Retail Telephone and equipment specialist in Europe.
networks for cable, mobile, fixed and networks Year: 2001, 2007 The company's UK subsidiary is Morplan.
ICG proprietary operators throughout France.
eu provided mezzanine finance and equity to support Sogetrel has a well diversified portfolio of activities www.
com the management buyout led by Barclays Private Equity and holds a strong competitive position.
ICG and ABN Amro in 2001, and mezzanine finance to provided mezzanine finance and equity to support support the management buyout led by Pragma the acquisition by Barclays Private Equity.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 42 Portfolio overview continued Europe continued Souriau France Tractel France Sector: Sector: Souriau is a world leader in the Tractel is the world leader in lifting and Electronics Manufacturing design, manufacture and marketing of access related products.
This includes lifting, Year: 2003, 2006 Year: 2007 interconnection solutions to the industrial, material handling, measurement of tension and www.
com military and aerospace markets.
In 2003, ICG loads, suspended working platforms, building provided a mezzanine bond and equity to support maintenance installations and fall arrest safety the management buyout led by Axa Private Equity.
ICG provided mezzanine bonds and In 2006, ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support the management buyout led by equity to support the secondary management LBO France.
buyout led by Sagard Private Equity.
Springer Germany V Ships UK Sector: Sector: Springer is a publishing group formed from V Ships is the worlds largest ship manager.
Publishing Shipping & the merger of Kluwer Academic Publishing The company provides technical and crewing & printing transportation and Springer Science and Business Media.
services to more than 1,000 ships from the largest Year: 2003 Year: 2007 The company publishes academic journals oil tankers and containerships to specialty www.
com and books, professional publications and B2B exploration vessels.
ICG provided equity to support publications.
In 2003, ICG provided mezzanine the Exponent led buyout.
finance for the management buyout to support Cinven and Candover.
Swets The Netherlands Van Gansewinkel formerly AVR The Netherlands Sector: Sector: Swets is a leading global subscription Van Gansewinkel is the leading waste Business Waste services company.
The company acts as an management and environmental company Services Management intermediary between publishers and institutional in The Netherlands.
ICG provided a senior Year: 2007 Year: 2006, 2007 subscribers, by providing products and services to shareholder loan and equity for the leveraged www.
van simplify the management of print and electronic buyout to support CVC and KKR.
In October 2007, ICG supported of the financing of the add on acquisition of Gilde in the acquisition of the company with Van Gansewinkel in 2007, ICG invested in mezzanine finance and equity.
additional equity while the senior shareholder loan was repaid.
TDF France Veinsur Spain Sector: Sector: TDF operates radio relay networks Veinsur is a truck distributor that also Telephone Shipping & and shared infrastructures.
The company provides maintenance, repair and after networks transportation provides services across the entire value chain sales services.
ICG provided mezzanine finance Year: 2007 Year: 2008 of audiovisual and telecommunications networks.
in the buyout supporting Ibersuizas and the www.
es ICG provided equity for the management buyout founding family that remained in the equity to support TPG and Axa Private Equity.
ICG also and management of the business.
recently invested in the senior debt.
Teamsystem Italy Via Location France Sector: Sector: Teamsystem provides software solutions Via Location is France's second largest Business Shipping & for payroll, tax, accounting, customer and independent truck rental company.
services transportation human resources management.
ICG invested In 2004, ICG provided a mezzanine bond and Year: 2004 Year: 2004, 2007 in a mezzanine loan and equity to support the equity to support the management buyout by www.
fr secondary buyout led by Bain Capital.
In 2006 ICG Edmond fide Rothschild Capital Partners.
com supported Bain Capital in the add on acquisition of ICG provided mezzanine bonds and equity to Lince, a leading business information company.
support the management buyout led by Weinberg Capital Partners.
Overview Strategic overview Performance review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 43 In addition, ICG has a small residual interest in the Viadom France following companies: Sector: Viadom is the leading French provider Ambea Carema Consumer of household, gardening, beauty and wellproduct being services in the home environment.
Accantia Year: 2006 ICG provided mezzanine and equity finance to Asco www.
viadomsupport the management buyout led by Edmond services.
com Care Management Group fide Rothschild Capital Partners.
Dynea Edscha IPT Group Visma Norway Geoxia Sector: Visma is a leading supplier in Northern Ideal Stelrad Business Europe of accounting and administration services Lecta software and services.
ICG provided mezzanine Year: 2006 Sia and equity finance to support the public to private www.
com transaction led by Hg Capital.
Svenson Terreal Vivarte France Sector: Vivarte is a leading French apparel Retail and footwear retail specialist.
The company Year: 2007 has a well established and diversified portfolio www.
fr of stores and brands in Europe.
ICG provided equity to support the management buyout led by Charterhouse.
Welzorg The Netherlands Sector: Welzorg is the leading distributor of mobility Healthcare aids for the disabled and elderly in the Year: 2002, 2008 Netherlands.
The core business is the rental www.
nl and sales of wheelchairs and scooters through a national network.
ICG provided mezzanine finance to support the management buyout led by Industri Kapital in 2002.
In 2008 ICG provided mezzanine finance as part of a refinancing of the company.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 44 Case study: Franklin ICG is truly a business partner, more Franklin is a leading integrated provider of quality mooring than just a capital provider.
ICG provides and rigging equipment and services to the offshore oil and gas industry.
It operates in the rapidly growing offshore oilfield strategic and financial advice through services sector in South East Asia, with increasing focus on its board participation and support high value deepwater exploration and development activity.
Headquartered in Singapore, Franklin is the largest company in the industry in the South East Asia region and also has a presence Angie Tang Chief Executive officer, Franklin in Australia, Indonesia, South Korea, US, Europe and West Africa.
In 2007, ICG provided mezzanine and equity to support 3i in the acquisition of Franklin.
Portfolio overview continued Asia Pacific Link Market Services Australia Tegel Foods Ltd New Zealand Sector: Sector: Link is the second largest provider of Tegel is the leading branded and fully Financial Food shareholder registry services in Australia, New integrated poultry producer in New Zealand.
services manufacturing Zealand, India and South Africa.
In 2006, Link The company offers a broad range of poultry Year: 2007 Year: 2006 combined with Australian Administration Services, products from fresh and frozen whole birds and www.
co. nz one of the largest providers of superannuation portions to value added main meal items.
au funds administration in Australia.
ICG provided ICG provided senior and junior mezzanine loans in mezzanine finance and equity to support the addition to equity to support Pacific Equity leveraged recapitalisation and acquisition finance Partners acquistion from Heinz.
in a transaction led by Pacific Equity Partners.
Hoyts Australia Franklin Offshore Holding Singapore Sector: Sector: Hoyts is one of the worlds leading Franklin is the leading provider of rigging, Leisure & Oil & gas entertainment corporations.
The company owns lifting and mooring services to the offshore entertainment services and operates 45 cinemas with over 400 screens and marine industries in South East Asia.
Year: 2007 Year: 2007 and approximately 75,000 seats in Australia and The company is increasingly involved in www.
In both of these countries it is the high value deepwater drilling and mooring hoyts.
sg largest independent film distributor and provider operations, and has developed a strong, of cinema advertising.
ICG provided mezzanine blue chip customer base.
ICG provided and equity to support the leveraged buyout led by mezzanine and equity finance to support 3i.
Veda Advantage Australia Taiwan Broadband Communications Taiwan Sector: Sector: Veda Advantage is Australia and New TBC is the leading cable TV broadcaster in Financial Cable operator Zealands leading credit bureau and provides Taiwan.
Established in 1999, TBC serves over services Year: 2007 credit checks and references on individuals 700,000 cable TV households across Taiwan with Year: 2008 www.
In September 2008 ICG a range of video, broadband and communications www.
tw facilitated the restructuring of Vedas balance sheet products.
TBC was acquired by funds advised by advantage.
com by providing mezzanine finance to refinance senior Macquarie Bank in 2006.
The following year, ICG debt and to provide additional working capital.
provided mezzanine and equity to support a dividend recapitalisation of the company.
Yellow Pages Group New Zealand Sector: The Yellow Pages Group YPG is the Publishing provider of Yellow Pages, White Pages and & printing Local Directories services in New Zealand.
Year: 2007 YPGs portfolio also includes online directory www.
yellowpages assistance and specialty directories.
co. nz ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support the acquisition by CCMP Capital Asia and Ontario Teacherss Pension Plan from Telecom New Zealand.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 45 Case study: Behavioral Interventions We chose to partner with ICG because Behavioral Interventions Incorporated BI is the leading the firm had a very strong understanding US provider to government agencies in criminal justice of state of the art monitoring technology, treatment programmes, of Behavioral Interventions and was able to day reporting and re entry services for offenders released creatively design a financing structure that to community supervision.
For over 23 years, BI has worked with more than 2,700 government met our capital needs.
agencies in the US by providing responsible alternatives to incarceration AEA Investors through intensive community supervision services and technologies.
ICG supported the management team and AEA Investors in a tertiary buyout in 2008.
Since this investment the business has continued to focus on enhancing its unique market position in monitoring technology and community based supervision and treatment programmes.
North America American Stock Transfer & Trust Company US Helicon Cable US Sector: Sector: AST is the largest independent share registry Helicon Cable is a cable operator that Financial Cable operator and corporate administration service provider operates in predominately rural areas.
services Year: 2007 in the United States by issuer number.
The company offers basic cable, digital cable, Year: 2008 www.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to high speed data and VOIP telephony services.
com support the buyout by Pacific Equity Partners.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to amstock.
com support an add on acquisition.
Au Bon Pain US Hudson Products US Sector: Sector: Au Bon Pain is a fast casual restaurant chain Hudson Products is a global leader in the Restaurants Manufacturing founded in 1978.
The company is based on a design and manufacture of air cooled heat Year: 2008 Year: 2008 marketplace concept and targets high traffic exchangers and axial flow fans.
hudson locations such as urban locations, hospitals, serves the oil, gas and petrochemical processing aubonpain.
com universities, high-end shopping malls, and industries.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and transportation centres.
ICG provided mezzanine equity to support Riverstone LLC and finance and equity to support LNK Partners and management in their buyout of the business.
management in their buyout of the business.
Behavioral Interventions US Intelsat US Sector: Sector: Behavioral Interventions is the leading US Intelsat is the leading provider of fixed Government Telephone provider to government agencies in criminal satellite services worldwide.
The company has services networks justice of related technology and services.
one of the largest, most flexible and most reliable Year: 2008 Year: 2008 ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to satellite fleets in the world, covering over 99 per www.
com support AEA Investors and management in their cent of the worlds population.
ICG invested in tertiary buyout of the business.
CoActive US Press Ganey Associates US Sector: Sector: CoActive is a leading global manufacturer of Press Ganey Associates is the largest US Healthcare Electronics industrial switches.
These are typically used in provider of healthcare quality improvement services Year: 2007 the automotive, medical and mobilecom markets.
The company partners with 7,000 Year: 2008 www.
ICG provided a second lien facility and equity to healthcare organisations, including 40 per cent of coactive-tech.
support the buyout led by Littlejohn & Company.
all US hospitals, to measure and enhance the pressganey.
com quality of their care and their financial results.
ICG provided mezzanine finance and equity to support Vestar Capital Partners and management in their secondary buyout of the business.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 46 Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 47 Governance 48 Board of Directors 50 Directors report 54 Corporate Governance 58 Report of the Remuneration Committee 65 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 68 Independent Auditors report
