Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 08 This is an enormous funding gap and an outstanding opportunity for ICG to refinance market leading, quality companies.
Tom Attwood Managing Director Managing Directors review Strategic review Overview In last years annual report, we warned of a heavy storm in the buyout and credit markets.
Since then, credit markets have moved from bad 3 Early decisive actions to protect and preserve the portfolio to dreadful, very much worse than anyone could have anticipated.
However, importantly, we started in a defensive position, having taken 3 Dedicated team to maximise recoveries decisive steps early on to protect our business and preserve the 3 A national, mid market private equity market to reopen value of our portfolio.
Prior to the onset of the credit crunch in 2007, we stated that 3 Enormous funding gap and opportunity to renance there was too much money chasing a scarcity of high quality good businesses transactions.
As a consequence, we chose to participate in a smaller 3 Flexibility and expertise to invest across the capital structure number of investment opportunities in our core European mezzanine business, reducing our market share as we sought to preserve the 3 Strong local network of investment professionals credit quality of our portfolio.
We also favoured investments in 3 Competitive landscape moving in our favour defensive industries.
As a result, our portfolio has been relatively resilient, despite the severity and global scale of this financial and economic crisis.
A detailed review of our portfolio and action taken to preserve its value can be found in the Business Review.
In addition, the decline and subsequent turbulence of credit and equity markets has reduced exit activity from private equity portfolios to almost nothing.
As a result, there was a significant decrease in the early repayments we received on our mezzanine loans and, in turn, the investment capacity of our balance sheet.
A detailed review of our balance sheet and action taken to maintain its strength can be found in the Financial Review.
Looking forward, the competitive landscape has started to move sharply in our favour.
Our unique local network, long term track record and history of maximising recoveries on poorly performing assets is allowing us to raise new funds even in this difficult climate.
We remain confident that ICG will emerge from the credit crisis as a market leading investor and manager of buyout debt.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 09 Share of primary loan market Maturity profile of European LBO debt in bn Institutional investors Non European banks Securities firms European banks 75% 70 60 50 50% 40 30 25% 20 10 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: S & P Source: Fitch The Market arranged by the global private equity community rather than local mortgages, consumer credit and local business loans.
There is Europe therefore little or no liquidity for buyouts, particularly large multinational The dramatically discounted prices in the secondary market have buyouts which are now largely considered to be a thing of the past.
We expect to Nonetheless, there is estimated to be over 200bn of buyout generate very attractive returns by investing in the debt of debt to be repaid in the next seven or so years.
Most banks will fundamentally solid businesses which we know well, where their want their money back and many of these companies will not be in debt is trading at a significant discount to par value.
This represents the biggest risk facing the private We are also confident that local primary markets will eventually equity community.
Gearing for private equity portfolios as a whole reopen.
When they do, we expect conditions to resemble those is likely to be close to six times EBITDA in 2012 even after early of the mid 1990s: a market characterised by local mid market repayments: significantly above sustainable levels in the current transactions executed by local private equity sponsors and financed debt climate.
Thus, when much of the buyout debt comes due for by local banks at a reasonable level of gearing.
Our local network repayment, between 2012 and 2016, there will be limited appetite is ideally positioned to take advantage of this.
This is an enormous funding gap and an outstanding Although governments have seemingly stabilised the banking opportunity for ICG to refinance market leading, quality companies system, there is still limited liquidity.
Banks remain significantly that are cash generative and well managed.
overgeared and will require a very long period of deleveraging before any form of normality returns.
North America This is particularly true of Europe where, unlike North America, While North American banks are suffering similar woes to their bank debt dominates with virtually no institutional history of corporate European counterparts, the North American market benefits from credit investing.
This means that for many years banks were the a more established sub investment grade credit market with major provider of buyout debt.
However, in the seven or eight years long term minded institutional investors.
As such, we expect the before the credit bubble burst, the aggregate amount invested by North American buyout market to be the first to reopen.
We hope institutional investors in European buyout debt went from circa to consolidate our strong start in this region when market 5 per cent to 60 per cent.
Of this new wave of managers of CDOs opportunities arise.
and credit hedge funds, most have no track record, little or no cash, Asia Pacific nor prospect of raising any.
The CDO market model, in particular, In Asia Pacific, the debt market was primarily driven by banks that is broken.
We expect a significant number of these firms to leave lent for their own account rather than for the syndication market.
the market over the next few years, and indeed some have already As a result there were never the excesses seen in Europe and North done so.
In addition local banks have stronger balance sheets than Banks will have to step in to provide liquidity if the buyout market their European and North American peers.
As a result the buyout is to reopen.
This is unlikely to happen in the immediate future.
Banks market, while less dynamic than before the crisis, is not entirely closed.
that have been recipients of government bailouts are repatriating We have a very strong competitive position in the region.
Having funds, creating enormous difficulties for corporates in general and successfully closed our second Asia Pacific fund, we are well placed buyouts in particular.
The new bank shareholders have different to continue to grow our business in the region.
It is highly unlikely they will finance leveraged transactions Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Looking forward, the competitive landscape has started to move sharply in our favour.
01 Christophe Evain Managing Director 02 Franois fide Mitry Managing Director Our competitive advantage We rarely sell distressed assets and, over our lifetime, have Among private equity and credit fund managers, we believe that developed the internal capabilities to help drive the recovery of the winners in the long term will be those groups that have already businesses in difficulty and monetise the equity upside.
Of the 42 fully established a long term track record, sold more assets than they exited defaulted assets over our 20 year history, we have recovered bought in 2006 and 2007, invested in cash generative businesses 64 per cent of the principal, on average.
In addition we have received in defensive sectors, have investment capabilities to take advantage a further 58 per cent of the principal by way of interest income and of the opportunities that are emerging in these difficult times and equity upside, achieving 1.2 times our initial investment.
who have properly planned for succession.
There are few fund Having established a reputation as a leading fund manager of managers in either private equity or credit who qualify on all of these intermediate and senior capital, ICG is well positioned to grow this counts.
Some mediocre managers of private equity funds may franchise further.
Since 1998, when we launched our first third survive for some time as they continue to receive fees on their party vehicle, funds under management have grown to 8.5bn, fast existing funds.
However, we believe there is every prospect that a outpacing the growth of ICGs balance sheet investment portfolio, substantial number of credit fund managers will not exist in five years which stood at 2.9bn at 31 March 2009.
We expect to continue to time.
This gives us great confidence that ICG will benefit from the grow this business.
As a result, fee income is likely to contribute less competitive environment.
a higher proportion to our core income in the medium term, as a We have a unique network of credit professionals based in local greater proportion of the capital we manage is sourced from third markets throughout Europe.
We have a strong 20 year track record party funds.
of investment and recovery, and a disciplined investment process We believe that ICG will emerge from the credit crisis as one which allows us to raise third party funds even in difficult markets.
of the strongest mezzanine investors globally, and a market leading We have or have had investments in many hundreds of companies manager of European buyout debt.
internationally on which we have extensive information and analysis.
Indeed we are on the Boards of over 80 of these.
All of this gives us a real advantage over competitors who are for the most part English speaking teams based in London.
Underpinned by a single credit process, our Mezzanine and Tom Attwood Credit Fund Management CFM investment teams are well positioned Managing Director to identify and analyse opportunities to invest across a companys capital structure, and to adapt to market conditions.
This unique perspective provides ICG with the expertise and flexibility to make additional investments in companies where we believe further value can be realised, and to invest in opportunities that are generating significant returns in both the primary and secondary markets.
