Group at a glance Key messages Our customers want small loans repayable over relatively short-terms.
They value the personal service, convenience and flexibility of home credit.
Our large-scale agent network and infrastructure enables this personal service and differentiates us in the market place.
A resilient business model We operate a long-established and profitable business model.
It allows us to adapt to the changing business environment.
Despite the worst global economic crisis in 80 years, the business made a good profit and is well positioned for an improved performance.
Go to Our business model on page 28 Managing the business through the downturn Group profit Our business model has proved to be resilient and profitable.
before tax It has been well tested and, while 2009 has been a challenging year, the rapid recovery from the impact of the recession and our performance throughout the year demonstrates 61.7m the resilience of our business model, the effectiveness of our credit risk management systems and our ability to manage Costs reduced in costs.
We aim to be a well run, customer-centric business Central Europe by which is continually improving efficiency and effectiveness.
Go to Performance review on page 39 10% 06 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Home credit provides a convenient way for people from all walks of life to borrow money quickly, in a manageable and transparent way.
Our customers like our service and we consistently achieve high satisfaction ratings.
An attractive customer proposition We play a positive role in the communities we serve, providing small sum, unsecured loans delivered weekly by dedicated agents.
Our customers like our fast, friendly and trustworthy service together with flexible, manageable repayments.
Go to Home credit and the customer on page 30 Our customers Customer satisfaction Our business depends on earning and keeping the trust of our customers.
Customer treatment and responsible lending 72% are key issues and, as a large provider of home credit, we understand how important they are to business success.
We are voluntarily aligning our business to the UK Financial Services Customer retention Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly principles.
We have developed Customer Principles which emphasise the customer 73% focus of our business and help us to consider the impacts of our decisions on our customers.
In 2009, we launched a Customer Charter which enables us to communicate better to customers the levels of service they can expect and sets clear standards so we are better able to monitor performance.
Go to Responsible lending on page 31 www.
co. uk Directors report: Business review 07 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Group at a glance Key messages We have established leading, national businesses in our Central European markets and the businesses in our developing markets of Mexico and Romania are growing rapidly.
The economic outlook where we operate is generally more positive than in 2009, consumer lending remains relatively under-served and the economic downturn has resulted in reduced levels of competition.
Well positioned for growth We have a clear, consistent strategy for long-term, profitable growth.
We will continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our home credit business model and progressively enter new, emerging markets when the time is right.
Go to Strategy on page 14 Future opportunities Mexico maiden We strive to be a well managed, ethical business supported by full year profit policies, principles and good governance which is particularly important for operating in emerging markets.
We also have well-established processes to recruit, develop and retain talented 0.3m management who will drive the future success of our business.
We aim to optimise the profitability of our established Central Geographical coverage European businesses where demand for credit is high and to date in Mexico we have strong brand recognition.
We also plan to realise the long-term potential of our developing markets of Mexico and Romania.
In addition, we have identified a number of countries 22% for potential new home credit businesses and, if conditions are right, may initiate a new country pilot in 2011.
Go to Strategy on page 14 08 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Our lending is short-term and based on close personal relationships with our customers.
This means the business is flexible and responsive during changing economic conditions.
Strong financial fundamentals The home credit model is capital generative and profitable.
The Group balance sheet is well capitalised.
The ratio of equity to receivables has increased to 49%.
Go to Performance review on page 39 Strong financial fundamentals Equity to We have retained a strong financial position throughout 2009 receivables ratio despite the impact of the global recession.
The balance sheet remains well capitalised, with equity to receivables increasing to 49%, borrowings reducing by over 100 million and gearing 49% reducing to 1.3x.
There are sufficient committed bank facilities to fund the business plan through until October 2011 and Headroom on external our Central European businesses continue to be highly bank borrowing facilities cash and capital generative this provides a key component of the funding required to support our business plan.
Go to Performance review on page 39 265.7m www.
