Chief Executive Officers review Market overview We operate in the consumer credit sector of the financial Forecast GDP growth 2010 % services industry.
Products in this sector include credit cards, 4.0 unsecured personal loans, retail credit, overdrafts, home 3.0 2.6 credit, home shopping catalogues and pawnbroker lending.
1.4 1.3 We focus on home credit in emerging markets where demand for credit is growing and markets are relatively under-served.
0.1 Poland Czech Slovakia Hungary Mexico Romania Republic Strong competitive position Source: Citibank With a strong brand and local market insight and infrastructure, we are well placed to strengthen our market position.
We believe: the economic outlook for the markets in which we operate is positive: the consumer lending market in these countries remains relatively under-served: and we have a well-established brand in each market.
Economic outlook Trading conditions in the first quarter of 2009 were exceptionally challenging but progressively improved.
By Quarter 3, the global economy appeared to be at a turning point with most of the G20 economies expected to return to positive growth.
Although there is still a relatively high level of economic uncertainty and unemployment statistics are expected to deteriorate for part of 2010, stronger demand and consumer confidence indices have led to a more optimistic near-term outlook.
This mirrors our experience in the markets we serve.
GDP forecasts indicate a return to economic growth for most of our markets in 2010.
The economies in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania are expected to grow between 1.3% and 3.0% and Mexico is forecast to grow by 4.0%.
GDP in Hungary is forecast to contract slightly by 0.1% in 2010.
In addition, the general trend in consumer confidence has been more positive since April with the exception of Romania.
This market appears to have entered the recession later than the other markets and we remain cautious at this stage regarding its economic outlook.
Emerging markets with reduced competition A common feature of the emerging markets in which we operate is the rapid growth in the size of the market for consumer credit.
At the same time, these consumer credit markets remain significantly smaller in relation to GDP than those of the developed Western economies of the UK and the USA.
Additionally, since the onset of the global economic downturn, the level of competition has reduced.
Many mainstream lenders have limited their supply of credit to customers in all our markets and a number of direct and indirect competitors withdrew from the market during 2009.
This may, in time, result in increased market potential for our business.
16 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Brand reputation and awareness Over the past 12 years, our business has grown organically and now serves With a strong brand and over two million customers.
We have brand awareness levels comparable to the local market insight and market leader in the financial services sector in most of our markets and have infrastructure, we are built a track record for delivering high-quality service resulting in consistently well placed to strengthen high customer satisfaction ratings.
We have effectively created a new product category through the Provident brand in all our markets and are now synonymous with the short-term, small sum, home-collected loan segment.
Regulation and legislation We work with policy makers and legislators in all our markets to ensure the full impacts of any proposed legislation and any wider consequences on the financial market are understood.
During 2010, the new EU Consumer Credit Directive CCD will be implemented across member states.
The most significant features will be a harmonisation of the definition of the Annual Percentage Rate APR to be quoted in any consumer credit agreement.
In addition, the CCD will specify the method of calculation of the rebate accruing to a customer in the event of early settlement.
There continues to be a debate about the possible introduction of rate caps in the Czech Republic and Mexico and there are also proposed changes to the existing cap in Slovakia.
Whilst specific regulation of charges or interest rates do not exist in Hungary, amendments to the Hungarian Banking Act have been approved with effect from 1 June 2010, whereby a financial institution is permitted only to grant to an individual customer in any calendar year one consumer loan, of which the APR exceeds 65%.
We expect that these likely and potential changes will require some changes in the operational systems and product structures in certain markets and we are well prepared.
In Poland, the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection has conducted a review of practices in respect of customer early settlement rebates and has challenged the practices of a number of lenders, including ourselves.
We believe that the new early settlement regime to be introduced in accordance with the CCD will address their concerns and we have explained and confirmed the legality of our current practices.
