Chief Executive Officers review Our business model We have a long-established, cash generative business model which is highly valued by our customers.
It has proven to be Where the agent service is provided, the customer is resilient, flexible and profitable.
generally not charged any We provide small sum, short-term unsecured cash loans, typically 200 to 500 default interest or fees as depending on the market repayable over 6 or 12 month terms.
On average, we a result of late payments.
lent 348 to each of our customers during 2009.
They can therefore take comfort in the fact that We focus our business on emerging markets where demand for credit is growing the amount they owe does and markets are relatively under-served.
We have a strong position in each of not increase as a result of our markets.
missed payments and they The model is different to other financial products because of the high level of have the flexibility to miss personal service provided by dedicated agents.
Credit vetting of customers, rapid the occasional payment delivery of the cash loan and the collection of weekly repayments are performed without penalty.
by an agent in the convenience of the customers home, supported by robust credit management systems.
The agent is responsible for servicing the customers needs throughout their relationship with us.
New customers are offered smaller loans repayable over shorter-terms than established customers.
This enables repayment behaviour to be monitored closely.
Only when a customer has proven their willingness and ability to repay a small loan will larger loans over a longer-term be offered.
This low and grow strategy is designed to minimise initial credit risk levels and therefore supports responsible lending, and maximises the lifetime value of each customer.
This business model is applied consistently in all our markets, with some modification to accommodate local conditions.
Our home credit product essentially has two components: a small sum, unsecured cash loan and a home collection agent-based service.
The home collection agent-based service provides a number of benefits to customers: the receipt of the loan in cash, usually within 48 hours: the convenience of servicing the loan in the comfort of the customers home: direct and indirect costs of repaying a loan through the banking network are avoided: and most significantly, where the agent service is provided, the customer is generally not charged any default interest or fees as a result of late payments.
They can therefore take comfort in the fact that the amount they owe does not increase as a result of missed payments and they have the flexibility to miss the occasional payment without penalty.
28 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Pricing Our charging structure is clear, transparent and open, to help customers stay Our charging structure in control of their finances.
is clear, transparent and open, to help customers Historically our home credit product has been structured to give a single, fixed to stay in control of charge for the loan including all interest, fees and service costs.
a new structure, known as the flexible product, has been introduced in some of our markets.
The flexible product structure gives customers greater visibility of the cost of their loan interest charges, administrative and preparatory fees, insurance costs if applicable and home service costs are all clearly set out.
The flexible product also gives customers the option to take a loan without the home collection service and, instead, repay the loan by money transfer to a bank account.
The vast majority of customers who have been offered the flexible product have chosen to take the agent collection service.
We are in the process of adopting the flexible product in all our markets.
We believe that using the annual percentage rate APR to compare the cost of home credit with other forms of credit can be misleading and is not particularly helpful.
For small, short-term loans of the type favoured by our customers, the formula for calculating APRs can considerably distort the apparent costs of credit, particularly where short weekly payment periods are involved, and this can result in a relatively high APR.
Firstly, because fixed costs of loan administration are essentially the same for a small say 100 loan as for a large say 5,000 loan, those costs are much more significant in price terms for a small sum loan.
Secondly, the APR measure is disproportionately sensitive to changes in the length of the loan term when that term is comparatively short i. e. measured in weeks or months rather than years.
Consequently, many credit providers will not provide small sums of credit and only quote APRs on loans of 1,000 or more.
We consider that the introduction of the Consumer Credit Directive CCD across EU member states in 2010, which should standardise the calculation of APR across markets, will help to improve the comparability of financial products.
We believe that home credit offers good value compared with other credit products when the home service provided by the agent and the speed at which a loan is typically delivered are taken into account.
