Chief Executive Officers review How we do business We are a responsible business that is well governed, ethical and supported by well defined policies, principles and systems.
We have well-established and effective risk Home credit provides a convenient way for people from all walks of life to borrow management systems relatively small sums of cash in local currency, quickly, in a manageable and combined with high transparent way, usually for a period of about one year.
Product differentiation We have succeeded in establishing leading market positions in the small sum, fast-cash loan segment in all of our established Central European markets and have created the home credit category in all markets we have entered.
There are five key points of product differentiation: Personal Cash delivered to and collected weekly in the customers home by a dedicated agent.
Rapid service Credit vetting and delivery of the cash loan usually within 48 hours of first contact.
Flexible Close agent-customer relationship means we are responsive to changing customer circumstances.
Inclusive Products accommodate those on slightly below average incomes who want smaller loans and manageable repayments.
Accessible Personal service provides unique levels of access to under-served consumers.
Standards of governance We have well-established and effective risk management systems covering operational, credit, financial and regulatory risks, combined with high standards of corporate governance.
The business adheres to a Group-wide code of ethics and whistle-blowing policy.
We have extensive responsible lending and people management policies in addition to community, environment and responsible supply chain policies.
Consistent operations We believe it is important to support longer-term, value-adding activities to help the business grow.
At the heart of our Excellence in Execution programme is the Home Credit Blueprint, which identifies the key processes in operations and functional areas to ensure that core business principles are implemented and maintained in all markets.
Consistency across all markets provides a stable platform to develop the business, achieve continuous improvement targets and effectively manage key business risks.
We continue to embed treating customers fairly principles throughout the business because it is important to have good checks in place at all stages of the customer life cycle.
It also helps ensure we continue to provide customers with products which meet their needs, keep customers informed, and provide clear information and good levels of service.
26 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review The best people to help us grow Our success depends on recruiting and retaining high-calibre people at all We believe that our levels.
We believe that our people should have opportunities for learning and people should have development that support business goals and meet their needs.
Our aim is opportunities for learning to provide an environment in which people can improve their performance and development that and prepare for future responsibilities with us.
support business goals and meet their needs.
We ensure a high level of training and development through six-monthly performance and development reviews for each employee, development programmes, sponsorships, study leave and job shadowing.
We have a structured talent management and development programme together with established processes for leadership development and succession management.
We have also launched a new mentoring scheme.
Reward and benefits We offer attractive remuneration and benefits packages to both part-time and full-time employees.
These vary by market but generally include bonus, healthcare, private medical insurance, travel and subsistence allowances, and childcare vouchers.
We pay well in excess of the minimum wage in all our operating locations.
Reward is linked to an assessment of competencies that are aligned to the visions, values and customer focus of the business as well as achievement of objectives.
This means employees are rewarded not only for what they achieve but how they achieve it, ensuring that we conduct our business in a responsible, respectful and straightforward way.
Engagement Committed and engaged employees are more likely to be motivated to perform to the best of their ability.
Our internal communication presents opportunities to improve our employees understanding of what we expect of them, raise awareness of initiatives and encourage them to become more involved in Group activities.
We run formal independently managed engagement surveys allowing us to canvass the views of our employees and then take appropriate action.
We did not run a survey in 2009 but made significant progress with setting priorities and implementing action plans from the 2008 survey.
Health and personal safety We give high priority to the health and personal safety of our people and those whom our business affects.
Formal guidance is provided to employees and agents, and we run regular communication campaigns.
In 2009, a new agent safety initiative was introduced to ensure high standards in safety.
We have commissioned an external party to look at trends, carry out an independent risk assessment and review our approach to managing and responding to personal safety issues.
