Chief Executive Officers review Home credit and the customer Home credit provides a convenient way for people to borrow money quickly in a manageable and transparent way.
Typically, a customer is looking to borrow Our customers use home credit loans to help manage their weekly household a small sum of money budget, replace or upgrade domestic appliances, meet school or medical to meet an immediate, expenses and make special purchases such as Christmas presents and holidays.
specific purpose and does Customers are generally between 35 and 65 years old and are employed not want to borrow more or self-employed with a regular, secure but slightly below average income.
Our credit policies prohibit lending to customers whose only source of income is unemployment benefit.
Customers base their borrowing decisions primarily on the size of loan they require and how much they can afford to repay on a weekly basis.
Typically, a customer is looking to borrow a small sum of money to meet an immediate, specific purpose and does not want to borrow more than they need.
With busy home and work lives, customers like the fact that we can usually provide a cash loan within 48 hours from initial contact.
This can be much quicker than mainstream lenders.
Customers value the convenience of being able to arrange loans and make repayments in their own home, at a time that suits them.
For those customers who choose our home service option, the agent calls at the same time every week which saves them having to travel to a bank to make payments.
Constructive credit Our business model allows us to be financially inclusive.
Research shows many of our customers manage on modest incomes and have no bank account.
Our business model is also ideal to serve customers in rural areas where transport is poor and expensive.
Many consumers do not have access to financial services because they have limited or no credit history.
We believe people should not be excluded from credit for this reason.
With home credit, were helping to include our customers in the financial mainstream.
They may be taking a loan from a financial organisation for the first time.
Those who have had access to credit previously may have used store credit to purchase household items or borrowed money from friends and family.
With our model we are able to serve customers of modest means in a way that provides them with access to credit in a responsible way.
Whilst most customers use loans to manage their weekly budget, we know some of our customers are self-employed, particularly in Mexico, and are using our credit constructively to help run a small business or support their familys education.
30 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7
