Chief Executive Officers review Strategy We have a clear, consistent strategy and established record of performance.
We have successfully introduced home We intend to continue to improve the efficiency credit in six countries and developed a good track record and effectiveness of of building profitable businesses.
our home credit business Our strategy is simple.
We intend to continue to improve the efficiency and model and progressively effectiveness of our home credit business model and progressively enter and enter and develop new, develop new, emerging markets when the time is right.
We believe this will emerging markets when ensure continued profit growth and generate substantial shareholder value.
There are three strands to our strategy: Optimise the profitability of established markets We are working to optimise the profitability of our well-established businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary.
We have taken these businesses through the research, pilot and roll-out stages, and into the profit maximisation stage.
There are substantial growth opportunities for these businesses.
They have strong brand recognition, demand is high and the global economic downturn has resulted in reduced levels of competition.
We are also supporting our growth aims with improved cost efficiency initiatives.
Bring the developing markets to profit and realise their full potential Our aim is to bring our developing markets into profit as quickly as possible and, thereafter, deliver their long-term potential.
Good progress was made in the year.
Mexico reported its maiden full year profit in 2009 and Romania remains on track to report a profit in 2010.
Substantial opportunities for growth exist in Mexico and Romania where we have only partial geographic coverage to date.
Growth will come from further branch openings, increased market penetration and from the maturing of the customer base, with repeat customers taking larger loans and generating higher revenue than new customers.
We plan to open a third region in Monterrey, Mexico during 2010.
Enter new emerging markets A key part of our strategy is to enter new, emerging markets that offer the prospect of sustainable future growth because demand for credit is growing strongly and or the market is relatively under-served.
We are monitoring economic conditions and will carry out a pilot in a new market when the time is right.
This is unlikely to be before 2011.
14 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 AR8321 | IPF Annual Report 2009 | 02.03.2010 | Proof 7 Directors report: Business review Our strategy The execution of our Established markets Developing markets New markets strategy is supported Optimise the profitability Bring the developing Enter new emerging by a strong senior of the well-established businesses in Mexico markets that offer management team businesses in Central and Romania into good growth and Excellence in Europe Poland, profit and, thereafter, prospects when Execution programme.
the Czech Republic, deliver their long-term the time is right Slovakia and Hungary potential Possible new pilot 2009 pre-tax profit Mexico maiden full activity in 2011 76.5 million year pre-tax profit 0.3 million Romania on track for profit in 2010 Measuring our performance Our performance and development is evaluated against a number of key performance indicators KPIs both financial and non-financial.
Delivery against our targets is measured on a weekly, monthly, quarterly and annual basis.
Executing our strategy Our people The execution of our strategy is supported by a strong senior management team.
The team has a combination of long experience of the home credit operating model and wider financial services expertise.
Our success also depends on recruiting and retaining high-calibre people at all levels of the organisation.
Talent management and succession planning are important to achieving our development and future success and we have an effective system for identifying and developing talent across the business.
Excellence in Execution Also key to the delivery of our strategy is our programme to improve efficiency, customer service and the consistent execution of the business model across a growing number of international markets.
We will also continue to invest in activities that add long-term value and growth opportunities to the business addressing social issues such as financial literacy and also seeking to develop a greater understanding of the business through public policy work and stakeholder engagement.
