International Public Partnerships Limited Summary International Public Partnerships invests in social infrastructure projects such as Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI projects.
The portfolio consists of 50 projects in the U. K. Australia, Canada, Germany, France, Belgium, Italy and Ireland.
Examples include schools, hospitals, courthouses, police stations, transport infrastructure and rolling stock.
International Public Partnerships is advised by Amber Fund Management Limited, a specialist infrastructure advisor and manager whose 48 staff are dedicated to advising, managing, investing in and developing infrastructure projects and investments.
The Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2006 with a market capitalisation of 300m.
In April 2008, the Company raised a further 84m via a C-share capital listing and in January 2010 the Company completed a further capital raising of 89m by way of a placement and open offer.
Overview Shareholders funds 324.8 million at 31 December 2009 Market Capitalisation 428m at 31 December 2009 Shares on Issue 374.7 million at 31 December 2009 Index Inclusion FTSE AllShare, FTSE 250 Objective The investment objective of the Company is to provide shareholders with long-term distributions at levels that are attractive and sustainable arising from public infrastructure investments.
The Directors also believe that continued capital growth can be achieved from further investment in public infrastructure assets.
The Directors believe that investments in public infrastructure are likely, to a material extent, to be uncorrelated in their investment performance when compared to certain other investment classes.
Investment Advisor Amber Fund Management Limited AFML is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amber Infrastructure Group Limited.
Amber Infrastructure has a global investment and advisory remit and AFML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Amber Fund Management Limited st 1 Floor, Two London Bridge, London, SE1 9RA Capital Structure The Company has a capital structure comprising of Ordinary Shares only, although the Companys articles of association include provision for the creation of an additional class of shares.
2 International Public Partnerships Limited Summary continued Registered Office Heritage Hall PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4HY Administrator & Heritage International Fund Managers Limited Company Secretary Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4HY Auditors Deloitte LLP P. O.
Box 137, Regency Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 3HW Legal Advisor Ozannes 1 Le Marchant Street St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4HP Corporate Brokers Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building, 10 Paternoster Square, London, EC4M 7LT Corporate Bankers Royal Bank of Scotland International 1 Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 4BQ ISA PEPs SIPPs Status The Companys shares are eligible for ISA PEPs and SIPPs transfers.
com 3 International Public Partnerships Limited Summary continued History International Public Partnerships Limited LSE: INPP, formerly Babcock & Brown Public Partnerships Limited, is a limited liability, Guernsey incorporated, authorised closed-ended investment company.
The Company offers shareholders an exposure to investments in international infrastructure assets, particularly those with a public or social character, including those developed in conjunction with public bodies under Private Finance Initiative PFI or Public Private Partnership PPP type procurements.
The Company floated on the main market of the London Stock Exchange at an issue price of 100 pence per share on 9 November 2006 raising a total of 300 million and acquired a seed portfolio of 23 projects.
Since then the Company successfully completed a C share capital listing, raising a total of 84 million in April 2008.
Following this capital raising and as a result of the continued strength of the share price the Company was included in the FTSE 250 from 19 September 2008.
At 31 December 2009, the portfolio comprised economic interests in 50 projects, including thirty-six projects in the UK, seven in Australia, two in Canada and one in each of the following countries, Ireland, France, Belgium, Germany and Italy.
There is also diversification across several PFI PPP sectors, including roads and tunnels, railways, schools, courthouses, police and custodial facilities, government offices and health facilities.
The Company undertook a further capital raising in January 2010 and raised an additional 89 million which is currently available for future investment.
