BuSineSS Review BuSineSS ReSOuRceS Britvic is one of the two leading branded soft drinks A successful long-standing relationship with PepsiCo businesses in GB and Ireland.
It is one of the top two that resulted in the Exclusive Bottling Agreement EBA branded soft drinks businesses in the GB take-home being renewed in GB in 2003 for a further 15 years, with channel, is the leading branded soft drinks supplier to the an extension to 2023 on Admission to the London Stock GB licensed on-premise channel and is a significant player Exchange.
The EBA for Ireland lasts until 2015.
This with a growing presence in the leisure and catering channel.
relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands in GB and Ireland, access to all new The main resources the group uses to achieve its results are: carbonated drinks developed by PepsiCo for distribution in GB and Ireland and, to support the development of its An extensive and balanced portfolio of stills and carbonates carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos consumer and brands, including Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J O and Fruit 2 customer insight, competitor intelligence, marketing best Shoot.
The breadth and depth of Britvics portfolio enables it to practice, brand and product development expertise and target consumer demand across a wide range of consumption technological know-how.
Britvic has added to its stills occasions, in all the major soft drinks categories and across portfolio in 2008 with Gatorade and V Water, and in 2009 all relevant routes to market.
The strength of Britvics brand with Lipton Ice Tea portfolio is underpinned by its consumer insight and product development capability which has consistently enabled A strong customer base.
In take-home, Britvics customers it to produce innovative products, packaging formats and include the Big 4 supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsbury, promotional activity designed to meet evolving consumer tastes Asda and Wm Morrison together with a number of other and preferences.
Britvic Ireland owns a number of leading important grocery retailers.
The group has significant brands in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, including supply arrangements with a number of key players in the Club, Ballygowan water, Britvic, Cidona, MiWadi, and Energise GB pub sector and leisure and catering channels.
Through Sport, as well as the rights to the Pepsi and 7UP brands Britvic International, the group has built on the success of the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these products into markets outside GB Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible production capability and a recently outsourced distribution network that, according to AC Nielsen, enabled its soft drinks to be made available to consumers at over 96% of the points of sale on a sterling-weighted value basis in the GB take-home and over 90% of the points of sale of the GB licensed on-trade channels in 2009 Britvic plc Annual Report 2009 27
