Risk and governance Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The SARB is our lead regulator.
Signi cant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business home country regulatory authority.
Under the DLC structure, both Investec plc and Investec Limited maintain separate Compliance structures.
Each Compliance structure operates under terms of reference which are approved by its listed company board and Audit Committee.
Each Compliance structure is headed by a Group Compliance Of cer, who operates independently from operational management and is responsible for ensuring adequate management of compliance risk within their silo.
Each Group Compliance Of cer reports to the Chief Executive Of cer of their listed company as well as to the Global Head of Compliance, who is ultimately responsible for management of the Compliance function of both listed groups.
The Group Compliance Of cers have unrestricted access to the Chairman of their Audit Committee.
The Compliance divisions operate under matrix management reporting structures and are decentralised throughout the businesses.
Under these arrangements, Compliance Of cers are appointed to all signi cant business units and report to the business heads, but remain under the general supervision of Group Compliance.
Where appropriate, certain cross-enterprise compliance functions, such as Compliance Monitoring, are centralised and report directly to the Group Compliance Of cer.
Compliance risk is managed through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and other technical requirements relevant to the business.
The Compliance Of cers provide regular training to ensure that all employees are familiar with regulatory obligations.
They also provide advice on regulatory issues.
Compliance staff independently monitor the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures and other technical requirements.
Compliance staff work closely with business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
The groups Compliance Of cers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all our geographies.
UK and Europe - year in review The UK and European financial systems have experienced signi cant turmoil particularly over the last six months.
As a result of this we expect fundamental reforms to take place to the international regulatory and supervisory framework.
Signi cant work is already underway with the Financial Stability Board and the global standard setters including the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
In the UK a signi cant contribution to the debate was provided by the Chairman of the UKs FSA in the form of the Turner Review.
This report had a wide scope which included a review of the causes of the current crisis, and recommendations on the changes in regulation and supervisory approach needed to create a more robust banking system for the future.
The European Commissions High Level Group on European Financial Supervision published its report in December 2008.
During the period under review regulatory activity in the UK has focused on: Liquidity and stress testing Banking Conduct of Business Payment Services Treating Customers Fairly Various market conduct measures including civil and criminal prosecutions.
Liquidity and stress testing The FSA is conducting a comprehensive review and restructuring of its liquidity regime and is taking part in various liquidity work streams both in Europe and globally.
The FSA published a consultation paper in this regard in December 2008.
Whilst it remains the responsibility of rms senior management to adopt a sound approach to liquidity risk management, the FSA is proposing the following: A new, quantitative framework for liquidity risk management which places greater emphasis on rms ability to assess liquidity risks and develop policies to tackle them: A strengthened qualitative framework for liquidity risk management, with an increased focus on rms stress testing and contingency funding plans: new liquidity reporting requirements: and A new approach to rms operating in the UK which are part of a wider UK or international group.
The FSA believe that the proposed measures will enhance rms liquidity risk management practices signi cantly and will, in some cases, reshape their business models over the coming years.
Furthermore, the measures are intended to improve the FSAs ability to monitor and supervise rms liquidity risk exposures.
In relation to stress testing, the FSA are proposing to introduce a reverse-stress test requirement, which would apply to banks, building societies, investment rms and insurers, and would require rms to consider the scenarios most likely to cause their current business model to become unviable.
The FSA is also proposing to make some drafting changes to the existing requirements on Pillar 2 capital stress and scenario testing, or where rms use internal models to assess their Pillar 1 capital requirements.
The proposed changes are intended to better re ect the importance that the FSA attaches to robust stress and scenario testing and clarify the FSAs expectations of rms.
166 Annual report 2009 Risk and governance Compliance Banking Conduct of Business Payment Services The FSA has proposed a new framework to regulate the way that banks treat their customers.
Currently, the Banking Code Standards Board monitors and enforces the voluntary Banking Codes governing current accounts, personal loans and overdrafts, savings accounts, card services and ATMs.
This year the FSA will become responsible for regulating banks and building societies payment transactions under the Payment Services Directive.
The FSA is proposing an extension of their regulation to include all aspects of banks relationships with their retail customers and is looking to introduce the following framework: Full application of the FSAs Principles for Businesses to the regulated activities of accepting deposits and issuing electronic-money: New high-level rules applying to retail banking services outside PSD scope in a Banking Conduct of Business sourcebook : Transfer of existing COBS rules and guidance applying to deposit taking to BCOBS: and Monitoring and enforcement by the FSA, integrated into the wider risk-based approach to the supervision of the relevant rms and groups.
Treating Customers Fairly TCF TCF remains central to the FSAs retail strategy.
Firms were expected to meet the FSAs December 2008 deadline where they were required to prove that TCF management information demonstrated that they were consistently treating customers fairly.
The FSA has con rmed that as from January 2009, delivery of TCF will be tested as part of rms usual supervision and to achieve this, the FSA has said that it will accelerate the full integration of TCF into core supervisory work.
Market abuse measures The combating of market abuse continues to be a signi cant objective for the FSA.
Their agenda has included a move to pursue insider dealing cases in the criminal courts.
During 2008 we also saw various other initiatives from the FSA including: Short selling - On 18 September 2008 the FSA introduced temporary short selling measures in relation to stocks in UK financial sector companies on an emergency basis.
The measures were introduced because of concerns about the potential for market abuse resulting from short selling and the consequent destabilising effects in the extreme circumstances prevailing at the time.
The FSA effectively banned the active creation or increase of net short positions in the stocks of UK financial sector companies and required disclosure to the market of signi cant short positions in those stocks.
The FSA has now lifted the ban but have extended the disclosure obligation until 30 June 2009 and continue to keep the position under review.
The FSA has said that it will reintroduce the ban should this be warranted, and without consultation if necessary.
Unauthorised trading controls - In response to the Socit Gnrale rogue trader incident the FSA published its expectations for the systems and controls necessary to deter unauthorised trading, to detect it promptly if it is occurring and to take appropriate corrective action.
The measures expected by the FSA include mandatory 10 day holidays for all traders.
Rumours - The FSA has published guidelines with respect to the dissemination of false or misleading information and market rumours about companies.
The FSA expressed concern about the impact these forms of market abuse have on general market con dence, particularly in volatile or fragile market conditions.
South Africa - year in review Anti-money laundering AML The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities is ongoing.
In response to international best practice standards of anti-money laundering and anti-terror nancing and in particular to Guidance Note 3 issued by the Financial Intelligence Centre, which permits an accountable institution to adopt a risk based approach, we have developed and implemented a centralised AML system that has the capability to: Risk weight clients according to the money laundering and or terror nancing risks they may potentially pose.
Compare client lists to databases of adverse client information issued by regulatory authorities which includes persons named on the United Nations lists.
Administer in a central repository the ongoing maintenance of a clients identi cation and veri cation and risk weighting.
During the past year there has been an initiative to get all business units to implement the AML system, which in turn will provide for a centralised view of the Investec customer base.
These systematic developments are supported by an enhanced Group Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terror Financing Policy which incorporates a Client Acceptance Policy to accommodate this risk weighting and the screening of clients.
A further enhancement to the AML system to more adequately address the legislative requirements of suspicious activity reporting was implemented in the last quarter of 2008.
In terms of the transactional monitoring requirement, a project has been initiated in 2008 which is aimed at the implementation of an automated suspicious activity monitoring system ASAM, which takes cognisance of the clients risk weighting and screening and pro les the clients transactional behaviour across all business unit transactional systems.
The ASAM system provides for customer segmentation and enhances customer due diligence on high risk customers.
The project is due to be implemented in October 2009 but will have ongoing enhancements.
Annual report 2009 167 Risk and governance Compliance Consumer Law The focus on consumer protection continues into 2009 and the implementation and monitoring of compliance with the requirements of the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS and the National Credit Act NCA is ongoing.
Marking the introduction of broader and more comprehensive consumer rights is the Consumer Protection Act No.
68 of 2008 CPA, which was signed into law in April 2009.
The purpose of the CPA is to protect the interests of all consumers who are subject to abuse or exploitation in the market place and to give effect to internationally recognised best practice, while creating a strong culture of consumer rights and responsibilities.
The Act is expected to be fully implemented by October 2010.
Con icts of interest Potential con icts of interest have been identi ed through workshops with the respective business areas.
The potential con icts identi ed have been mapped on a Con icts Index Matrix, which includes an outline of general con ict types and the business areas between which the con icts could occur.
The mapping exercise additionally identi ed current mitigations and controls in place to manage the respective con icts, as well as where enhanced controls are necessary.
This mapping exercise has been substantially completed for all business areas classi ed as having a high risk of exposure to con icts of interest.
The mapping for business areas identi ed as having a medium or low risk of exposure to con icts of interest has been initiated, and is scheduled for completion by 31 March 2010.
All compliance policies that include mitigations and controls for con icts of interest have been updated and aligned with international best practice.
A Market Conduct module has been added to the compliance induction training.
The module focuses on practical identi cation and management of con icts of interest including the con icts inherent in gifts and entertainment, market abuse and personal account dealing.
Risk based monitoring The second phase of the project which involved the design and migration of a fully comprehensive risk based monitoring programme onto the Enterprise risk Assessor software was completed successfully during the year.
An annual reassessment programme is in progress for all the relevant acts loaded on the Enterprise Risk Assessor which involves re-evaluation of all the risks, controls, treatments and monitoring tests to ensure that these are still relevant.
Australia year in review The main areas of regulatory focus were: Anti-Money Laundering Counter Terrorism Financing Act 2006 AML CTF Act The AML CTF Act has been implemented in stages, and includes obligations such as customer identi cation and veri cation, recordkeeping, and the establishment and maintenance of an AML CTF programme.
Part A of the programme outlines the framework which we use to identify, mitigate and manage the risks which we may reasonably face should the provision of our products and services, whether inadvertently or otherwise, involve or facilitate money laundering or nancing of terrorism.
Part B, encompasses our ongoing customer due diligence procedures and takes into account the risk pro les and types of clients we deal with.
This year has seen the final stage roll out of the anti-money laundering counter terrorism nancing procedures with the last of these obligations coming into effect on 12 December 2008.
These obligations relate to reporting requirements and ongoing customer due diligence, which require reporting entities, such as Investec Australia and its subsidiaries, to monitor customers and their transactions on an ongoing basis.
Licensing During the period under review, we applied for a number of Australian Financial Services Licenses to cover the activities of the Investec Global Aircraft Fund part of our Capital Markets business and the Asset Management business in Australia.
