Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility Taking stock In a year of unprecedented distress within the global financial services industry, particularly the banks, the understanding of the word sustainability frequently narrowed to that of survival.
As markets catapulted from one crisis to the next, banks everywhere hunkered down and tried to navigate through the ever-changing environment.
As the global banking crisis unfolded, known banking brands collapsed, the international investment banking model was wiped out, government intervention became the norm, heightened industry regulation became a distinct probability, massive bailout packages were required to ensure the ongoing viability of the international banking system and there was substantive talk around the need for a complete overhaul of the world economys financial architecture.
Although the rapidly changing dynamics were mainly con ned to those banks operating in the first world, the banking industry everywhere felt the effect of a dramatic squeeze in liquidity and near-paralysis from anxieties pertaining to banking counterparty risk.
First-round effects of the global financial crisis gave rise to second-round effects of the global economic crisis where banks were once again exposed to credit defaults, bad debts and the impairments associated with a world economy in reverse.
As the period closed, banks everywhere were reeling from the blows of the previous 18 months and companies the world over were coming to terms with the toughest economic conditions in decades.
Amid expectations that global sub-par economic growth would persist into an extended period, the crisis began to surface an attempt by some to fide-bunk the merits of so-called corporate social responsibility.
Risks were high that the previous mainstreaming of broader sustainability considerations within business would be rolled back, on the proposition that all that was likely to count over the short-to-medium term was sheer survival, or sustainability in the financial sense alone.
However, the tenets that underpin broader sustainability may actually have been strengthened by the events of the recent past.
Since an excessive focus on the short-term may have been at the root cause of some developments that gave rise to the credit crisis in the first place, the case for the triple bottom line undoubtedly bene ted from ensuing interrogation of the long-held market view of shareholder value maximisation.
That is, the maximisation of shareholder value can no longer be seen as the sole guiding principle for corporate conduct.
At a time when the sustainability of the international banking system has been in question, banks can be forgiven for an unrelenting focus on their individual ability to survive.
Banks have had to right themselves at a time when public trust in business in general, and banks in particular, is very low.
Banks have had to face the glare of intense media and stakeholder scrutiny and the popular perception that, banks themselves were partly responsible for the crisis.
Stakeholders have since been vociferous in their condemnation of management, their criticism of prior banking practices and their contempt for the notion that too big to fail has had consequences for everyone except the banking industry itself.
Although the short-term immediacy of the credit crisis seems to be over, courtesy of the extensive stimulatory support measures in place by the global authorities, banks still have a number of much longer-term issues with which to contend.
Whether in terms of the need to ride out the vagaries of a still very tough economic cycle, to re-establish the essence of their business models, to restore pro tability levels, to ensure appropriate levels of capital adequacy or to re-build levels of public trust, reputational considerations within the industry are of uppermost importance.
As banks everywhere seek to take the necessary steps to restore the perceived integrity of the industry, and to realign broad stakeholder interests with those of shareholders, they will not have the luxury of doing so out of the line of public sight.
Investec remains mindful of its broad obligations to society and all stakeholders.
This is nothing new and has not merely been prompted by recent events.
Investec has long identi ed, and acted on, its desire to do the right thing and be an effective corporate citizen.
However, in keeping with its business model of highly autonomous and independent business units, supported by a strong centre, Investec has chosen not to be prescriptive in this regard.
As the different geographies have different operating environments, with differing areas of emphasis, we have chosen to give our geographies and business units the latitude to determine for themselves what this means, and to pursue accordingly.
For South Africa, being a good corporate citizen, in addition to sustaining a long history of financial success, means embracing the ongoing dynamics of a transforming country, bringing about a more representative workforce and using the resources available within the social investment space to address the countrys recognised backlog of societal ills.
More recently, it has also meant trying to come to grips with climate change considerations in a country where social requirements albeit not mutually exclusive are often seen to be more pressing.
Annual report 2009 209 Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility Outside of the South African business, the pursuit of an active corporate citizenship role within Investec is perhaps less well advanced.
This, for the most part, has re ected the relative newness of our other businesses and their need to grow, build critical mass and ensure the successful integration of acquired businesses.
Over and above the imperative to sustain financial performance, extend brand franchise and attain optimal scale, these businesses have nonetheless sought to support the priorities identi ed within respective national policy agendas, of which climate change is an obvious example in both the UK and Australia.
In view of the emphasis placed on culture and values within Investec, invariably seen to be the DNA and lifeblood of the organisation, our sustainability approach is seen as a logical extension of who we are and how we go about things.
Developments during the year As Investecs annual financial results attest, the group proved both resilient and adept at withstanding the pressures that emanated both globally and in each of its geographies throughout the period.
While there was unrelenting focus on the financial dimension of our sustainability endeavours during the period, our nonfinancial activities remained top of mind, albeit less aggressively driven in view of prevailing external circumstances.
Sustainability developments during the period include: a complete review and strategic re-positioning of our social investment activities the completion or near-completion of a carbon-footprinting exercise across all principal geographies the aggressive pursuit of a country-wide energy-saving campaign in South Africa the launch of a group-wide leadership development trajectory the formal creation of an elected and representative Employment Equity Forum in South Africa further UK audits on the environmental front an initial foray into the realm of alternative technology low-cost housing in South Africa the evolution of a more deeply engrained understanding of sustainability considerations within our risk environment and processes the advent of greater energy ef ciency in the new extension to our head of ce building in Johannesburg.
Over and above our chosen areas of emphasis during the period, we maintained our presence in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the JSE-SRI Index and, post the period close, were admitted to the UKs FTSE4Good Index.
We enjoyed increased UK and European stakeholder and analyst interest in Investecs OBR activities.
Looking ahead A less volatile but still generally unaccommodating period can be expected.
Continued uncertainty about the timing, extent and durability of international economic recovery means that the possibility of renewed market dislocation remains, with attendant consequences for overall activity levels.
The prospect of political change in certain areas may herald changes on national policy agendas while scheduled international climate change negotiations could have far reaching implications for environmental policy.
In the face of widespread uncertainty, from many different sources, a near all-embracing focus on the financial dimensions of sustainability is expected to persist.
However, seen as a cyclical, not structural, phenomenon, this represents no more than a shift in the balance of emphasis, all the while within the realm of the triple bottom line.
The notion of corporate social responsibility is not in terminal decline.
Rather, it nds itself in remission, pending the return of a more conducive business operating environment.
For Investec, having weathered what seems to have been the worst of the financial inclemency, the group seems well poised, by virtue of its solid capital status and liquidity realities, to capitalise on the commercial opportunities that a slowly recovering international economy will provide.
A fast-changing competitive landscape will elicit additional bene ts in select areas.
In terms of our nonfinancial endeavours, we will continue to make incremental advances on many fronts.
The year ahead is unlikely to elicit much in the way of dramatic change, with anticipated steady progress in respect of ongoing projects and previously earmarked objectives.
As fundamental inputs to the pro t dimension of our activities, the disciplines of corporate governance and risk management, tried and tested during the most recent crisis and having proved to serve Investec extremely well, are well entrenched at Investec.
Heightened global attention on these speci c aspects of the triple bottom line has increased our desire to ensure outright consistency with international best practise and, where appropriate, to ne tune our processes.
210 Annual report 2009 Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility The people dimension of our OBR activities will continue to revolve, internally, around the successful recruitment, development, diversity and retention of talent within our employee base and, externally, around the developmental and goal-oriented aspects of our varying social investment activities.
Similarly, within the planet dimension of our OBR activities, internal focus will be on continued behavioural change so as to reduce the size of our overall environmental footprint while our external focus will remain on the selective nancing of alternative technologies.
In the same way that our banking activities are guided by a strong sense of commercial know-how, our sustainability activities are guided by the will to do what makes sense to the organisation.
Reputation remains key and a nely-honed sensitivity to reputational risk management across all our businesses will continue to inform our sustainability approach and drive it in the appropriate manner.
In so doing, we seek to balance, in so far as possible, our obligations to all stakeholders.
Detail pertaining to Investecs OBR activities can be accessed on www.
com en za #home our business responsibility.
Our overall approach is based on the recognition that we are a niched and specialist bank, driven by our culture and values, and guided by our in-house philosophy, which states: In pursuit of sustainable profi ts, we seek to be a positive infl uence in all our business activities, in each of the societies within which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, recognising the true value of diversity and addressing the challenge posed by climate change and our use of natural resources.
Annual report 2009 211 information Additional information
