Risk and governance Internal Audit Internal Audit provides objective and independent assurance to management and the board that group processes are adequate to identify the signi cant risks to which we are exposed and that the control environment is effective enough to manage these risks.
Internal Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control and governance processes to address any weaknesses identi ed.
An Internal Audit charter, approved by the Group Audit Committees and reviewed annually, governs our internal audit activity.
The charter fide fines the role, objectives, authority and responsibilities of the function.
As a result of the silo speci c regulatory responsibilities arising from our DLC structure, there are two group Internal Audit departments located in London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
An Internal Audit function reporting into Investec plc also exists in Sydney.
The combined functions cover all of the geographies in which we operate.
These departments use similar risk based methodologies and co-operate technically and operationally.
The heads of Internal Audit report at each Audit Committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
They operate independently of executive management but have access to their local Chief Executive Of cer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For administrative and co-ordination purposes, they also report to the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Our Internal Audit departments have adopted and comply with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of all businesses, from which a comprehensive risk based annual audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the responsible Audit Committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk pro le.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given our dependence on IT systems.
As a result of the continuing instability in the macro economic environment there has been a focus in the past year on the provision of assurance over liquidity, credit and capital management controls.
We also liaise with the external auditors to enhance ef ciencies.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in our operating environment.
The Audit Committee approves any changes to the plan.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment.
Audit teams comprising well-quali ed, experienced staff ensure that the function has the competence to match our diverse requirements.
Where speci c specialist skills or additional resources are required, these will be obtained from third parties as appropriate.
The Internal Audit resources are subject to review by the respective Audit Committees at least once a year.
Signi cant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, where recti cation procedures and progress are considered and monitored at a detailed level by management.
The Audit Committee receives a report on signi cant issues and actions taken by management to enhance related controls.
