Risk and governance Risk management Reputational risk Reputational risk is caused by damage to our reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may result from a breakdown of trust, con dence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may also arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and con dence in the organisation.
Our policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Corporate governance structures and processes in operation throughout the group assist in mitigating this risk.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts Legislation governance Litigation Corporate events Incident or crisis management Ongoing quality control.
The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identi cation and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the risk management process Establishing of minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources Establishing of procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards Establishing of legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the Global Head of Legal Risk.
The Global Head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each signi cant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Of cer of each legal entity.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from fide ned bene t schemes, where Investec plc is expected to provide funds to reduce any fide cit in the schemes.
There are two fide ned bene t schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk could arise if the net present value of future cash out ows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary causes of any fide cit include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities, Market-driven asset price volatility, and Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely, regularly assessing potential adverse movements in the schemes.
Further information is provided on pages 294 to 296.
