Our Divisions Domestic Industrial Specialist Revenue 871.1m Revenue 351.6m Revenue 117.9m Operating Profit 35.8m Operating Profit 29.4m Operating Profit 4.7m Margin 4.1% Margin 8.4% Margin 4.0% Key Facts Key Facts Key Facts 307 PTS branches trading 63 branches trading 28 B & H branches trading 30 new PTS branches opened 2 drainage branches opened B & H trade counters 10 F & P branches trading www.
co. uk relaunched as Tooltastic www.
com B & H stocked range of 60,000 www.
com for online purchases www.
com PTS supply a wide range of customers from The industrial, commercial and process industry, Buck & Hickman is one of the UKs leading national contractors to the sole trading plumbers construction and maintenance markets are distributors of tools, maintenance and and heating engineers.
serviced through BSS Industrial in the UK and health and safety products.
Customers are serviced across all includes 23,000 items which are marketed The PTS central buying team works closely with industrial sectors.
under Buck & Hickmans Roebuck own-brand.
leading manufacturers so that we can offer our Buck & Hickman offers a range of industry customers the latest product innovations and Specialist teams provide technical sales support leading value added solutions including Vendor the best range of market leading brands at and a nationwide branch network is supported Managed Inventory and eProcurement.
With five regional distribution by a Central Logistics team as well as a National centres PTS is able to offer unrivalled local level Distribution Centre based at Lutterworth, Price Tools and Birchwood Products recently of service backed up by a national support Leicestershire, which provides daily delivery merged to form Birchwood Price Tools BPT network.
Locally the branches provide a fast services to all branches.
and is a wholesaler of power tools and and efficient delivery either direct to the accessories, hand tools, safety wear and The National Tube Distribution Centre at construction site or to the customers premises.
general consumables to established dealers Coventry offers a unique solution for linear across sectors covering both trade and industry Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitaryware is distribution.
It is designed to store around 398 as well as being a designer and global importer supplied through F & P Wholesale providing linear tube products in stainless and carbon of equipment for construction and related national coverage.
The needs of independent steel, plastic, cast iron and copper, and is industries, primarily focused on the repair and plumbers merchants and appliance outlets are supported by a fleet of articulated vehicles.
The company has a serviced through daily deliveries and competitive Specialist brands Pegler & Louden, Austin reputation for creating innovative product pricing.
Each centre has a team of TOOLS Stroud, Havelock Controls and Manor Plastics solutions under the brand names of Scruffs, Van knowledgeable staff ready to assist customers.
enhance our service offering to the industrial Vault, Defender, Rhino and U-GO.
BPTs DHS, a leading wholesaler and distributor repair, maintenance and improvement customers include tool hire, builders merchants, of spare parts to the heating industry, was RMI markets.
electrical wholesalers and tool retailers.
acquired on 2 April 2009 and now forms part operating profit prior to amortisation of intangibles of the Domestic Division.
Our Brands Direct Heating Spares This Business Review contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, operations and business of The BSS Group plc.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward statements.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 1
