Business Review Domestic Despite the recession the Domestic Division has continued to grow market share, this growth has been achieved by focusing on improving customer service, product availability, retaining competitive terms and having knowledgeable staff that assist our customers During the year, PTS opened 30 new branches The Domestic Division increased revenue by 3.7% in the financial year against 2008 with like which takes the total number of trading locations across PTS and Spendlove C. Jebb for like revenue decreasing by 1.5%, new branches contributed 4.8% of growth and an to 307.
The new branches continue to add Market Drivers additional working day a further 0.4%.
The value and variation of the new branch weakening trend in sales in the second quarter proposition to meet the opportunities offered 1.
Steady Market of the financial year, caused by a sharp in local markets has underpinned the solid Boiler and radiator markets steady: 95% contraction in domestic new build activity, returns achieved.
sold as replacement continued into the second half.
As the Over the last year we have seen growth in recession took hold the repairs and Four of the 30 new branches opened in the market share for both boilers and radiators.
The maintenance market tightened as some end year were contract branches making six in all.
UK housing stock and the average life of a user customers deferred boiler replacement These branches offer commercial sanitaryware boiler dictates that on average the UK will and opted to repair existing facilities.
This shift and allow the business to take advantage of supply over 1.4m units per annum.
This in the marketplace accelerated our decision to the strong market demand for these products replacement is driven by the life cycle of the acquire our parts partner: Direct Heating which was historically dominated by product and not by economics.
Sales across all contract branches have been strong with Total sales in the second half were 1.8% lower contract gains to refurbish schools, hospitals 2.
Renewables than last year and like for like sales were down and hotels.
The contract branches enter Focus on renewable energy 5.0% against last year.
The primary driver for 2009 10 with good order books.
The awareness of renewable energy has sales of boilers, radiators, pipes and increased the sales throughput for PTS.
accessories remains replacement on a repair Sales reduction within the new build segment Legislation around sustainable codes for and maintenance basis of existing housing of the market has cost PTS in excess of 35m housing has resulted in both the new build stock.
Despite some marginal loss of volume in lost revenue.
This has been primarily due to and social housing market taking advantage the core boiler market has continued to hold the curtailment of new building activity in the of technology to achieve improved SAP ratings up well and our boiler sales volume increased year.
The business has however seen growth where insulation alone is not an option.
in its small installer sales and has secured contract gains to refurbish housing stock The Domestic Division has continued to grow and recruited new customers from our 3.
Spares market share, this growth has been achieved competitors.
The social housing market Spares market now worth 200m by focusing on improving customer service, continues to hold up and PTS continues PTS continues to develop this market which maintaining good product availability, retaining to enjoy a strong market position.
has the benefit of being counter cyclical.
competitive terms and having knowledgeable When an appliance fails, the choice to repair is staff that assist our customers.
The Division The Division has continued to invest in new not optional and therefore the market remains has increased the number of active customer growth streams which have partly offset buoyant.
Since entering the market in 2006 the accounts and we have invested in new contraction in traditional market segments.
business has continued to take market share.
products and improved stock efficiency.
Being Renewable technology continues to become Double digit sales growth reflects continued flexible and keeping close to our customers a core part of our future strategy.
gains and an increased number of PTS through enhanced service remains key to the branches stocking parts and the number success of the Division.
of contracts and branches increased as a consequence.
8 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 David YoungBranch Supervisor Lee Williams Warehouse Person Driver PTS Birmingham - Aston Like for like sales were 8% up on last year, PTS now supplies a complete range of solar, heat pump and bio mass technology.
Sales a new branch was opened at Naas, west of Dublin, taking the total number of branches continue to increase across all sectors including new build and local authority in Ireland up to seven: six in the north and specifications.
To this end we opened Aylesford Naas in the south.
We continue to see in the year, a 22,000 sq ft branch and opportunities to grow share in Ireland warehouse with the ability to distribute across despite the market downturn.
the whole of the south east.
Sales for the Group of renewable products have exceeded F & P distributes heating, plumbing and 10m for the first time in the financial year.
bathroom products nationally to independent merchants, fire and bathroom showrooms.
Our delivery promise of one tomorrow means one Spare parts continue to deliver excellent of anything we sell, delivered within 24 hours, growth.
PTS now has 90 locations selling applies across most of the UK and is valued by spares and in 2008 09 PTS exceeded its our customers at a time when many of them annual sales budget with over 10m of sales.
have reduced their working capital investment.
The spares market, estimated to be in excess The core business is distribution of branded of 200m, has strong market dynamics during boilers complemented by F & Ps own brand, economic downturns.
Contracts recently Procombi boilers, which increased volume awarded give PTS confidence it will continue to sales by 26%.
A range of own brand bathroom take market share and grow in a sector which products under the banner of Fresssh have has considerable growth potential.
The been introduced in the last year and sales are acquisition of Direct Heating Spares Ltd, a well ahead of our expectations.
The business leading wholesaler and distributor of spare currently operates from 10 branches nationally parts to the heating industry, on 2 April 2009 with a new branch opening in Scotland in will further enhance spares profitability and August 2009.
Revenue significantly improve market penetration.
% As markets have tightened in the second half, The Domestic Division has worked closely with 871.1m 3.7 action has been taken to reduce costs its supplier base to improve commercial terms 2008: 840.1m throughout the Division to reflect deteriorating and to develop further growth through creating economic conditions.
A programme of cost win win trading strategies.
Gross margin has Operating Profit reduction has continued throughout the half been enhanced by direct sourcing commodity with PTS headcount down 7% on last year product from low cost countries which has % on a like for like basis.
Both PTS and F & P supported own brand margins.
35.8m -15.0 Wholesale enter the new financial year well 2008: 42.1m positioned to meet the challenges Spendlove C. Jebb, the Northern Ireland based of a recessionary market.
merchant has had a good year, despite Margin economic difficulties in both the north and south of Ireland.
% 4.1 2008: 5.0% The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 9
