Business Review Specialist Second stage in Buck & Hickman recovery plan has been completed.
Focus is now on growth and improving operational performance B & H sales proposition supports large end The Specialist Division serves the maintenance, repair and overhaul market which is estimated user customers with their general maintenance and overhaul procurement requirements and is to be worth in excess of 3bn.
The market includes power tools, hand tools, personal geared to meet their needs in a cost down protective equipment, janitorial product and environment.
B & H continues to have an general industrial supplies.
Buck & Hickman attractive offer and sales have remained stable sells to end user industrial customers and despite a number of customers cutting back Birchwood Price Tools sells predominantly to production activity.
B & H has commenced the third stage of the Market Drivers Buck & Hickman has made considerable recovery plan, which is focused on growth.
The progress in its second full year of Group wider economic environment is now more 1.
Well Positioned in Market ownership despite like for like revenue being challenging than two years ago but significant Maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO 3.8% down on last year, better gross margin, market opportunities remain.
We are targeting market worth over 3bn cost savings and further operating efficiencies recruitment of new customers and new The market includes power tools, hand tools, resulted in profit increasing by 25%.
personal protective equipment, cutting tools, abrasives and general industrial supplies.
The There has been significant change in the The trade counter offer has been developed efficiencies achieved put the Division in position B & H business as the second stage in the with the introduction of Tooltastic which allows to drive advantage.
Sectors that have recovery plan was successfully completed with B & H to take its service levels and product continued investment programmes such as rail replacement of the trading, operating and range into the trade and construction markets.
With the financial security financial systems in December 2008.
This The Tooltastic brand is also supported by its provided by the Group, Flight to Safety will be investment was essential and provides B & H own website www.
28 trade a positive consequence of a changing with branch based customer facing systems counters have now been launched under the economy that needs to be confident in their that are geared to supporting a network of local Tooltastic banner.
medium to long term partner branches with MRO product.
Re-establishment of Trade Counters The branch network has been re-established with 28 trade counters re-opened.
The trade counter proposition has been developed with the introduction of Tooltastic in order to take service level and product range into the trade and construction markets 3.
Direct Low Cost Sourcing The Specialist Division has a well established procurement function that is unlocking considerable new value for the Group 12 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Brenda Dawkes Internal Sales Trevor Franklin Internal Sales Buck & Hickman Birmingham Trading conditions in 2008 for Birchwood A number of major contracts were successfully renegotiated during the course of the year with Products and Price Tools have been difficult as whilst there is a healthy spread of sales to a B & H securing three year agreements which provide continuity and opportunity into the variety of sectors some have been adversely medium term for in excess of 30% of sales.
affected by the economic slowdown.
The outlook for 2009 will be more challenging but Price Tools and Birchwood Products were the new business is well positioned post merged on 1 April 2009 to form Birchwood integration with a lower cost base, and an Price Tools BPT.
The new company is exciting product development plan.
focussed on the wholesale market distributing power tools, hand tools and site equipment in The IT systems have been merged and the the UK.
The integration creates a powerful business has been restructured with the product proposition through the combination of Nottingham site now the head office and main leading manufacturer and proprietary brands.
The Birmingham trade The new product offer, taken to market via a counter has been developed into a major branch comprehensive catalogue and the national to further support local independent dealers.
sales force, represents a considerable cross-selling opportunity.
Revenue % 117.9m 5.6 2008: 111.7m Adjusted Operating Profit % 4.7m 62.1 2008: 2.9m Margin % 4.0 2008: 2.6% operating profit prior to amortisation of intangibles 1.5m 2008: 0.4m and redundancy costs 0.1m 2008: 1.2m The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13
