Business Review Industrial The Division continues to outperform the market and to build on its reputation for service, reliability and technical expertise Many of our customers have strong order The Industrial Division has had a good year.
Like for like revenue increased by 3.9% 2008: books and although we recognise that secure funding is key to maintaining the flow 12.9% growth with operating profit increasing by 17.1%, the operating margin increased to of new project work we are encouraged by 8.4% 2008: 7.4%.
Sales growth slowed in the the level of new contract business that is being second half of the year, as expected, with like secured.
Olympics related business has for like revenue flat, against first half growth of commenced and we continue to build revenue 7.6%.
Sales volume growth has been sustained beyond our market leading position in the throughout the financial year but price deflation heating and ventilation sector.
on copper and steel in the second half has slowed momentum.
The Division has continued to expand its added value offering in technical and support services The Division continues to outperform the through its own brands.
market and to build on its reputation for service, reliability and technical expertise.
Major project A major investment has gone into Manor work remains key to the Divisions success, Plastics with a new logistical platform being put capitalising on investment in health, education into Magna Park which provides a next day and infrastructure projects both public and service direct to the customer for all industrial Market Drivers private.
The Division benefits from its national plastic products, both fittings and tube.
AMS distribution capability, from investment in stock, Pumps was awarded, for the second year 1.
Infrastructure with experienced management maintaining running, Pumps Distributor of the Year and Continued spend in project work strong customer relationships.
was recognised for the work completed on energy surveys that help our clients to reduce Crossrail, BSF, Heathrow, MOD their energy requirements by replacing accommodation, hospitals and prisons: all inefficient pumps.
these and more provide huge opportunities 2.
Drainage Market Entry in market with steady increase in sales BSS has developed a new offering for a market worth in excess of 200m above ground.
Driving for significant growth and expansion into this market 3.
Alternative sectors Focus on marine, water and food industries AMP5 releases 19bn committed to invest in water treatment.
BSS has core ranges and technical expertise to capitalise on this opportunity 10 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Bill  Alan Hodgkinson Warehouseperson BSS Smethwick Major investment is being undertaken under Ongoing repair and maintenance work continues to grow in importance, sales focus the Asset Management Programme AMP to improve water treatment and environmental has been improved and work completed to drive sales of controls and heating spares standards in the water industry.
The Division is through the launch of our Havelock website well positioned to support major investment in complemented with dedicated sales focus.
capital works and has been successful in This trading platform has been well received by securing a number of framework agreements our customers and supports sales growth on with tier one contractors working in the sector.
This sales initiative, not only provides full technical details of all stocked In addition, above ground drainage is a 200m parts, but also allows orders to be placed and market that offers considerable growth card purchases to be accepted over the web.
potential for the industrial Division.
A new implant branch has been opened within Further investment has been made in our existing Industrial premises at Chessington, branch network with the opening of the west of London.
Early results are encouraging, first new Industrial branch in 10 years in necessary expertise has been acquired and a Portsmouth.
We are encouraged by customer further five implant branches are being reaction in the local market and are reviewing opened in the first half of the new financial year.
the opportunities to open additional branches with variation in the proposition to fit with The Division continues to seek to improve local needs.
the breadth and quality of earnings.
The current pipeline of work remains strong but A number of new sectors have been targeted.
the inherent risks are recognised in the need The Industrial Division recognises the need to for our customers to have secure funding.
diversify and a number of opportunities are Diversification into new market sectors is being being pursued that offer new revenue potential.
pursued aggressively to improve the mix of Revenue sales and the spread of funding sources recognising that Government sourced finance % will in due course be significantly reduced.
