4 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Our vision To differentiate JLT as the best, To achieve our vision we have set the following though not the biggest, strategic priorities: international group of risk specialists and employee Reinforcing JLTs distinctive identity benefits consultants.
Building on the successful introduction of the new JLT brand and To achieve this we offer our continuing to reinforce it both externally and internally.
clients and business partners a Differentiating JLT from our competitors through a single-minded focus distinctive choice through a on both understanding and meeting the needs of our clients.
combination of independence, Continuing to demonstrate and build on JLT's distinctive values and flexibility of approach, scale culture, enabling us to attract and retain the very best industry professionals.
Recognising and rewarding the contribution of our people Central to our culture is the primary importance we place How are we doing this?
on the needs of our clients.
Supporting and developing the capabilities and careers of our people.
We look to succeed by Incentivising employees through results related remuneration which responding to their needs.
reflects the performance of the individual, the business area and the wider JLT Group.
Continuous investment in Encouraging employee share ownership wherever possible throughout people, products and software the Group.
platforms, together with Focusing and building the Groups activities where we can accretive acquisitions, develop market leadership positions enhances our capacity to How are we doing this?
Making a clear choice to develop as a leader in the geographic Successful fulfillment of our locations and areas of activity where we excel.
vision will result in sustained Developing the composition of the Group and accelerating growth by continuing to invest in carefully targeted recruitment, market leading growth in revenues, profits, products and platforms, and targeted accretive acquisitions.
dividends and the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
Expanding our international reach and representation How are we doing this?
Offering multi-national companies flexible global service tailored to their needs through the JLT Network of owned and associated firms that is worldwide and agile.
Developing an international employee benefits capability, taking full advantage of our market leading, online delivery platform.
IIn nttr ro od du uc cttiio on n B Bu us siin ne es ss s R Re ev viie ew w C Co or rp po or ra atte e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nc ciia all S Stta atte em me en ntts s Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 5 JLT combines the scale Working as a single Group to give all clients access to our specialist professionals and resource necessary How are we doing this?
to serve the world's Meeting the needs of clients in the industries we target through specialist leading companies and teams that bring together world leading professionals in major insurance the flexibility of a centres.
smaller group ensuring Integrating our retail representation around the world with these fast moving and open professional teams to provide a seamless service to clients wherever they are located.
internal communications and a flexible response Providing the very best risk transfer services to independent US brokers to our clients needs.
Through a clear focus on enabling independent brokers to tap into our industry specialist teams.
Providing US independents with the unique combination of access to international markets for large or complex risks, plus worldwide retail coverage for their multi-national clients.
Providing clients with the solutions to deliver todays and tomorrows employee benefits How are we doing this?
Providing consultancy, delivery and administration that enable employers both to address historic problems and provide the right benefits for present and future employees.
Creating a market leading benefits platform - BenPal - to provide international online delivery of benefits.
Investing in quality and efficiency of systems and delivery How are we doing this?
By committing to automated back-office and delivery processes where these can benefit our clients.
In 2009 launching a Business Transformation Programme designed to improve the quality and efficiency of administration and deliver enhanced performance across the Group.
Streamlining activities where this can be shown to improve quality of delivery.
Operating with the very best practices and the highest ethical standards How are we doing this?
Through a Group-wide philosophy of never cutting corners.
Comprehensively integrating risk management into the strategic and operational decision making process throughout the Group.
