26 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Directors Report by the order in which the names stand in Principal activities and Shareholders rights the Register of Members in respect of the business review Dividends and distributions share.
Voting rights in relation to Treasury Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a Shareholders can declare final dividends shares are suspended and the voting rights holding company.
by passing an ordinary resolution but the are not normally exercised in respect of the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the Its principal subsidiary and associated shares held in the employee benefit trusts.
amount recommended by the Board.
undertakings are engaged in risk The Board can pay interim dividends Restrictions on voting management advice, insurance & whenever the financial position of the No member, unless the directors otherwise reinsurance broking and the provision of Company, in the opinion of the Board, determine, is entitled to vote either in employee benefit services.
person or by proxy at any general meeting The Operating & Financial Review, in respect of any shares held by him if any The Board can withhold payment of all or comprising the Chairmans Statement, call or other sum then payable by him in any part of any dividend or other monies Chief Executives Report, Review of respect of that share remains unpaid.
In payable in respect of the Companys Operations and Finance Directors Review addition, no member is entitled to vote if shares from any person with a 0.25 per on pages 6 to 23 report on the Group's he has been served with a notice after cent interest as defined in the Articles if development during the year under review failure to provide the Company with that person has been served with a notice and on the outlook for the future.
These information concerning interests in those after failure to provide the Company with fulfil the requirements of the Business shares required to be provided under the information concerning interest in those Review and are incorporated in this report Companies Act.
shares required to be provided under the by reference.
In addition, the Directors Deadlines for exercising voting may deduct from any dividend payable to rights Results and dividends any member all sums of money if any Votes may be exercised in person, by The financial statements deal with the presently payable by him to the Company proxy, or in relation to corporate members, consolidated results of the Group for the on account of calls or otherwise in relation by corporate representative.
The Articles year ended 31st December 2009, which to shares of the Company.
The Directors provide a deadline for submission of proxy are shown on pages 46 to 104.
The profit may retain any dividends payable on forms of not less than 48 hours before the attributable to shareholders amounted to shares on which the Company has a lien, time appointed for the holding of the 70,889,000 2008: 63,611,000. and may apply the same in or towards meeting or adjourned meeting and the The unconsolidated financial statements for satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or notice of Annual General Meeting will the Company to 31st December 2009, engagements in respect of which the lien specify the deadline for exercising voting prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, exists.
Voting rights Variation of rights The directors recommend the payment of a On a show of hands at a general meeting, If at any time the capital of the Company final dividend of 12.5 pence per share every member present in person has one is divided into different classes of shares which, together with the interim dividend of vote and on a poll every member who is then, subject to statute, the Articles specify 8.5 pence per share paid in October present in person or by proxy has one vote that rights attached to any class of shares 2009 amounts to a total dividend of for each share held.
In the case of joint may be varied with the written consent of 21.0 pence per share 2008: 20.5 pence holders of a share the vote of the senior the holders of at least 75% nominal value per share.
who tenders a vote whether in person or of the issued shares of that class, or with by proxy will be accepted to the exclusion the sanction of an extraordinary resolution of the votes of the other joint holders and passed at a separate general meeting of for this purpose seniority will be determined the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum is two persons holding or representing by Substantial shareholders proxy at least one-third in nominal value of At 19th March 2010 being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this report, the the issued shares of the class calculated Company had been notified of the following major interests, each representing 3% or more of excluding any shares held as treasury the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited's shares.
interest is held through its wholly owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic A member that is a corporation may Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under Section appoint an individual to act on its behalf at 823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006. a general meeting or class meetings as a Ordinary corporate representative.
The person so Shareholder shares % Held authorised shall be entitled to exercise the JMH Investments Limited 65,155,665 30.26% same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could Silchester International Investors Limited 34,337,073 15.94% exercise if it were an individual member of RBC cees Trustees Limited 8,611,170 4.00% the Company.
Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 27 Transfer of shares stand for re-election at the next Annual Relationship with Jardine Matheson All transfers of shares may be effected by General Meeting.
Group transfer in writing in any usual or common During the year, the Group continued to In addition, the Articles of Association and form or in any other form acceptable to the have a number of arms-length trading links the Combined Code require each director directors.
The instrument of transfer must be with Jardine Matheson Group companies, to stand for re-election at least once every signed by or on behalf of the transferor the financial implications of which are three years and Lord Leach and Simon and except in the case of fully-paid shares given in note 33 on page 102.
Keswick are required to stand for reby or on behalf of the transferee.
The election annually, having been in office for transferor shall remain the holder of the The Board over nine years.
shares concerned until the name of the Appointment and replacement of transferee is entered in the Register of Accordingly, Richard Harvey, Lord Leach, Directors Members of the Company.
The directors Simon Keswick, William Nabarro and Jim With the exception of Richard Harvey who may, at any time after the allotment of any Rush will retire at the forthcoming Annual was appointed a director during the year, share, but before any person has been General Meeting and, being eligible, will the directors shown on pages 24 and 25 entered in the Register of Members as the offer themselves for re-election.
Brian served throughout the year.
holder, recognise a renunciation by the Carpenter will retire from the Board at the allottee in favour of some other person and conclusion of the forthcoming Annual Richard Harvey was appointed to the may accord to any allottee of a share a General Meeting.
The service contracts for Board as an independent non-executive right to effect such renunciation upon and Lord Leach and Messrs Harvey and director on 17th December 2009. subject to such terms and conditions as the Keswick are subject to a three month Chris Keljik retired from the Board as a directors may think fit to impose.
non-executive director on 30th April 2009 of shares which are in uncertificated form The Company is required to give 364 and John Paynter assumed the role of are effected by means of the CREST days notice under the service contracts Chairman of the Remuneration Committee system.
with Messrs Nabarro and Rush.
Patrick Snowball retired The directors may refuse to register a from the Board on 1st July 2009.
During the past twelve months, a formal transfer of certificated shares that are not evaluation of the Board, its committees and The rules relating to the appointment and fully paid provided that the refusal does not individual directors has been undertaken.
replacement of directors are set out in the prevent dealings in that class of shares Articles of Association, under which the The Board performance evaluation was from taking place on an open and proper minimum number of directors must be no undertaken by means of individual basis.
The directors may also refuse to less than 2 and this number may be questionnaires that were summarised and register an allotment or transfer of shares increased or reduced by ordinary debated by the board or the relevant whether fully-paid or not in favour of more resolution.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer The Board can appoint any person to be a they must within two months after the date director and any person so appointed must on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the Board attendance allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument Board Audit Remuneration Nominations of transfer is in respect of only one class of meeting Committee Committee Committee share and when submitted for registration Note 7 x in period 5 x in period 3 x in period 3 x in period is accompanied by the relevant share G M T Howe 7- - 3 certificates and such other evidence as the D J Burke 7- - - directors may reasonably require.
B P Carpenter 6- - - C A Keljik 23 2 1 - Subject to statutes and applicable CREST S L Keswick 64 2 2 rules, the directors may determine that any Lord Leach 7- 3 3 class of shares may be held in N R MacAndrew 75 3 3 uncertificated form and that title to such W J N Nabarro 7- - - shares may be transferred by means of the J G H Paynter 75 3 3 CREST system or that shares of any class J W Rush 7- - - should cease to be so held and P Snowball 3 43 1 - transferred.
R J Harvey 11 - 1 - A shareholder does not need to obtain the V Y A C Wade 6- - - approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for Note: 1.
Appointed to the Board on 17th December 2009 2.
Retired from the Board on 30th April 2009 a transfer of shares to take place.
Retired from the Board on 1st July 2009 28 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Directors Report continued The non-executive directors, led by the The Board meets at least six times a year, In addition, the Committee meets senior independent director, also carried to review the performance of the Group separately with the external and internal out a performance evaluation of the and to discuss the matters reserved for auditors.
Details of the attendance of each Chairman during this period.
its decisions, which include, inter alia, member are set out on page 27. the approval of Group strategy and Full details of the directors remuneration The work of the Committee during 2009 budget plans, material expenditure and interests are shown in the and to the date of this Report included: authorisations and any other matters that Remuneration Report.
Reviewing the drafting of the Interim are referred to it.
Directors are not required to hold any Report, Preliminary Announcement and The Board has established a number of shares of the Company by way of the Annual Report and Accounts before standing committees including an Audit qualification.
their submission to the Board: Committee, a Nominations Committee and At the date of this report the Board is Receiving regular reports from a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of comprised of five executive directors and management on UK IT issues including reference of these Committees are six non-executive directors including the the outsourced services for IT available on the Company's website.
Infrastructure and governance thereof: Relationship with shareholders Reviewing areas where control Directors interests and potential The Board endeavours to maintain conflicts weaknesses had been identified by dialogue with institutional shareholders and internal external audit and monitoring During the period, no director had any carries out a programme of meetings and material interest in a contract, disclosable mitigation remediation plans of presentations each year following the management: pursuant to s175 Companies Act 2006, to publication of interim and final results and which the Company or any of its at other times as appropriate.
At the Reviewing the regular reports of the subsidiary undertakings was a party.
Annual General Meeting the Chairmen of external auditors including internal the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration control issues: Following the changes made to the Committees will be available to answer Companys Articles at the 2008 Annual Receiving and reviewing reports from questions.
General Meeting and the subsequent business risk & compliance and internal introduction of Section 175 of the audit functions on a regular basis: Committees of the Board Companies Act, 2006 on 1st October Approving the external audit plan and The Audit Committee 2008 which gave Boards the statutory fee proposal and considering auditor The Committee members are non-executive power to authorise conflicts of interest, independence in relation to non-audit directors, a majority of whom are formal conflict management procedures services provided: independent.
The membership of the have been prepared and approved by the Committee during the year comprised: Board.
The Board is responsible for Evaluating the performance of the Nick MacAndrew Chairman, Simon reviewing and authorising any conflict external auditors: Keswick, John Paynter and Patrick declarations arising and these are subject Reviewing the progress of the UK Snowball until he retired from the Board to periodic review by the Board.
These general insurance intermediaries within on 1 July 2009.
Richard Harvey joined procedures remain in place for the year the Group in respect of the Risk the Committee effective from the January and no Conflicts of Interest have been Mitigation Programme following the 2010 meeting, following his appointment reported.
FSA risk assessment visits in 2009: to the Board on 17th December, 2009.
Powers of the Directors and Board Reviewing Group Errors & Omissions Mr MacAndrew is a chartered accountant procedures provisions: and his profile is noted on page 25.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act The Board considers that the members of 2006 and any directions given by special Review of the Group's Risk the Committee have, collectively, the resolution, the business of the Company is Management functions and structure: requisite skills and experience to enable it managed by the Directors who may Considering the Group's overall risk to discharge its responsibilities in a proper exercise all the Companys powers, management profile and controls: and manner.
including borrowing money, mortgaging or Reviewing the effectiveness of the charging any of its undertaking, property The Committee met five times during the Committee.
and uncalled capital and issuing year, with representatives from the external debentures and other securities, whether and internal auditors, and the Group External auditors outright or as collateral security for any Finance Director and Group Legal Director The Committee is responsible for debt, liability or obligation of the normally in attendance at each meeting.
overseeing the relationship with the Company or of any third party.
The Chairman and the Group Chief external auditor.
Executive may also attend, subject to There are established formal procedures for availability.
the structure and authorities through which the Board discharges its responsibilities for the direction and management of the Group.
Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 29 During the year, the Committee: Reviewed a report by the head of Assistance was provided to the Committee internal audit on Risk Management & by the Chairman, Chief Executive and HR Approved their remuneration for both Control: and Strategy Director, none in relation to their audit and non-audit services, including own remuneration, and by Hewitt New satisfying itself that the level of audit fee Met the head of internal audit, without Bridge Street HNBS, a trading name of is appropriate to enable an adequate management being present, to discuss Hewitt Associates.
audit to be conducted: their remit and any issues arising from the internal audits carried out.
HNBS were appointed by the Approved terms of engagement, Remuneration Committee to act as advisers including any engagement letter issued The Terms of Reference of the Audit to the Committee and they have no other at the start of each audit and the Committee cover all matters indicated by connection with the Company.
scope of the audit: the Combined Code and include responsibility for providing advice to the Nominations Committee Assessed their independence: Board on the Groups interim and financial The membership of the Committee during Approved the annual audit plan and statements: on accounting policies and on the year comprised: Lord Leach ensured that it was consistent with the the control of its financial and business Chairman : Geoffrey Howe: Chris Keljik scope of the audit engagement: risks as well as reviewing the work of the to 30th April 2009, Simon Keswick: internal and external auditors.
Nick MacAndrew: John Paynter and Reviewed the findings of the audit, Patrick Snowball to 1st July 2009. including discussion of any major The Terms of Reference of the Committee Richard Harvey joined the Committee issues arising, any accounting and were amended with effect from 1st March effective from the January 2010 meeting, audit judgements and the internal 2010 to reflect the committee's following his appointment to the Board on control reports, including responses responsibilities for the review of the 17th December 2009. from management and any proposed Group's Risk Management framework, risk remedial action: and appetite and strategy to ensure that they The Committee utilised network contacts for are appropriate to the activities of the the recruitment of Richard Harvey and Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group and to make recommendations to external advisers were not engaged for this external auditors.
The Committee was renamed process as a similar search had recently The Audit Committee held meetings with the Audit and Risk Committee at the same been carried out.
the external auditors without management date.
The Committee met three times during the present.
The Committee schedules this into A copy of the Terms of Reference can be year.
Its purpose is to make its timetable as a matter of course and the obtained from the Company Secretary and recommendations to the Board on the Chairman of the Committee may meet is displayed on the Groups website at appointment of directors of the Company privately with external auditors at other http: www.
and to consider succession plans for senior times.
management positions in the Company.
In addition the Audit Committee, through its The Audit Committee considers that the The terms of reference of the committee are Chairman, formally reports to the Board on relationship with the auditors is working available on the Companys website.
well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not Group Executive Committee Remuneration Committee The Group Executive Committee is an considered it necessary to date to require The Committee consists of non-executive the firm to tender for the audit work.
advisory group to the Chief Executive who directors, a majority of whom are has primary responsibility for the day-toindependent.
The membership of the Internal audit function day management of the Groups Committee during the year comprised: The Committee is required to assist the operations.
Chris Keljik Chairman to 30th April Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to 2009 : John Paynter Chairman from 30th Corporate governance the adequacy of the resourcing and plans April 2009 Lord Leach: Simon Keswick: During the year the Company has been of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil Nick MacAndrew, and Patrick Snowball in compliance with the provisions as set these duties, the Committee: to 1st July 2009.
"Richard Harvey joined out in the 2008 Combined Code on Reviewed and assessed the annual the Committee upon his appointment to Corporate Governance the ""Code"" internal audit plan: the Board on 17th December 2009. except for the following: Reviewed all reports on the Group The Remuneration Committee met three Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and from the internal auditors: times during the year."
It is responsible, inter Simon Keswick both served as nonalia, for setting the remuneration and terms Reviewed the co-ordination between executive directors and both are and conditions of the executive directors internal and external auditors: directors of Jardine Matheson Holdings and setting overall remuneration policy for Limited, which has a 30.26% interest Reviewed and monitored senior management of the Group.
management's responsiveness to the approves the allocations under all long findings and recommendations of the The relationship with Jardine Matheson term incentive plans and share option internal auditor: is maintained on an arms-length basis schemes.
as detailed in note 33 on page 102.
30 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Directors Report continued However neither director can be Chairman or a non-executive director as failure to achieve business objectives and regarded as independent in the context appropriate.
All directors also have access can provide only reasonable assurance, of the Code.
to the advice and services of the Company but not absolute assurance, against Secretary.
The Board believes that the presence of Lord Leach and Mr Keswick on the The Company maintains appropriate Directors responsibilities Board and its committees subject to redirectors and officers liability insurance in The following statement should be read in election under the Articles continues to respect of legal actions against its conjunction with the Independent Auditors be appropriate and in the interests of directors.
Reports on page 45 and 106. shareholders generally and does not The directors are responsible for detract from their independence and Share capital preparing the Annual Report, the judgment on any relevant issue.
Movements in the share capital of the Directors Remuneration Report and the company during the year ended 31st The non-executive directors bring to the financial statements in accordance with December 2009 are set out in note 25 on Board a broad range of experience applicable law and regulations.
The directors are required to present for At 31st December 2009 the issued share The knowledge held by Lord Leach and each accounting period financial capital consisted of 214,390,366 Mr Keswick built from the long standing statements which give a true and fair view ordinary shares of 5p each with voting relationship between Jardine Matheson of the state of affairs of the Company and rights and 1,143,131 shares are held as and JLT continues to be of particular the Group at the end of the financial year Treasury shares for which voting rights value.
and of the profit or loss of the Group for would not be exercised.
Apart from the period between 1st July The Company has one class of share 2009 and 17th December 2009, the These statements are prepared on the capital being ordinary shares of 5p each majority of the members of the Audit going concern basis unless it is and all the shares rank pari passu.
and Remuneration committees were inappropriate to presume that the Group There are no special control rights in independent.
In addition Lord Leach will continue in business.
respect of the Companys shares.
served on the Remuneration Committee The financial statements must be prepared and Simon Keswick served on both The board has power to implement the in compliance with the required formats these committees during the year, and purchase by the Company of its own and disclosures of the Companies Act 2006, therefore the Group did not comply shares in accordance with the power with applicable accounting standards and, with the Code in relation to the granted at the AGM each year, and will as regards the Group financial statements, membership of these Committees.
be seeking renewal of that power at the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
forthcoming AGM within the limits set out Both the Board and the external auditors It is also the responsibility of the directors to in the notice of that meeting.
have safeguards in place to prevent the ensure that arrangements are made for the compromise of the auditors independence All the Companys share schemes contain maintenance of adequate accounting and objectivity.
Details of services provided provisions relating to a change of control.
records, to safeguard the assets of the by the Groups auditors are set out in note Outstanding options and awards would Group and to prevent and detect fraud 7 on page 70. normally vest and become exercisable on and other irregularities.
a change of control, subject to the The Audit Committee also have a policy on The directors confirm that suitable satisfaction of any performance conditions the engagement of external auditors and accounting policies, consistently applied at that time.
the supply of non-audit services to the and supported by reasonable and prudent Group, including an annual review of the At 31st December 2009, the Jardine Lloyd judgements and estimates, have been used auditors independence.
Thompson Employee Share Trusts held in the preparation of the financial 9,234,143 shares in the Company The external auditors also report regularly statements and that applicable accounting 4.30%.
At the date of this report the on the actions that they have taken to standards have been followed.
shares held by the Trusts was 8,611,170 comply with professional and regulatory So far as the directors are aware, there is 4.00%.
requirements and current best practice in no relevant audit information of which the order to maintain that independence.
Accountability and audit The directors are able to consult the The Board has overall responsibility for the The directors have taken all the steps that Companys legal, financial and other Groups systems of internal control and for they ought to have taken as directors in professional advisers on any matter relating reviewing their effectiveness.
order to make themselves aware of any to the Companys affairs.
relevant audit information and to establish The implementation and maintenance of Any director may make use of this facility that the Companys auditors are aware of the risk management and internal control subject to notifying the Chairman or that information.
systems are the responsibility of the Finance Director.
Executive Directors and senior Directors statement pursuant to the If independent advice is sought, this is management.
The systems are designed to Disclosure and Transparency Rules manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of subject to prior consultation with the Each of the directors, whose names and Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 31 functions are listed on pages 24 and 25 and abilities.
Should employees become No political donations were made by the confirm that, to the best of each persons disabled, every effort will be made to Group.
knowledge and belief: ensure that their employment with the Group continues and, in the event that they Annual General Meeting the financial statements of the Group, are unable to continue to work, that their The notice convening the Annual General prepared in accordance with IFRSs as financial interests are safeguarded.
It is the Meeting to be held on 29th April 2010 at adopted by the EU, and of the intention of the Group that opportunities for 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London Company, prepared in accordance training, career development and EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular with UK GAAP, give a true and fair promotion of disabled persons should, as accompanying this report.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial far as possible, be identical with those for position and profit of the Group and The special business includes the other employees.
Company: and following items: the directors' report contained in the Environmental policy The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: annual report includes a fair review of JLT remains committed to minimising any i the authority of the directors to allot the development and performance of adverse impact its businesses has on the securities of the Company within ABI the business and the position of the environment.
guidelines: Company and Group, together with a To this end, guidelines have been issued description of the principal risks and ii the disapplication of the statutory prewithin the Group, to: uncertainties that they face.
emption rights: carefully manage waste so as to The directors are responsible for the iii the authority of the Company to minimise its production where possible, maintenance and integrity of the Group purchase its own shares by way of or suitably dispose of it through website, www.
Legislation in market purchases: recycling schemes: the UK governing the preparation and iv a waiver of the requirement arising dissemination of financial statements may control and, where possible, restrict under Rule 9 of the City Code on differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
polluting emissions: Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited, together ensure appropriate regulatory Risk management with parties deemed to be acting in compliance: The Groups approach to risk management concert with it, be required to make a design and operate facilities taking into is set out on pages 32 to 34 and form general offer for the Company by account the efficient use of energy and part of this report.
reason of the change in its percentage materials: and holding in the capital of the Company Going concern encourage the adoption of these arising from any such purchase under The directors consider that the Group and guidelines by contractors acting on iii above.
the Company have adequate resources to behalf of the Company.
This is The directors will only consider making continue in operational existence in the discussed in more detail in the purchases of the Companys shares if foreseeable future.
Consequently, the Corporate Social Responsibility they believe that it would be in the best financial statements have been prepared statement on pages 42 and 43. interests of shareholders and would on a going concern basis.
result in an improvement in earnings Suppliers per share: Employment policies The Group agrees payment terms with It is the policy of the Group to provide an v Adoption of new Articles of Association suppliers when it enters into contracts for environment in which individual talents can in line with Companies Act 2006, the the purchase of goods or services and excel.
Employee commitment is Shareholder Rights Directive and best seeks to abide by those terms when it is encouraged with wide share ownership practice.
satisfied that the supplier has provided the and participation in share option schemes.
goods or services in accordance with the Auditors agreed terms and conditions.
Employees are kept informed of the It is proposed that the auditors, performance of the Group and all matters At 31st December 2009 the Company did  LLP, having affecting them as employees by means of not have any direct external supplier signified their willingness to continue in regular briefings and consultation and, creditors.
office, be reappointed auditors of the where possible, using the JLT intranet both The Group does not have a standard or Company.
A resolution proposing their in the UK and overseas.
code that deals specifically with the reappointment will be put to the Annual The Group is an equal opportunities payment of suppliers.
employer and encourages diversity across its workforce.
Donations By order of the Board During the period the Group made Applications for employment by disabled David Hickman charitable donations totalling 229,062 persons will always be fully considered, Company Secretary 2008: 281,402. having regard to their particular aptitudes 22nd March 2010
