Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 19 Employee Benefits continued Principal lines of business Trustee solutions Online benefits Advising on implementing client solutions for pensions, Offering a range of services designed to meet the requirements of pension scheme trustees including reward and flexible benefit plans.
Benpal offers an integrated benefits management solution for companies.
actuarial and investment consulting, administration, governance and communications.
Wealth management Corporate and investment consulting As individual responsibility for retirement savings increases, we offer to individual clients advice, support Providing a range of services to meet the needs of sponsors in managing and fide-risking pension liabilities.
Defined contribution consulting Giving advice on the design, implementation and operation of defined contribution schemes.
Administrator to 1,200 Technology and systems pension schemes Providing a range of systems and web based solutions to with occupational pension schemes and third party administrators.
million members 1.7 Associates SIACI Saint Honor S2H, our 20% owned associate The international healthcare insurance and claims handling company headquartered in Paris, continues to flourish as operation of S2H, principally based in Calgary, Paris and a leading provider of insurance broking and employee Dubai, was expanded in 2009 following the acquisition benefits services to leading French companies and of an established international healthcare operation multi-national corporations.
revenues grew by 3% to Euros 159 million and pre-tax The acquisition gives S2H access to a proven network profits increased 25% to Euros 27 million.
of healthcare providers in China and a claims handling A number of important new business wins have been facility for Asia.
S2H is now establishing itself as a recorded including Alstom, the major engineering leader in meeting the requirements of expatriates and, company, secured as a result of close collaboration increasingly, locals in a large number of countries around between S2H and JLTL's London based specialists.
JLT's retail operations contribute significantly The value of these collaborations and their impact in as introducers of this business and JLTL also provides bringing business to the London market has increased valuable access to insurance markets and contacts.
