12 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Review of operations For the period under review, the Groups operations were divided into two business groups, Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits.
Risk & Insurance Risk & Insurance provides broking and risk management Financial highlights services for clients across an extensive range of business Underlying sectors.
Turnover m trading profit m Principal lines of business 519.9 97.2 Retail 80.0 An international group of retail businesses successful in their local, national and international markets.
448.5 Specialist A world-class group of specialist teams, serving the particular needs of clients in selected industries.
Wholesale One of the largest dedicated wholesalers providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with access to insurance capacity in London, 08 09 08 09 Bermuda and Continental Europe.
Trading margin Reinsurance A reinsurance broker with established areas of specialist expertise, a commitment to bring a more analytical approach and 18% 19% a wider variety of risk management solutions.
2008 2009 The Risk & Insurance group comprises our retail broking operations around the world and our predominately London market based reinsurance broking, specialist risk and wholesale insurance broking business.
In early 2009, there was a general expectation by the market that, as we progressed through that year, insurance rates would increase.
However, by the time of our interim results in July, the industry as a whole was taking a more cautious view and the position remains similar today.
Against these competitive market conditions, the performances of our Risk & Insurance businesses are all the more creditable.
Revenues in 2009 increased by 16%, or 8% at constant rates of exchange CRE, to 519.9 million and trading profit of 97.2 million increased by 22%, driven by strong organic growth of 6%.
Each of our London market operations performed particularly well, with reported revenue growth of 19% or 13% at CRE and organic growth of 10%.
We are continuing to see a trend toward the greater involvement of the London market as the subscription market for large corporate programmes, where clients are seeking a greater spread in their risk transfer strategies.
Our retail broking operations in all territories were affected by competitive market conditions but nevertheless performed well as a whole, with particularly noteworthy performances coming from our substantial businesses in Australia and Asia and growing presence in Latin America.
Assuming that the current benign claims experience continues, there is little reason to expect any change to the competitive market conditions in 2010.
JLT will continue to nurture its track record of growing revenues despite soft market conditions.
On pages 13 to 17 there is a more detailed commentary on the activities and performance of each of our businesses in the Risk & Insurance group.
