Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 13 Risk & Insurance Retail operations Europe Principal lines of business Financial highlights Underlying Corporate Schemes Affinity Turnover m trading profit m Europe achieved positive results when set against a background of economic recession in all of the European retail markets in which we operate.
Our operations 72.8 increased turnover by 3% to 72.8 million, but were flat at constant rates of exchange CRE.
The trading margin for the year declined by 1 percentage point 70.9 to 15%.
Our business trades in two distinct areas: 11.5 Advisory - with a general corporate and industry focus, providing a 11.1 comprehensive service to a wide variety of large to mid-sized organisations.
Non-advisory - specialist schemes and affinity businesses offering services 08 09 08 09 across diverse markets, ranging from professions, social housing and service industries to the leisure and veterinary care industries.
Significant growth was achieved within our non-advisory division led by our online business.
Our advisory division also benefited from our counter-cyclical corporate 16% 15% recovery business working with insolvency practitioners which grew by over 100% 2008 2009 as a result of the adverse economic climate.
Our offices in Italy, Spain and Sweden also achieved strong growth.
Revenue in our Trading conditions throughout our European offices were more challenging than online business expected with premium rates remaining soft despite efforts by the market to move in 44% grew year on year by the other direction.
Australasia Principal lines of business Government Corporate Natural resources & construction Financial lines Affinity Enterprise risk management The growth in consolidated revenue for 2009 was strong considering the economic climate.
Revenue of 87.5 million was up 12% or 2% at CRE on the previous year.
Trading profit of 20.9 million was up 10% on 2008.
Overall, revenue growth was restricted by the recessionary conditions, aggressive competition and cost cutting by clients as well as by the domestic insurance market.
Despite the limited growth in revenue, we managed to maintain the trading margin of 24%.
Risk Services divisions continued to produce excellent results with strong growth in revenue and trading profit.
The retail divisions had mixed results with reductions in Financial highlights trading profit in the natural resources & construction NRC and ProEx segments.
Underlying Trading margin NRC was particularly affected by the contraction of Turnover m trading profit m construction activity and ProEx suffered from the collapse of some major clients and decline in activity in the financial 24% 24% services industry.
20.9 87.5 2008 2009 There was good revenue growth in affinity and regional offices where trading profits and margins were maintained or improved over their 2008 levels.
18.9 Managing the insurance The corporate risks segment had a minor reduction in portfolios of over operating revenues but improved trading profit and margins through cost cutting and restructuring their operations of Local especially in Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
78.2 Authorities in 95% New Zealand results were adversely affected by aggressive Australia and competition and a continuation of the soft market conditions.
