14 Annual Report 2009 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Risk & Insurance Retail operations Asia Financial highlights Principal lines of business Underlying Aviation Construction Capital risks Turnover m trading profit m Energy Property Employee benefits 10.4 Asia registered strong growth, on the back of continued expansion of its business lines.
Turnover 50.9 increased by 25%, 8% at CRE, while trading profit increased by 29%, 13% at CRE.
Growth in Singapore's core business was driven by employee benefits and the major corporate property casualty businesses.
The 2007 and 2008 acquisitions of the Private Client Services and Anda Insurance Group affinity and personal lines businesses respectively provided impetus to this strong showing.
The impact of the poor economic environment on Anda was controlled by a review and 40.6 8.1 rationalisaton process which resulted in minimal effect on trading profits, particularly as the economy showed signs of improvement in late 2009.
Hong Kong operations finished the year strongly.
The acquisition of a small JV company was 08 09 08 09 completed in the final quarter of 2009 and full integration of staff and processes will be completed in the first quarter of 2010.
Trading margin Asia continues to invest strategically in promising growth areas and in acquiring businesses that are a strategic fit.
In 2009, we focused on strengthening our businesses across all lines and exploring new areas for expansion.
The proactive recruitment of new talent in areas such as aviation, capital 20% 21% risks, life, Pro Ex and construction has delivered strong results and we have secured several large 2008 2009 accounts in the region.
We have recruited further senior energy and property professionals who will join us in 2010 and add significantly to our depth and profile.
One of the top 3 brokers Employee Benefits continues to be a key growth area for Asia, notwithstanding the impact in 2009 across Asia, continuing to from the financial crisis.
The Asian business is at present dominated by clients seeking medical products but there is strong potential for expansion into other employee benefit product lines.
JLTs invest in its chosen established reputation in this sector is enabling us to explore the considerable opportunities in the specialties.
Canada Principal lines of business Financial highlights Underlying Construction Natural resources & energy Turnover m trading profit m Corporate Sport, hospitality & leisure 24.8 Canada produced a disappointing turnover of 24.8 million which, whilst a 11% increase over 2008, was flat at CRE.
These results reflected an overall general marketplace slow 3.6 down.
A significant impact came from an economic retrenchment in two of JLT Canada's largest core specialty areas of business: construction and natural resources & energy.
The impact on revenue and a significant increase in staffing to deliver new programmes and 22.4 2.4 sales opportunities were responsible for the fall-off in profits.
Our public sector area continued to expand with a growth in client numbers in this professional practice group sector.
Our seven offices, across British Columbia, Alberta, Ontario and Quebec, expanded their presence in the areas of natural resources, sport, hospitality & leisure and general 08 09 08 09 corporate business.
Trading margin Good progress continues to be made in our Business Transformation Programme, which will enable us to implement optimal back office support to meet client needs more cost effectively.
JLT Canada is positioning itself to expand its market position significantly in 16% 10% existing specialist areas by integrating local opportunities with global JLT initiatives.
2008 2009 This, combined with winning new clients, will produce significant gains as the economic conditions improve.
A leading broker to the natural resources industry in Canada.
