Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2009 15 Latin America Principal lines of business Financial highlights Underlying Energy, oil & power Industrial risk Turnover m trading profit m Employee benefits Aviation 28.5 5.8 Construction JLTs Latin American LATAM business has made good progress in 2009 with strong growth in revenue of 37%, or 26% at CRE.
Strong organic growth of 15.5% was 3.5 recorded and trading profit increased by two thirds.
20.8 JLT LATAM has expanded in all lines of its business with particular progress in the construction and energy fields, as well as in employee benefits.
In addition we continued to produce significant revenue streams to the JLT London market businesses.
We have welcomed a number of new colleagues, particularly in Brazil where we 08 09 08 09 continue to focus on growing our business in both the retail and reinsurance sector.
Trading conditions and competition remain challenging although the LATAM economies Trading margin generally have not suffered as severely as others throughout the world during the downturn.
Ongoing public infrastructure investment is significant and should offer JLT good opportunities in view of its regional specialisms.
17% 20% 2008 2009 Working with the majority of the leading oil & energy companies in Latin America Insurance Management Principal lines of business Financial highlights Underlying Classic captive management Turnover m trading profit m Protected cell vehicles 5.0 Transformer type transactions This has been a year of good growth for JLT Insurance Management against a 0.4 4.3 backdrop of challenging market conditions.
The financial crisis has adversely impacted the number of bank transformer type deals and clients have been less inclined to invest in the establishment of captives because of the pressures on their financial 0.1 resources.
This has been particularly evident in Guernsey with few new entities being 08 09 08 09 formed.
The Insurance Management business provides important insurance tools to our larger corporate clients.
Trading margin JLT Insurance Management operates in Bermuda, Guernsey, Barbados and in Malta through a joint venture.
2% 8% 2008 2009 Managing captives with premiums in excess of US$1.6 billion
