American pp01 18 11 3 10 9:34 am Page 18 Board of Directors Hamish N Buchan Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee A Director since November 2000 and appointed Chairman in April 2003.
Currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc and a Director of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc and Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Mr Buchan has been involved in the investment trust sector for forty years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and is currently a Director and former Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Sarah Bates A Director since July 2005.
A Director of St. Jamess Place plc, Invesco English and International Trust plc, MTI Partners Ltd. New India Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc, Development Securities plc, Space Place Self Storage Telford Ltd and a Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Mrs Bates is also Chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme, of Rutley Russia Property Fund and the Kings Corner Project and sits on the investment committees of Newnham College and the Cancer Research UK Pension fund and is an advisor to East Riding Pension fund and the Royal College of Surgeons Charitable Fund.
She publishes a guide to investment jargon and was formerly CEO of Invescos UK Institutional including investment trusts business.
Kate Bolsover A Director since July 2005.
Until June 2005 Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co. Mrs Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
She is Deputy Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited and a Director of Fidelity Asian Values plc.
James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since July 2003.
A Director of iimia Investment Trust plc.
Mr Fox has more than forty years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
James P Williams A Director since July 2003.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 35 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Investors Capital Trust plc and Prosperity Russia Domestic Fund.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Considered independent by the Board.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
18 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
