Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended 30th to each country is 12% points above or below the benchmark September 2009. index weighting except for Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong and China, where the maximum permitted active exposure is Business Review 15% points above or below the benchmark index weighting.
The maximum permitted exposure to each individual Business of the Company company is 8% of the Companys total assets, excluding The Company carries on business as an investment trust and collective vehicles and Samsung Electronics.
The maximum was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment permitted portfolio weighting of any investment in Samsung trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Electronics is 5% points above that companys weighting in the Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30th benchmark index.
The maximum proportion of the Companys September 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company total assets that may be represented by the five largest has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it continues to holdings in the portfolio is 40%.
The Company will continue to seek approval under permitted with prior approval of the Board.
The Board also Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 permits investment in Australian listed companies, subject to a each year.
limit of 10% of the Companys gross assets.
Approval for the year ended 30th September 2008 is subject The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under assets in other UK listed investment companies including Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company does not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in companies that themselves may The Company is an investment company within the meaning invest more than 15% of their gross assets in UK listed of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is investment companies.
not a close company for taxation purposes.
Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of The Companys registration number is 3374850. increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys actual A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in gearing range investments expressed as a percentage of the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, and in the shareholders funds may fluctuate between 90% and 120%.
Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 7.
The use of derivatives is permitted with prior approval of the Board and within agreed limits.
Currency hedging transactions Objective are permitted up to 40% of the portfolio but only back into The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth primarily sterling.
In addition, sales of country specific index futures are from investing in equities quoted on the stockmarkets of Asia, permitted, limited to the aggregate value of stocks held in the excluding Japan.
The performance of the Company is relevant market.
measured against its benchmark index, the MSCI AC Asia Compliance with investment restrictions and guidelines is ex Japan Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms.
monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
These active exposure limits and Investment Policies and Risk Management restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests in a discretion.
portfolio of Asian stocks with an emphasis on capital growth rather than income, with the likely result that the level of Performance dividend will fluctuate from year to year.
In the year to 30th September 2009, the Company produced a Investment risks are managed by diversifying investment over total return to Ordinary shareholders of 41.2%, a diluted total a number of Asian companies.
The number of investments return on net assets of 34.8% and an undiluted total return on in the Company will normally range between 50 and 80.
This compares with the return on the Board seeks to manage the Companys risk relative to its Company's benchmark index of 41.3%.
At 30th September benchmark index by limiting the active portfolio exposures to 2009, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was the various countries and stocks covered by the benchmark 358.7 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages index and, in some cases, to specific stocks.
These active 5 to 7 includes a review of developments during the year.
exposure limits may be varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
Currently the maximum permitted active exposure 16 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends Performance relative to Benchmark Index Gross total return for the year amounted to 105.2 million Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 1999 2008: loss of 128.5 million and net total return after 160 deducting interest, management expenses, performance fees 150 and taxation amounted to 102.3 million 2008: loss of 140 130.7 million.
Distributable income for the year amounted to 2,477,000 2008: 2,737,000.
130 120 The Directors recommend a dividend of 1.50p per share 2008: 1.70p payable on 12th February 2010 to shareholders 110 on the register at the close of business on 8th January 2010.
90 No other dividends were paid in respect of the year.
The 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 revenue reserve after this transfer will amount to 513,000 JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share 2008: 443,000.
The Benchmark is represented by the orange horizontal line Source: Morningstar MSCI.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Performance against the Companys peers The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and The Board also monitors performance relative to a broad assess the performance of the Company.
The principal range of competitor funds.
KPIs are:- Performance attribution Performance against the benchmark index The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess This is the most important KPI by which the performance how the Company achieved its performance relative to its is judged.
benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various components Ten Year Performance such as asset allocation, gearing and stock selection.
Details of Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 1999 the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th September 400 2009 are given in the Investment Managers Report on page 6.
350 Discount to net asset value NAV 300 The Board has adopted a share repurchase policy that seeks 250 to address imbalances in the supply of and demand for the 200 Companys shares in the market and thereby reduce the 150 volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which 100 the Companys Ordinary shares trade.
The discount to NAV at 50 the start of the year was 12.6% and at the end it was 8.2%.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 The highest and the lowest discounts to NAV during the year JPMorgan Asian Ordinary share price were 12.6% and 6.9% respectively.
JPMorgan Asian diluted net asset value per Ordinary share Benchmark Source: Morningstar MSCI.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 17 Directors Report continued to such amount, rounded up to the nearest whole penny, have Discount Performance been determined as follows: 0 If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between -5 and including 1st April 2009 and 31st March 2010, 137 pence.
-10 If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between and including 1st April 2010 and 31st March 2012, 176 pence.
-15 If Subscription share rights are exercised on any day between -20 and including 1st April 2012 and 31st March 2014, 203 pence.
-25 Further details on the Subscription shares, including the 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 apportionments for capital gains tax purposes and how they JPMorgan Asian share price discount to diluted net asset value may be exercised, can be found on page 66 of this report and Source: J. P. Morgan on the Companys website at www.
Total expense ratio TER Principal Risks The TER is an expression of the Companys management fees and all other operating expenses excluding interest and With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a performance fees paid, as a percentage of the average of the risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
opening and closing net assets.
The TER for the year ended These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: 30th September 2009 was 0.77% 2008: 0.95%.
The Board Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of the Companys TER and its main expenses with those of its gearing, may lead to underperformance against the peers.
Companys benchmark index and peer companies, and may result in the Companys shares trading on a wider Share Capital discount.
The Board seeks to manage these risks by The Company has not repurchased any shares for cancellation diversification of investments through its investment during the year or since the year end.
A resolution to renew restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and the authority to repurchase shares will be put to shareholders reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors with timely and accurate management information, including performance data and attribution During the year the Company issued 452,920 Ordinary shares analyses, revenue estimates and shareholder analyses.
for a total consideration of 620,000 following the exercise of The Board monitors the implementation and results of the Subscription shares.
Since the year end a further 2,494,954 investment process with the investment managers, who Ordinary shares have been issued for a total consideration of attend all Board meetings, and reviews data which show 2,798,000 following the exercise of further Subscription statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Further details of the Companys Subscription shares The Manager employs the Companys gearing tactically, are set out below.
within a strategic range set by the Board.
The Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy each year.
Bonus Issue of Subscription Shares Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the On 4th February 2009 the Company issued Subscription shares future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents as a bonus issue to the ordinary shareholders on the basis of the potential loss that the Company might suffer through one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
holding investments in the face of negative market Each Subscription share confers the right but not the movements.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock obligation to subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has day during the period from 1st April 2009 until 31st March 2014, set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are after which the rights on the Subscription shares will lapse.
monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Board Future exercise prices, calculated at the close of business on monitors the implementation and results of the 2nd February 2009 and based on the Companys net asset investment process with the Manager.
value per share of 135.04 pence, plus a percentage premium 18 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an Future Developments investment trust, the Company must comply with Section The future development of the Company is much dependent 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in Section 842.
Details of the Companys approval are the light of economic and equity market developments.
given under Business of the Company above.
Were the The investment managers discuss the outlook in their report Company to breach Section 842, it might lose investment on pages 6 and 7. trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
Management of the Company The Section 842 qualification criteria are monitored by the Manager and the results reported to the Board each The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management month.
The Company must also comply with the UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares which can be terminated on six months notice in the event of are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing the Board giving notice as a result of poor investment Rules.
A breach of the Companies Act 2006 could result in performance: the notice period is 12 months for all other the Company and or the Directors being fined or the circumstances, in both cases without penalty.
If the Company subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the Listing Rules could result in the Companys shares being balance of remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
suspended from listing, which in turn would breach JPMAM is a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Section 842.
The Board relies on the services of its which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Secretary, JPMAM, and its professional advisers to ensure dealing and custodian services to the Company.
compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance In arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment best practice, including information on relations with strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance relative to the benchmark over various time periods, and the report on pages 24 to 27. quality of the service that the Company receives from JPMAM.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems or the Management Fee custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and With effect from 1st October 2006 JPMAM has been paid a fee monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Details of based on the Companys market capitalisation.
This fee uses how the Board monitors the services provided by the the average of the Companys closing middle market share Manager and its associates and the key elements designed price for the last five business days of the relevant month, to provide effective internal control are included with the calculated monthly and paid quarterly at a rate of 0.75% per Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance annum, based on the average of the preceding three month report on pages 26 and 27. end capitalisations.
Investments in funds on which JPMAM Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include charges a management fee are excluded from this calculation.
market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and In addition to the management fee, the Company reimburses other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further the costs of administering the Companys shareholders who details are disclosed in note 20 on pages 46 to 52. hold their shares through the JPMorgan Share Plan, ISA and Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax Pension Account.
legislation, including in the European Union, may adversely effect the Company.
The Manager makes Performance Fee recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend From 1st October 2006, the Manager has been eligible to and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice where receive a performance fee equal to 15% of any appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to political out-performance of the Companys audited undiluted NAV risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free total return over the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index return in movement of capital.
sterling terms with net dividends reinvested the Benchmark JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 19 Directors Report continued plus an out-performance hurdle of 1.5 percentage points the management arrangements in place to continue in Hurdle.
The performance fee has the following features: operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to The Hurdle is applied in all circumstances regardless of continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the whether out-performance or underperformance has accounts.
The performance fee is calculated on a cumulative basis.
Payment Policy Any underperformance that has occurred in previous years has It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all to be made up before any performance fee becomes payable.
business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
The performance fee is based on the audited undiluted In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on NAV total return per share as calculated in accordance which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to with the prevailing accounting policies.
No adjustment abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2009, the would be made to exclude the effect of any share Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2008: none.
Directors The amount of performance fee payable in any one year is capped at 0.75% of the average monthly total assets less The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the current liabilities of the Company for that year.
In order to year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys reach this cap, the Company would have to outperform the shares are shown below: Benchmark by 6.5 percentage points in any one year.
30th September 1st October Ordinary shares 2009 2008 Any performance fee earned in excess of the cap 0.75% will be carried forward and will either be paid or be James Long 14,293 12,103 available to be offset against any future underperformance.
Alun Evans 16,600 16,000 Ronald Gould 2,745 2,745 The performance fee is calculated annually by reference 1 James Strachan 4,209 to the average monthly total assets less current liabilities Andrew Sykes 25,000 25,000 of the Company with an estimate accrued monthly in the NAV and paid within three months of the year end.
Any earned but unpaid fees due to the 0.75% cap 30th September 1st October restriction are carried forward as a liability in the Subscription shares 2009 2008 Companys accounts.
James Long 2,559 Alun Evans 2,600 The total fees paid under the management and Ronald Gould 549 performance fee arrangements will not exceed 5% of the 1 James Strachan Companys net asset value in any one year.
Andrew Sykes 5,000 The results for the year to 30th September 2009 generated a The Company issued Subscription shares on 4th February 2009. negative performance fee for the year which is added to the 1 James Strachan was appointed to the Board on 10th August 2009. negative amount brought forward at the beginning of the year.
No fee is payable in the current year and no amount has been Since the year end, Mr Longs beneficial holding has increased included as a liability in the accounts.
A negative amount of by 285 Ordinary shares.
1.4 million is carried forward and must be offset against any In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, future out-performance before any performance fee is earned.
James Strachan, who was appointed a Director on 10th August 2009, offers himself for election.
James Long, having served as Going Concern a Director for a period of more than nine years, stands for The Directors believe that having considered the Companys re-election annually.
investment objective see page 16, risk management policies An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which see pages 46 to 52 capital management policies and indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain procedures see page 53 and the nature of the portfolio and liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
expenditure projections, that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable 20 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Disclosure of information to Auditors The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are Company at the time when this report was approved: contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no the Companies Act 2006. relevant audit information as defined in the Companies There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities Act 2006 of which the Company's auditors are unaware, in the Company: no special rights with regard to control and attached to securities: no agreements between holders of b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware agreements which the Company is party to that affect its of any relevant audit information and to establish that the control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Company's auditors are aware of that information.
the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of 418 2 of the Companies Act Independent Auditors 2006.
 LLP have expressed their willingness Section 992 Companies Act 2006 to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution to re-appoint them and authorise the Directors to The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be 992 Companies Act 2006. proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Capital Structure Annual General Meeting The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE front cover of this report.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your Voting Rights in the Companys shares stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial advisor Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. date of this report are given in note 15 to the Notice of AGM on Resolutions relating to the following items of special business page 58. will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory preemption rights resolutions 8 and 9 At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 16,250,210 Ordinary shares for cash up to an Shareholders Number of % aggregate nominal amount of 4,062,552 such amount being voting rights equivalent to 10% of the present issued ordinary share capital as at the last practicable date before the publication of this City of London Investment document.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Management Co. Ltd. 30,204,640 18.6 Notice of Meeting on page 56.
This authority will expire at the 1 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 21,094,725 13.0 conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2011 unless renewed 1,2 JPMorgan Chase Nominees 12,215,273 7.5 at a prior general meeting.
Lazard Asset Management 8,615,880 5.3 It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new Sarasin & Partners LLP 8,168,100 5.0 shares to participants purchasing shares through the Legal & General Investment JPMorgan savings products and also to other investors when Management Ltd. 6,364,023 3.9 the Directors consider that it is in the best interests of BAE System Pension Funds Investment shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices Management Ltd. 5,462,500 3.4 greater than the net asset value the NAV, they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative 1 Non-beneficial.
2 expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on Held on behalf of JPMAM ISA and Share Plan participants.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 21 Directors Report continued the value of the Companys assets, over a greater number of The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line on pages 56 and 57.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion with the Companys investment policies.
The Company of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices currently does not hold any shares in the capital of the below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the Company in Treasury.
NAV of the remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation resolution 10 iii Adoption of New Articles of Association resolution 11 The authorities to repurchase i up to 14.99% of the The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
Companys issued share capital, granted by shareholders at These incorporate amendments to the current articles of the 2009 AGM, and ii up to 14.99% of the Companys issued association to reflect the changes in company law brought Subscription shares, granted by shareholders at the General about by the Act which came into effect on 1st October 2009 Meeting of the Company held on 4th February 2009 will both and changes made to the Act in August 2009 to implement the expire on 3rd July 2010 unless renewed at the forthcoming EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK, as well as some AGM.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority minor technical or clarifying changes.
The principal changes in is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the the new articles of association proposed to be adopted at the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV 2009 AGM relate to shareholder meetings and resolutions, the enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
Companys constitution and share capital.
Resolution 10 gives the Company authority to buy back its own In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the market Act on company meetings by The Companies Shareholders as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK.
to a maximum of i 24,359,065 Ordinary shares, and ii The new articles incorporate amendments in relation to 4,422,927 Subscription shares, representing approximately meetings to ensure consistency with the Act as amended by 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Subscription shares respectively, as at 11th December 2009 Under the Act all provisions of the Companys memorandum, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of but most significantly the objects clause, are deemed to form this document.
The authority also sets minimum and part of the Companys articles from 1st October 2009.
possible for the objects clause to be removed or amended by If resolution 10 is passed at the AGM, Ordinary shares amending the articles by special resolution.
It is not necessary repurchased might not be cancelled but rather held as under the Act for a company to set out its objects.
The Act treasury shares and may subsequently be re-issued at a provides that, unless the articles state otherwise, a companys premium.
The Company does not have authority to re-issue objects will be unrestricted.
Ordinary shares from treasury at a discount to NAV, therefore One of the other key provisions of the memorandum which is any re-issue of Ordinary shares from treasury would be at a deemed to form part of the Companys articles from 1st premium to the prevailing NAV.
Any Subscription shares October 2009 is the restriction created by the existing purchased by the Company shall be cancelled and shall not be authorised share capital statement.
The Act removes the held in treasury for re-issue or resale.
As at 14th December requirement for a company to place limits on its authorised 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication share capital.
of this document, there were no warrants or options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, other than the By adopting the new articles which do not contain the objects 29,505,851 Subscription shares in issue each of which gives clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company the holder thereof the right to subscribe for one Ordinary will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be share which represent 18.2% of the Companys issued deemed to form part of the Companys articles under section Ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the 28 of the Act, from its articles.
For a more detailed explanation Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in full and the of these and other amendments please refer to the Appendix authority to purchase Subscription shares not exercised at all to this document on pages 59 to 62. then the Subscription shares would represent 21.4% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
22 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ from the date of this report up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE, being the place of the Annual General Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
Recommendation The Board considers that resolutions 8 and 11 are likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 63,132 Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.04% of the voting rights of the Company.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 15th December 2009 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
