Investment Managers Report Market Review In sharp contrast to last year, the Companys year to 30th September 2009 proved rewarding for investors in Asian equity markets.
Our benchmark index, the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan with net dividends reinvested in sterling terms, ended the period 41.3% higher.
It was a volatile year, with the last quarter of 2008 continuing to suffer from the fallout of the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the sub-prime crisis and the ongoing effects of global fide-leveraging.
Risk aversion remained high and, coupled with weakening economic data and earnings downgrades, led to equities in Asia being sold-off aggressively.
In India, the market was further weighed down by the Joshua Tay terrorist attacks in Mumbai.
Nevertheless, there was a strong bounce in late November 2008 due to the introduction of massive fiscal and monetary stimulus plans by governments across Asia.
In particular the announcement of Chinas RMB 4 trillion fiscal stimulus package, a move designed to help the fast-growing economy achieve a soft landing in the face of a rapidly deteriorating external environment, brought the region some comfort.
At the start of 2009, economic news flow became slightly more optimistic, following the move to quantitative easing in the US and bank re-capitalisation in the G7.
This led to a strong rally in March.
We increased the Companys gearing in the second quarter of 2009 as we gained comfort that markets were establishing an upwards Pauline Ng trend.
The real fuel in Asia remained interest rates.
They were cut dramatically in China and, thanks to the formal and informal pegs to the US dollar, much of Asia found itself facing monetary policy strongly reflationary in nature.
Chinese data steadily improved over the year, as measures to boost the property market began to take hold and loan growth continued at breakneck pace.
This was accompanied by recovering economic data, such as a rising Purchasing Manager Index, an indicator of the health of the manufacturing sector.
Subsequently, improving economic data and the delivery of the recovery, about which so much scepticism had been expressed in the West, finally fed through into an elevated level of optimism in the OECD.
Performance Review After a disappointing year for the Company to 30th September 2008, in both relative and absolute terms, the Companys portfolio performance improved significantly in the year to 30th September 2009, rising by 44.4% and outperforming the benchmark index by 3.1 percentage points.
Our decision to increase gearing in May 2009, based on our positive outlook on Asian equity markets, was a significant contributor to relative performance.
In addition, we were correctly positioned throughout the year in stocks that directly benefited from Chinas fiscal and monetary stimulus programmes.
We owned several Chinese property stocks such as Shimao Property and Soho China and a coal stock China Shenhua Energy that outperformed both the Chinese market and our benchmark index.
In addition, we benefited from avoiding stocks such as China Mobile and China Unicom, which registered disappointing performance over the year due to concerns over rising competition in the telecommunications sector.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 5 Investment Managers Report continued A decision to overweight Wilmar, a palm oil plantation stock, and Olam, a distributor of Performance attribution for the year agricultural commodities, also contributed to performance over the year.
These ended 30th September 2009 Singapore listed companies have their earnings linked to strong regional demand for Contributions to total returns agricultural related commodities.
Benchmark total return 41.3% The portfolios move to overweight Korean banks, such as KB Financial, also Stock selection 1.5% benefited performance.
After their sharp fall at the end of 2008, many of these Gearing cash 2.6% stocks were trading significantly below book value, and we took the opportunity to Currency effect -0.7% Dividends -0.3% build up positions in them.
We were rewarded when they re-rated in 2009 as credit markets stabilized.
Investment Manager contribution 3.1% On the negative side, stock selection in India over the full year was disappointing.
Portfolio total return 44.4% We were too bearish on this market after the credit crunch in the fourth quarter of Management fees 2008.
We believed that the earnings outlook of Indian corporates would remain other expenses -1.0% muted, especially given the limited scope for fiscal stimulus in India due to the high Exercise of budget deficit compared to China.
As a result, the Indian stocks in the portfolio were Subscription shares -0.2% too defensive in nature, and did not benefit from the full upside in the Indian market, Other effects -1.2% especially after the favourable election outcome in May 2009.
Key detractors Undiluted return on net assets 43.2% included our holding in a utility company, Suzlon Energy, and banking stock ICICI Subscription share Bank, where we missed out on much of the performance upside, given our initial dilution -8.4% cautious view on the banks ability to grow earnings this year.
Structural effects -8.4% We continue to adopt a bottom-up stock picking approach, and aim to buy stocks Diluted return on net assets 34.8% that deliver sustainable growth and returns to shareholders at a reasonable price.
Return to Ordinary shareholders 41.2% The principal parameters we use to measure risk are earnings volatility, business Unit return to shareholders 47.3% cycles, cashflow and solvency, management quality, and transparency not Source: FactSet, JPMAM and Morningstar.
necessarily in order of importance.
We feel that our results for 2009 are satisfactory, All figures are on a total return basis.
given the enormous volatility over the financial year, but know we can do much Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its better and hope to be able to return to the performance returns generated in 2007, benchmark index.
when market conditions return to some normality.
The FactSet attribution system accounts for income on a received on the ex-dividend date basis whereas Morningstar calculates the Companys NAV Total Outlook Return using the actual dividend s paid by the Company on the ex-dividend date.
A Unit comprises 5 Ordinary shares and 1 Looking ahead to 2010, low OECD growth is likely to keep interest rates at Subscription share.
This is good news for Asia although there is an A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on pages 63 and 64. inevitable asset price inflation risk associated with it.
Having just witnessed the bursting of a sizable bubble, policymakers in China, Hong Kong and Singapore in particular are not going to be relaxed about seeing another inflate so quickly.
Looking ahead, markets will be seeking to determine what levels of global demand are sustainable in 2010.
What has been achieved so far has come only with exceptional liquidity provisions and with government help in the form of stimulus.
Monetary policy will gradually normalise and stimulus has to be paid for, so rising rates and rising taxes seem inevitable at some stage.
Individual savings continue to be rebuilt and commodity prices could add further drag to the recovery.
How far out the reversal in policy will occur is difficult to judge.
In these fears lies the basis of the worry about economies weakening again towards the end of next year.
That said, we believe Asian economies will weather another downturn much better than the rest of the world, due to their high cash savings at both corporate and government levels.
6 | JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 After the strong move in 2009, valuations in Asia have moved from cheap to average.
We expect that earnings will be increasingly important in driving Asian equities upwards rather than further re-rating of valuation multiples.
For now, in Asia, there are three positives to sustain further progress: abnormally low interest rates: an oil price which we believe will stay in a US Dollar 60-80 range and, finally, a weak US Dollar.
Without any major negative geopolitical events, China and India should continue to do well, even during a period in which interest rates start to rise.
In the shorter term, we believe planned Indonesian infrastructure investment will drive further improvements in this economy.
J Jo os sh hu ua a T Ta ay y P Pa au ulliin ne e N Ng g Investment Managers 15th December 2009 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
