Investment Managers Report What has happened?
How different the world would seem if you travelled, out of reach of news media and share price information, across some huge desert, or better, on an ocean, only putting in to port once a year on the 1st July.
That day, the first one after the end of your Companys financial year, would afford the opportunity to update your financial statements and assess what had changed.
Very little, might be your first response this time.
It would seem a disappointing year for emerging markets, with the index down by 13.1%, and your Companys portfolio down by 13.3%, almost the same.
On the other hand, since the investment managers reports have repeatedly mentioned the Austin Forey improbability that the returns of 2002-2007 could be sustained, you might not be surprised.
Most of all, you might wonder what all the fuss has been about.
And yet for those in the thick of it, and frankly for any customer of any financial organisation, it has been an extraordinary twelve months.
Only massive state intervention preserved public confidence in financial systems, and that only by a slim margin and at the eleventh hour.
For those of us versed in a decade of economic crises in the developing world, the patterns that unfolded in Western economies were not unfamiliar, though no less disconcerting for that.
For those more used to the US and Europe, this was the first serious financial crisis for almost twenty years and a shocking experience.
Shareholders of this Company will be only too aware that its net asset value per share, 470p at the beginning of this financial year in July 2008, reached 257p towards the end of October 2008, with the share price touching 235p at the same time.
The assets we manage on your behalf fell by almost half in a period of six weeks, but over the last ten months have slowly crawled back up to a level approaching that from which we started.
The details of what happened need no repeating here: instead, it may be helpful to analyse briefly how emerging markets were affected by the crisis and what implications it has for the future.
There are perhaps three salient points to make: first, this was not an emerging market crisis, but a developed world credit problem that turned rapidly into a failure of wholesale credit markets.
Emerging markets as a whole entered this crisis as net lenders to the developed world, in sharp contrast to the nineties when they relied on borrowing from developed nations to fund their growth.
With relatively strong government finances and banking systems more focused on conventional domestic lending, many emerging countries experienced a sharp slowdown, particularly in external trade, but not a serious banking crisis.
There have been relatively few corporate insolvencies and certainly nothing like what was seen in the Asian crisis of 1997-98.
While the withdrawal of foreign investment capital meant that equity markets fell in a very similar way to the developed world the so-called contagion effect, the underlying economic fundamentals were not hugely changed and allowed a much faster recovery in share prices.
Only Eastern Europe, where foreign currency debts greatly increased the vulnerability of the corporate sector, has experienced a real banking crisis and therefore a downturn more similar to those seen in previous emerging market crises.
4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Second, the response to the crisis in the developed world has been very different to Performance attribution for the that seen in emerging markets which experienced similar bank-led crises in recent year ended 30th June 2009 times.
While emerging markets have typically, with the encouragement of developed %% world agencies, dealt with crises through a combination of currency devaluation and Contributions to Total Returns austerity sharp domestic recessions, such harsh medicine is intolerable and perhaps impossible in the developed world except when spread over long timeframes: in the Benchmark Total Return 13.1 short term great efforts have been made to prevent a contraction in the money Asset Allocation 0.6 supply.
Interest rates have gone down, not up, and seem likely to remain low for Stock Selection 2.4 some time.
In the emerging world, the immediate response to this external threat to Gearing Cash 2.6 economic growth has been stimulus programmes directed at domestic investment, Currency 0.1 financed with relative ease from government funds.
China has led the way in this.
Investment Manager Contribution 0.7 So in the short term, most emerging countries are doing relatively well.
Economic Portfolio Total Return 12.4 growth rates will remain well above those of the developed world in the next few years, though we will need to watch carefully for the risk that state-directed Management Fees investment may bring about over-capacity and declining returns at some point in the Other Expenses 1.3 future.
Before that happens, the risk of an asset bubble, especially in Asia, should not VAT Recovery 0.3 be overlooked.
Residual 0.1 Other Effects 0.9 Third, the long term dynamic at work in emerging markets remains largely Net Asset Value Return 13.3 unchanged.
Protectionism and closed markets still represent the greatest threat to the development of emerging economies and their companies: but it is very hard to Impact of change in Discount 0.2 envisage a complete unpicking of the world of integrated production, distribution and consumption that binds the developed world and the developing world Share Price Total Return 13.1 together.
We expect long term trends in economic development to continue along Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
All figures are relatively well-mapped lines.
The same challenges remain, but for investors like on a total return basis.
ourselves, interested above all in compounding effects sustained over long periods, Performance attribution analyses how where else would one rather be working to invest capital?
the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
The residual arises principally from We changed some 20% of the portfolio this year, and details of our changes can be timing differences in the treatment of seen on page 13.
Investors should understand that we do not start each year with a income flows.
The Xamin attribution budget for transaction volumes: nor do we go looking for reasons to change the system accounts for income on a portfolio, because one cannot take a long term approach by making changes every received on the ex-dividend date basis day.
So instead we prefer that decisions present themselves to us when the returns whereas Morningstar calculates the Companys NAV Total Return using the on offer seem wholly disproportionate: every investment decision comes down to a actual dividends paid by the Company judgement about the return on todays price that the market is offering us in the on the ex-dividend date.
future and the risks that we assume to get that return.
A glossary of terms and definitions is Over the last year the pricing of some of those risks has been subject to huge provided on page 64. fluctuations.
In the second half of 2008, the economic crisis created extreme uncertainty and fear, so liquidity which meant keeping your options open, having the freedom to change your mind and move your money easily became very highly priced: investors would accept close to zero returns very low interest rates in exchange for immediate liquidity with a reliable counterparty e. g. US government treasury bills.
Conversely, very low prices were assigned to illiquid assets, including the shares of small companies, and therefore high prospective returns were offered to those able to hold them.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 Investment Managers Report continued At the level of individual companies, markets attitudes to liquidity were expressed through a big divergence in valuations.
On the one hand, companies with the financial freedom to act and make decisions, able to fund their operations internally, with little or no debt, outperformed significantly as markets fell.
Businesses which lacked this financial freedom, or worse, had significant debts that needed to be either refinanced or repaid, found themselves in the opposite position.
Because banks could no longer be relied on to roll over debt facilities, some companies found themselves facing insolvency because of a lack of liquidity and their share prices were marked down sharply, in some cases assuming imminent bankruptcy.
In the year that has passed the investment opportunity lay in avoiding such stocks at all costs in the first half of the year: but from March onwards the pricing of risk returned towards a normal level and the stocks which had performed worst during the sell-off saw their shares prices rebound most strongly.
Our investment decisions during the year can be most easily understood against this simple background.
Broadly speaking, we made four kinds of decisions, all of which relate to the pricing of risk during the year: we sold several investments, especially in the real estate sector, which we believed presented a very real risk of permanent loss of value.
This could be through outright insolvency though in fact this outcome has been averted in almost all cases but could also be through the requirement to recapitalise the business, which effectively obliges shareholders to pay twice over for the same thing.
Over the last few months these have looked like poor decisions, though one should take into account the use we made of the proceeds too.
We added to businesses which were being penalised by the market for the same issues of financial risk, but where in our view the risks could be easily resolved by the passage of time and would then be revalued upwards.
Most but not all of these purchases were in the financial sector itself: we added to the portfolios investments in financial services in India, China, Mexico, Russia and elsewhere.
Thirdly, we reduced or sold outright other stocks where the potential for future returns appeared to be diminishing as businesses mature and slow down.
And fourth, we increased or introduced new investments that we regard as long term holdings for the portfolio.
These tend to have the following characteristics: we expect them to generate good returns on capital in the future: they have an opportunity to reinvest their profits which are large enough to permit many years of growth ahead of them: they have strong competitive positions.
Stocks like this usually trade at valuations which reflect their qualities, but in the crisis there were opportunities to buy them when this was not the case.
The results of our policy this year have been mixed and we struggled to match the benchmark return.
Analysis shows that our stock selection was somewhat disappointing, especially in a couple of markets.
Perhaps not surprisingly, given the severity of market falls, cash was a positive contributor to relative returns.
By spending much of the cash after markets had fallen, we managed to avoid handing back most of this positive effect as markets recovered.
Overall, however, we found this a challenging year.
As we continue into the current year, we have two clear priorities: to take adequate risk and to refresh the portfolio to ensure that our ideas produce the best pay-off for shareholders.
6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 What happens next?
The typical evolution of a market recovery divides into several phases and we do not expect this one to be different.
First, fear slowly abates and valuation rises towards previous norms.
Second, valuations do not stop but go on to look expensive.
Third, corporate profits come out ahead of expectations and valuations in fact turn out to be normal after all.
Fourth, valuations rise again and the market really does become over-valued.
Fifth, company profits begin to undershoot expectations but nobody cares, such is the momentum in share prices and the fear of being left behind.
Sixth, reality strikes and it is all over.
The markets we invest in are not all identically placed, but most of them are in the second phase and some are moving into the third: the first phase of the normalisation of valuations has been largely completed in the space of a few months.
If this gives a broad market context for our future decisions, it is worth repeating that individual companies are really what interest us the most.
Given the convergence of valuations that we have seen, differentiated profit performance seems likely to be a very significant factor in determining stock performance in the next few years.
Accordingly, our research effort continues to look above all for companies which can persistently create value for shareholders, especially by reinvesting and growing their businesses.
We particularly like companies able to grow their share of a market that is itself growing.
Although this tends to focus the mind on Asia above all, where general economic growth rates are highest, the reality of what we do is much more specific than that.
Accordingly, the relevance of broad generalisations about markets and sectors is limited: we can be and are as interested in a supermarket retailer in China as in a micro-lender in Latin America: one of the best investment opportunities we came across in the last twelve months was in Russia.
For all the many ways that exist of talking about, measuring, categorising and appraising the practice of investment, we strive to keep it as simple as possible: we look for businesses where we can be confident that they will be worth a lot more in the future than they are in the present, and we try to combine them in a diversified portfolio.
To do this, we will keep deploying the abilities of our people, aiming to produce good returns for this portfolio, in the same way that we have in the past.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 30th September 2009 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
