Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the 30th June 2009. number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and Business Review 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong Business of the Company emerging markets equity team.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment It should be noted that historically, emerging market trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and companies and investments in their shares have shown Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30th June 2008. greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently corporate governance risks which are not typically associated conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
The with more developed markets and economies.
Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of Investment Restrictions and Guidelines the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing Approval for the year ended 30th June 2008 is subject to various investment limits and restrictions: review should there be any subsequent enquiry under As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of The Company is an investment company within the meaning of acquisition.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a its total assets in any one individual stock excluding close company for taxation purposes.
investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the invested in any one region.
Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 7.
No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys Objective assets before deducting borrowings may be invested The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from in i securities not listed on any recognised investment emerging markets worldwide.
exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity Investment Policies and Risk Management capital including any capital having an element of equity In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to of any one listed company other than an investment trust manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, it is not listed.
where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and companies that themselves may invest more than 15% maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to The Company does not normally enter into derivative produce any particular level of dividend and it will only pay transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
dividends to the extent necessary to maintain investment trust These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any status.
The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under normal market conditions.
18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 30th June 2009, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 1999 return to shareholders of 13.1% and a total return on net 450 assets of 13.3%.
This compares with the return on the 400 Companys benchmark index of 13.1%.
At 30th June 2009, the 350 value of the Companys investment portfolio including liquidity 300 fund holdings was 445 million.
The Investment Managers 250 Report on pages 4 to 7 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity 200 within the Companys portfolio.
150 100 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 50 Gross loss for the year amounted to 62.2 million 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2008: gain 17.4 million and net total loss after deducting Source: Morningstar Datastream.
interest, administration expenses and taxation amounted to JPMorgan Emerging Markets Share price.
Distributable income for JPMorgan Emerging Markets Net asset value.
the year amounted to 4.9 million 2008: 2.9 million.
Benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index in Sterling terms.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.2p per share Performance against the Companys peers payable on 6th November 2009 to holders on the register at The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative the close of business on 9th October 2009.
This distribution will to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the amount to 3.5 million.
The revenue reserve after transfer of performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
the final dividend will amount to 2.5 million.
Performance attribution Key Performance Indicators KPIs The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess how the Company achieved its performance relative assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on Performance against the benchmark index the Companys relative performance of the various This is the most important KPI by which performance is components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 30th June 2009 are given in the Investment Managers Performance Relative to Benchmark Index Report on page 5.
Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 1999 Discount to net asset value NAV 160 The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to 150 address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce 140 the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at 130 which the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in 120 the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2009, the shares traded 110 between a discount of 14.5% and a premium of 3.0%.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Share price.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Net asset value.
Benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index in sterling terms represented by the horizontal line.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Directors Report continued if exercised between 1st August 2009 and 31st July 2010, Discount Performance 422 pence: 0 if exercised between 1st August 2010 and 31st July 2012, 5 460 pence: and 10 if exercised between 1st August 2012 and 31st July 2014, 15 543 pence: 20 For the purposes of UK taxation, the issue of Subscription shares is treated as a reorganisation of the Companys share 25 capital.
Whereas such reorganisations do not trigger a 30 chargeable disposal for the purposes of the taxation of capital 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 gains, they do require shareholders to reallocate the base costs Source: Datastream month end data.
of their Ordinary shares between Ordinary shares and JPMorgan Emerging Markets Discount.
Subscription shares received under the Bonus Issue.
At the close of business on 11th June 2009 the middle market prices Total expense ratio TER of the Companys Ordinary shares and Subscription shares The TER is an expression of the Companys management were as follows: fees and all other operating expenses, excluding interest and VAT recoverable, expressed as a percentage of the Ordinary shares 392p average of the opening and closing net assets.
The TER for Subscription shares 57p the year ended 30th June 2009 was 1.05% 2008: 1.25%.
Accordingly, an individual investor who, on 10th June 2009, The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a held five Ordinary shares or a multiple thereof would have comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses received a bonus issue of one Subscription share or the with those of its peers.
relevant multiple thereof and would apportion the base cost of Share Capital such holding 97.17% to the five Ordinary shares and 2.83% to The Company has the authority both to repurchase shares in the Subscription share.
the market for cancellation and to issue new shares for cash.
Principal Risks The Company did not issue or repurchase any shares for With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up cancellation during the year.
However, Special Resolutions to a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
renew the authorities to issue and repurchase shares will be put These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate The Company does not currently hold any shares in Treasury investment strategy, for example asset allocation, the level and does not have authority to reissue shares from Treasury at of gearing or the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to a discount to NAV.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, resulting in the Companys Subscription Shares shares trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages Following the passing of the Special Resolution proposed at the these risks by diversification of investments and through Companys General Meeting held on 10th June 2009, the a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription shares on 11th June monitored and reported on by the Manager.
JPMorgan 2009 as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM provides the one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Directors with timely and accurate management Each Subscription share confers the right but not the information, including performance data and attribution obligation to subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and day during the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the both dates inclusive when the rights under the Subscription implementation and results of the investment process with shares will lapse.
The conversion prices of the Subscription the Investment Manager, who attends all Board meetings, shares, calculated as at the close of business on 9th June 2009 and reviews data which show statistical measures of the and based on the Companys net asset value of 417.3 pence, per Companys risk profile.
share are as follows: 20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Political and Economic: Administrative risks, such as the Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board departure of the investment manager or several members monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its of the investment management team could result in a associates and the key elements designed to provide short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The effective internal control are included within the Internal Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an Control section of the Corporate Governance report on event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and pages 28 and 29. the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount details are disclosed in note 22 on pages 48 to 53. relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount Future Developments policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the Clearly the future development of the Company is much Companys broker to follow.
dependent upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the light of economic and equity market Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board developments in the countries in which it invests.
The holds regular meetings with senior representatives of Investment Manager discusses the outlook in his report on JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager pages 4 and 7. continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its investment trusts business through the provision Management of the Company of significant resources.
The Manager and Secretary, JPMAM, is employed under a Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an contract which is subject to twelve months notice of investment trust, the Company must comply with Section termination unless notice is given as a result of poor 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section investment performance, in which case the contract can be 842.
Details of the Companys approval are given under terminated on six months notice.
If the Company wishes to Business of the Company above.
Were the Company to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of breach Section 842, it might lose investment trust status remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank 842 qualification criteria are continually monitored by which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
dealing and custodian services to the Company.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and Companies Act 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment of London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In of the Companies Act could result in the Company and or arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long in the Companys shares being suspended from listing term, and the quality of support that the Company receives which in turn would breach Section 842.
The Board relies from JPMAM.
on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Management and Performance Fees Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
The fee is of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which best practice, including information on relations with JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance therefore attract no fee.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 21 Directors Report continued In addition the Manager receives a performance fee equivalent Going Concern to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys net asset The Directors believe that having considered the Companys value NAV per share on a total return basis over the investment objective see page 18, risk management policies Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free see page 48, capital management policies and procedures Index in sterling terms on a total return basis over the see page 54, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure Companys financial year.
The performance fee is calculated at projections, the Company has adequate resources, an the end of the Companys financial year and charged to its appropriate financial structure and suitable management capital account in the annual financial statements.
However, arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for an estimate is accrued on a monthly basis and reflected in the the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that Companys published NAV per share.
there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: Payment Policy Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all underperformance in future years: and that which cannot business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year abide by those terms.
As at 30th June 2009, the Company had is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total no outstanding trade creditors 2008: none.
assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, Directors the non-offsetable fees earned in that year are accrued but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a The Directors of the Company at the end of the year, together positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay with their beneficial interests in the Companys share capital, to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year are given below: and those accrued from previous years, subject to the 1st July restriction below.
30th June 2009 2008 The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one Ordinary Subscription Ordinary 1 year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly Directors Shares Shares Shares total assets less current liabilities for the year.
David Gamble 3,781 756 3,781 The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 840 4,203 earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year 2 Nigel Kenny when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, 3 Percy Mistry these fees are capable of being absorbed by any Valentine Powell 11,344 32,688 11,344 underperformance in a subsequent year.
Roy Reynolds 17,000 3,400 17,000 The performance fee calculation restarts at the end of a Alan Saunders 5,000 1,000 5,000 period when outperformance of the benchmark has been 1 achieved and a performance fee earned.
Or as at date of appointment.
2 Appointed as a Director on 1st September 2008 3 At 30th June 2009 the cumulative performance fee is negative Appointed as a Director on 1st January 2009 700,000 2008: 1,025,000, which will be carried forward Since the year end, Valentine Powell and Roy Reynolds have and offset by future outperformance.
acquired 19,580 and 12,000 Subscription shares respectively.
22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Capital Structure Director retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting will The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside be Anatole Kaletsky.
Having been appointed since the last AGM, front cover of this report.
Percy Mistry must stand for election.
Both Directors, being Voting Rights in the Companys shares eligible, offer themselves for re-election election.
The Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Nomination Committee, having considered their qualifications, date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Meeting performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, on page 59. confirms that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the Board Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights recommends to shareholders that they be re-elected elected.
At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: The Chairman and Valentine Powell will retire from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Alan Saunders will Number of succeed the Chairman, Nigel Kenny will become Chairman of voting the Audit Committee and David Gamble, Senior  rights% Director.
Lazard Asset Management LLC 20,091,711 18.2 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Sarasin & Partners LLP 9,227,823 8.4 indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain 1,2 Chase Nominees 8,569,069 7.8 liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no City of London Investment cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Management Company 7,076,607 6.4 Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.5 Disclosure of information to Auditors Legal & General Management 4,533,336 4.1 In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM ISA and Share Plan participants.
Company at the time when this report was approved: 2 Non-beneficial.
a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of audit information as defined in the Companies Act of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought the Companies Act 2006. to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that in the Company: no special rights with regard to control information.
attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its accordance with the provision of Section 418 2 of the control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Companies Act 2006. the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section 992 Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 23 Directors Report continued Independent Auditors Company held on 10th June June 2009 will expire on 5th May 2010 and 9th December 2010 respectively unless renewed at  LLP have expressed their willingness the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors consider that the renewing to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 9 gives the Company authority to buy back its own Annual General Meeting issued Ordinary shares and Subscription shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action to a maximum of i 16,541,747 Ordinary shares, and ii you should take, you should seek your own personal financial 3,299,545 Subscription shares, representing approximately advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares and issued financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Subscription shares respectively, as at 29th September 2009 Markets Act 2000. being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Resolutions relating to the following items of special business document.
The authority also sets minimum and maximum will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting prices.
AGM : If resolution 9 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may purchase pre-emption rights resolutions 7 and 8 pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
issue up to 5,517,594 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an As at 29th September 2009 being the latest practicable date aggregate nominal amount of 1,379,398 such amount being prior to the publication of this document, there were no equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital warrants or options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date Company, other than the 22,011,642 Subscription shares in before the publication of this document.
The full text of the issue each of which gives the holder thereof the right to resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 57.
This subscribe for one new Ordinary share which represent 19.95% authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
If the authority Company in 2010 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
to purchase the Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new full and the authority to purchase Subscription shares not shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing exercised at all then the Subscription shares would represent shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to 23.46% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made on pages 57 and 58.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the administrative expenses, other than the management fee NAV of the remaining shares as and when market conditions which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a are appropriate.
Under the Act, this authority may remain in greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for place for five years, but is the Boards intention to seek renewal investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
of the authority at each AGM.
The Company currently does not hold any shares in the capital iii Adoption of New Articles of Association resolution 10 of the Company in Treasury.
The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation These incorporate amendments to the current articles of resolution 9 association to reflect the changes in company law brought The authority to repurchase i up to 14.99% of the Companys about by the Act which come into effect on 1st October 2009 issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2008 AGM, and changes made to the Act in August 2009 to implement the and ii up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Subscription EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK, as well as some shares, granted by shareholders at the General Meeting of the minor technical or clarifying changes.
24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The principal changes in the new articles of association A copy of the current articles of association and the proposed proposed to be adopted at the 2009 AGM relate to shareholder new articles of association that reflect these amendments will meetings and resolutions, the Companys constitution and be available for inspection during normal business hours share capital.
Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the EC2Y 9AQ up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be Act on company meetings by The Companies Shareholders available at The Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE, Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights Regulations being the place of the AGM, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive in the UK.
The new articles incorporate amendments in relation to meetings to ensure consistency with the Act as amended by Recommendation the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
The Board considers that resolutions 7 to 10 are likely to Under the Act all provisions of the Companys memorandum, promote the success of the Company and are in the best but most significantly the objects clause, are deemed to form interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The part of the Companys articles from 1st October 2009.
It is Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of possible for the objects clause to be removed or amended by the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own amending the articles by special resolution.
It is not necessary beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 41,328 under the Act for a company to set out its objects.
The Act Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.04% of the provides that, unless the articles state otherwise, a companys voting rights of the Company.
One of the other key provisions of the memorandum which is deemed to form part of the Companys articles from 1st October By order of the Board 2009 is the restriction created by the existing authorised share Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of capital statement.
The Act removes the requirement for a JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, company to place limits on its authorised share capital.
Secretary 30th September 2009 By adopting the new Articles which do not contain the objects clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be deemed to form part of the Companys articles under section 28 of the Act, from its articles.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments please refer to the Appendix to this document on pages 60 to 63.
