Investment Managers Report European Stock Markets While hyperboles should seldom be used, it is fair to say that the last twelve months have been extraordinary, with financial textbooks rewritten by governments and central banks alike.
Whether the near collapse of the financial system was caused by the US governments decision to allow Lehman Brothers to fail in September 2008 or whether its failure accelerated the inevitable will never be known, but what is sure, with the benefit of hindsight, is that it unleashed risk aversion on a scale perhaps not seen since the Great Depression.
Jim Campbell As savers withdrew their deposits from banks and as financial institutions refused to lend to each other, the entire global banking system ground to a halt.
The speed and synchronization with which the world economy slowed was truly remarkable and a testament to the interdependence of global economies.
Central banks responded by lowering rates practically to zero all over the world.
Governments responded by injecting massive amounts of capital into banks and insurance companies alike.
Moreover, many governments went further by announcing huge public spending programmes as well as quantitative easing, thereby increasing substantially the money supply.
Government budget deficits in many countries such as the United States and United Kingdom are running at record levels.
Francesco Conte As banks virtually stopped lending, consumers swiftly reduced their spending and Performance attribution for the year to economic growth slowed sharply to become negative in the final quarter of 2009.
31st March 2009 As a consequence stock markets fell dramatically.
In the year to 31st March 2009, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index fell by 31.1 per cent.
At times of such financial Contributions to Total Returns strain investors become risk averse and as a result smaller companies suffered Benchmark total return -38.7% more.
The HSBC Smaller European Companies ex UK Index produced a total Asset allocation 0.0% return of -38.7 per cent.
Through our relatively cautious stance, the portfolio Stock selection 3.8% managed to mitigate some of the losses: the Companys net asset value total return Gearing cash effect 5.2% was -28.9 per cent.
Currency 0.4% Investment Manager contribution 9.4% Typically, the portfolios strategy is to invest in either growth stocks companies growing faster than GDP or value stocks stocks that are on average cheaper than Portfolio total return -29.3% the market.
Over time both these investment styles are proven to work, although Management Fees not necessarily at the same time.
Very unusually in the twelve months to March, other Expenses -1.1% neither of these strategies was successful as risk aversion led investors into highly VAT Recovery 0.7% Share buy backs into defensive sectors such as food, pharmaceuticals and telecommunications which are Treasury 0.5% less dependent on economic growth.
Share Buy-Back Issuance 0.0% Residual 0.3% Style factor performance 12 months to 31st March 2009 Other Effects 0.4% Higher profitability 6.8% Net Asset Value Total Return -28.9% Impact of decrease increase Higher Price Momentum 0.3% in discount -3.5% Share Price Total Return -32.4% Higher Growth -3.2% Source: Xamin JPMAM and Fundamental Data.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Higher Estimate Momentum -5.3% Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
The Residual arises principally from timing differences in Cheap Valuation -6.8% the treatment of income flows.
The Xamin attribution system accounts for income on a Higher Risk -10.2% received on the ex-dividend date basis whereas Fundamental Data calculates the Companys NAV Total Return using the actual dividend s paid by the Company on Spread of returns between best and worst quintile for each factor.
Source: Citigroup the ex-dividend date.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 55.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 5 Investment Managers Report continued Style factor performance long term Cheap Valuation 9.9% Higher Estimate Momentum 7.1% Higher Price Momentum 5.7% Higher profitability 5.2% Higher Growth -1.7% Higher Risk -1.7% Spread of returns between best and worst quintile for each factor.
Source: Citigroup From 1990 to March 2009.
Investment Process The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth from a portfolio of quoted smaller companies in Europe, excluding the United Kingdom.
The investment universe is defined at the time of purchase by the countries and market capitalisation range of the constituents of the benchmark index which, at the end of March 2009, consisted of 1,000 companies with a market value of between 25m and 1.6bn across 15 countries.
The investment process is driven by bottom-up stock selection, focusing on a combination of growth companies with strong operational momentum and value companies with a catalyst for rerating.
The large universe of potential investments is screened using a proprietary multi-factor model to the results of which we apply extensive fundamental analysis.
The portfolio is constructed within a framework where risk is managed in terms of investment style factors relative to the benchmark index.
Investments are sold when there is a fundamental negative change in business prospects, the valuation is regarded as excessive or the market capitalisation has outgrown significantly the benchmark index.
The policy is not to hedge the currency exposure of the portfolios assets.
With the Boards consent the gearing range within which the Investment Managers may operate was broadened from 10 per cent cash to 20 per cent gearing, to a new range of 20 per cent cash to 20 per cent gearing.
Portfolio Performance The biggest contributor to performance this year was our cautious approach which led us to run with high cash levels that reached a maximum of 20 per cent in the period following the Lehman collapse.
Good performance came from stocks that were generally not reliant on strong GDP growth for success.
Successful stock selection in this area included Ansaldo Sts in Italy, a manufacturer of rail signalling equipment, Recordati, an Italian pharmaceutical company, Gemalto, the French global leader in the manufacture of smart cards, Scor, the French reinsurance group and Galenica a wholesale pharmaceutical distributor and drug manufacturer in Switzerland.
The biggest negative contributors to performance were companies generally more cyclically exposed and included Maire Tecnimont, an Italian manufacturer of petrochemical plants which was derated as the oil price fell: Laboratorios Almiral, a Spanish drug company which fell following a drug failure in phase three trials: Sydbank, a Danish bank: Tieto, a Finnish IT services company which fell as IT budgets suffered: and Altran Technologies, a French research and development outsourcing company which suffered as companies cut research and development budgets.
6 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Portfolio Positioning The number of core small cap holdings remained relatively concentrated, ending the year at 48 compared with 45 at the start.
In addition, given that over time micro caps tend to outperform and we are finding an increasing number of attractive investment opportunities in this area, we have increased our investments in micro caps from 10 per cent of the assets to 16 per cent.
As we went into the year we had done much to reduce our cyclical exposure in the construction and engineering sectors.
We continued to reduce cyclical exposure throughout the year as economic newsflow continued to worsen.
However, in late February and early March 2009 we believed that expectations for defensive companies were ahead of the market and they started to disappoint.
Two such companies that we held at the time were Remy Cointreau, the French manufacturer of premium liqueurs, and Barry Callebut, the leading producer of wholesale chocolate both of which disappointed in the fourth quarter earnings announcements.
At the same time, expectations of more cyclically exposed companies had fallen to such low levels that they began to report improved order intakes, albeit from very low levels.
Therefore we began selectively to buy back economically sensitive stocks in the latter weeks of the year.
Substantial disposals in the year included stocks that had performed well such as Ansaldo Sts, Crucell and Gemalto on valuation, defensive stocks such as Galenica and Lottomatica on disappointing earnings and Trevi, a long time favourite, on slowing momentum in the construction industry.
We used the opportunity of the market derating to buy some high quality growth companies on cheap valuations such as hearing aid companies Sonova in Switzerland and William Demant in Denmark as well as French nursing home operator Orpea.
Amongst more cyclically sensitive companies which we bought at the end of the year were Credito Emiliano, an Italian bank, Autogrill, the Italian world leader in motorway and airport restaurants, French advertising agency Havas, French oil services provider Groupe Bourbon and French oil and gas exploration company Maurel et Prom.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 7 Investment Managers Report continued Industrial exposure Ten largest active positions March 2009 Ten largest active positions March 2008 Healthy Care Equip.
10.1 General Financial Support Services 8.2 8.7 Support Services 6.4 Food Producers 8.0 Nonlife Insurance 6.3 General Industrials 2.7 Pharma.
3.5 General Financial Industrial Engineering -8.0 Real Estate -6.3 -4.5 -4.4 Elec.
Chemicals -3.0 Construction & Materials -2.8 Oil & Gas Producers Real Estate -2.7 Elec.
-2.8 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management, Factset, HSBC.
The Company ended the year overweight in France, Italy and the Netherlands.
As bottom up investors we do not place much importance on where a company is incorporated but place much more importance on where it conducts its business.
Most of the companies we invest in, whether luxury goods manufacturers, hearing aid producers, oil service companies or motorway restaurants, to mention but a few, tend to operate on a global scale and are not particularly dependent on their domestic markets.
Country exposure Ten largest active positions March 2009 Ten largest active positions March 2008 France 10.1 Netherlands 8.8 Netherlands 7.6 Spain 4.6 Italy 4.5 Italy 3.8 Germany -6.4 Switzerland 3.1 Norway -4.9 Finland 1.7 -4.1 1.0 Switzerland France -7.8 Portugal -2.8 Germany -2.3 -5.1 Spain Norway -2.3 -3.3 Belgium Greece -1.0 Finland Sweden -2.6 Source: JPMorgan Asset Management, Factset 8 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Outlook As we write the market has continued to rally, with previously out of favour sectors such as banks, industrials, temporary employment and commodities leading the market.
The most important question is whether this is a bear market rally or a turning point.
Unfortunately we will not know for certain until later this summer whether the second quarter represents a mere restocking cycle or whether consumer demand will be sufficient to sustain economic growth into the third quarter.
However, there would appear to be sufficient evidence to make a case for the latter or at least to believe that the current rally can last long enough to justify positioning the portfolio more aggressively.
Financial panic seems to be over.
While there has been speculation that a handful of US banks would fail the stress test, markets seem to acknowledge that governments will not allow another financial institution to fail.
The recently published data on first quarter US GDP, while generally much worse than expected, highlighted that consumer demand was stronger than expected, while fide-stocking was much greater.
Macro economic leading indicators, such as orders, appear to be confirming that an inventory rebuild cycle is now under way.
The yield curve the ten year bond rate minus the three month rate is very steep the world over and continues to signal that economic recovery should be ahead of us.
Virtually every equity market valuation measure is at historically low levels.
There are signs that earnings expectations may be beaten for the first time in two years and that the rate of downgrades may moderate.
Some cyclical companies are reporting a stabilisation of business in April or at least an improvement in orders.
We are finding more attractive investment opportunities than we have done in the last two years.
Finally, the rally is now very broad based and includes companies in totally diverse sectors.
During turning points stock picking becomes particularly difficult as there is little evidence to confirm that the environment has truly improved.
The style we most like to use, earning revisions, becomes less reliable in these periods as it lags the market by three to six months.
The situation is created because managements are reluctant to confirm an improvement in trading conditions until the trend has been in place for a few months, for fear that appearing prematurely optimistic may lead to a loss of credibility.
As a consequence analysts, who take most of their information from company managements, do not pick up on a change in environment until the trend has been in place for a few months.
Perhaps the only analytical tool working at such times is short term price momentum which we are using cautiously in combination with fundamental research.
Given the limited analytical tools available in such periods, we are aiming to find a balance between prudence on one hand and taking calculated risks on the other.
Consistent with a more aggressive stance we have substantially increased the micro cap exposure within the Companys portfolio to 20 per cent and gearing to near 10 per cent.
Many uncertainties remain for the global economy, yet for now disaster seems well and truly behind us.
The challenge remains, as always, to pick the right stocks.
J Jiim m C Ca am mp pb be ellll F Fr ra an nc ce es sc co o C Co on nt te e Investment Managers 1st June 2009 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
