Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended 31st The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the March 2009. number of investments in the portfolio but in the year under review, the number of investments ranged between Business Review approximately 75 to 100.
To gain the appropriate exposure, the Investment Managers are permitted to invest in pooled Business of the Company funds.
JPMAM is responsible for management of the Companys assets.
On a day-to-day basis the assets are The Company carries on business as an investment trust and managed by two investment managers based in London, was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment supported by a 40 strong European equity team.
trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st March It should be noted that the Company invests in smaller 2008.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has companies which tend to be more volatile than larger subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to companies and the Companys shares should therefore be qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under regarded as greater than average risk.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Approval for the year ended 31st March 2008 is subject to The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing review should there be any subsequent enquiry under various investment limits and restrictions: Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more The Company is an investment company within the meaning than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company will not invest more than 12.5% not a close company for taxation purposes.
of its total assets in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition.
A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, and in the The Company does not normally invest in unquoted Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 9. investments and to do so requires prior Board approval.
No more than 25% of the Companys assets may be Objective invested in the aggregate of i securities not listed on a The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from recognised exchange: and ii holdings in which the smaller European companies excluding the UK.
Company has 20% or more of the issued equities.
It is unlikely that the Company would invest in companies that Investment Policies and Risk Management fall into either of these categories and did not do so in the year under review.
In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to manage risk, the Company invests in a diversified portfolio In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing of smaller companies in Europe, excluding the UK.
The Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment universe is defined at the time of purchase by the gross assets in other UK listed investment companies and countries and market capitalisation range of the constituents will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in of the benchmark index which, at the end of March 2009 companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of consisted of 1,000 companies with a market value of between gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
The Company does not normally enter into derivative The Company manages liquidity and borrowings to increase transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
potential sterling returns to shareholders: the Board has set a These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any normal range of 80-120% invested.
The Company borrows in time at its discretion.
Euros in order to hedge the currency risk in respect of the geared portion of the portfolio.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is The investment policy emphasises capital growth rather than reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
income and shareholders should not therefore expect a dividend.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 19 Directors Report continued Performance Ten Year Performance In the year to 31st March 2009, the Company produced a total Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st March 1998 return to shareholders of -32.4% and a total return on net 600 assets of -28.9%.
This compares with the return on the 500 Companys benchmark index of -38.7%.
As at 31st March 2009 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was 271.2m.
400 The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 9 includes a 300 review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
200 100 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Gross total loss for the year amounted to 111.6m 2008: 30.9m loss and net loss after deducting the management Source: Morningstar HSBC.
Total Return fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation JPMorgan European Fledgeling Share price amounted to 114.3m 2008: 37.4m loss.
Net revenue for the JPMorgan European Fledgeling Net asset value year amounted to 7.4m 2008: 0.4m deficit.
The Company is Benchmark unable to pay a dividend due to a 0.4m 2008: 7.8m deficit on the revenue account.
Performance against the Companys peers The principal objective is to achieve capital growth and Key Performance Indicators KPIs out-performance relative to the benchmark.
However, the The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Board also monitors the performance relative to a broad assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs range of competitor funds.
are:- Performance attribution Performance against the benchmark index The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to This is the most important KPI by which performance is assess how the Company achieved its performance judged.
relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the Performance relative to Benchmark Index various components such as asset allocation and stock Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st March 1999 selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 31st March 2009 are given in the Investment 300 Managers Report on page 5.
250 200 Discount to net asset value NAV The Board has for several years operated a share 150 repurchase programme which seeks to address 100 imbalances in supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby minimise the 50 volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at 0 which the Companys shares trade.
Total Return ranged between 9.5% and 23.9%.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Share price The Board also has the ability to purchase shares into JPMorgan European Fledgeling Net asset value Treasury and to issue them at a later date at a narrower Benchmark discount.
Further details on Treasury shares can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and in this Directors Report on page 21.
20 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Discount Performance Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment 10 strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to under-performance against the 0 Companys benchmark Index and peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider -10 discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and -20 guidelines which are monitored and reported by the Manager.
JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and accurate management information, including performance -30 data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the Source: Datastream month end data implementation and results of the investment process with JPMorgan European Fledgeling Discount the Investment Managers, who attend all Board meetings, Total expense ratio TER and review data which show statistical measures of the The TER is an expression of the Companys management fees Companys risk profile.
The Investment Managers employ and all other operating expenses, excluding interest, the Companys gearing, within a strategic range set by the expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and Board.
The Board holds a separate meeting devoted to closing net assets.
The TER for the year ended 31st March strategy each year.
The Board reviews each year Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys TER future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents and its main expenses with those of its peers.
the potential loss that the Company might suffer through holding investments in the face of negative market Share Capital movements.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock The Company has authority to issue new shares, to repurchase selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has shares into Treasury and to repurchase shares for cancellation.
set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by JPMAM.
The Board During the year the Company repurchased a total of 1,628,670 monitors the implementation and results of the shares of 25p into Treasury for a total consideration of investment process with the Manager.
9,137,000 and cancelled 2,579,875 shares purchased in previous years and held in Treasury.
Since the year end, the Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an Company has purchased a further 25,000 shares into Treasury investment trust, the Company must comply with Section for a total consideration of 121,000.
842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842.
Details of the Companys approval are During the year the Company repurchased 57,000 shares for given under Business of the Company above.
Were the cancellation for a total consideration of 396,000.
No shares Company to breach Section 842, it might lose investment have been repurchased for cancellation since the year end.
trust status and, as a consequence, gains within the The Company did not issue any new shares during the year or Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
since the Companys year end until the date of this report.
The Section 842 qualification criteria are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results reported to the Resolutions to renew the authority to issue new shares, Board each month.
The Company must also comply with repurchase shares and to sell shares from Treasury at a the provisions of The Companies Acts and, since its shares discount to NAV will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Annual General Meeting.
The full text of these resolutions are Rules.
A breach of the Companies Acts could result in the set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 52 and 53.
Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules Principal Risks could result in the Companys shares being suspended With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a from listing which in turn would breach Section 842. risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 21 Directors Report continued JPMAM to ensure compliance with The Companies Acts against the benchmark over the long term and the quality of and the UKLA Listing Rules.
the support that the Company receives from JPMAM.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details Management Fee of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.3% of the shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance value of the Companys market capitalisation and is calculated report on pages 25 to 28. and paid monthly in arrears.
An adjustment is made to exclude from the calculation investments in funds on which JPMAM Operational: Loss of key staff by JPMAM, such as the charges a management fee.
Investment Managers, could affect the performance of the Company.
Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs accounting, Going Concern dealing or payments systems or the custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the The Directors believe that having considered the Companys Companys financial position.
During the year under investment objective see page 19, risk management policies review, the Board and the Manager carried out a review of see page 44, capital management policies and procedures stocklending operations and counterparty exposures.
see page 49, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure Details of how the Board monitors the services provided projections, that the Company has adequate resources, an by JPMAM and its associates and the key elements appropriate financial structure and suitable management designed to provide effective internal control are included arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for with the Internal Control section of the Corporate the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that Governance report on page 27. there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, interest rate risk, liability risk and credit Payment Policy risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 18 on pages 44 to 49.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
Future Developments In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to Clearly, the future development of the Company is much abide by those terms.
As at 31st March 2009, the Company had dependent upon the success of the Companys investment no outstanding trade creditors 2008: none.
strategy in the light of economic and equity market developments.
The Investment Managers discuss the outlook Directors in their report on page 9.
The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the Management of the Company year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys shares are shown below.
The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMAM is employed under a contract 31st March 1st April which can be terminated on six months notice, without Directors 2009 2008 penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on Elisabeth Airey 18,538 18,538 shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way Anthony Davidson 4,011 4,011 of compensation.
Paul Manduca 1,000 1,000 JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank Federico Marescotti 1,222 1,222 which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Michael Wrobel 5,000 5,000 dealing and custodian services to the Company.
The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager and No changes in the above holdings have been recorded as at confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment the date of this report.
of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, In arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment the Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance 22 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 General Meeting will be Paul Manduca and Michael Wrobel.
Shareholders Number of % Having served as a Director for more than nine years, voting rights Elisabeth Airey stands for annual re-election, in accordance 1,2 Chase Nominees Limited 4,955,206 10.2 with corporate governance best practice.
All three Directors National Grid UK being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election by Pension Scheme 2,852,879 5.9 shareholders.
Royal County of Berkshire An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which Pension Fund 2,500,000 5.1 indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain Lazard Asset Management LLC 2,414,910 5.0 liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no JPMorgan Asset cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Management UK Ltd 2,040,635 4.2 Legal & General Disclosure of information to Auditors Investment Management 1,877,614 4.0 In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the East Riding of Yorkshire Council 1,600,000 3.3 Company at the time when this report was approved: 1 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM ISA and Share Plan participants.
a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant 2 Non-beneficial.
audit information as defined in the Companies Act of which the Company's auditors are unaware, and The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are ought to have taken as a Director in order to make contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and himself herself aware of any relevant audit information the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. as defined and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in attached to securities: no agreements between holders of accordance with the provision of Section 234 ZA of the securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no Companies Act 1985. agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Section 992 Companies Act 2006 the Company and its directors concerning compensation for The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section loss of office.
Independent Auditors Capital Structure  LLP have expressed their willingness The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside to continue in office as Auditors and a resolution to re-appoint front cover of this report.
them and authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be proposed at the Voting Rights in the Companys shares Annual General Meeting.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Annual General Meeting date of this report are given in note 11 to the Notice of AGM on page 54.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other At the date of this report, the following had declared a financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Markets Act 2000.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 | 23 Directors Report continued Resolutions relating to the following items of special business considers that circumstances could arise in which it would will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: be in shareholders interests for such powers to be exercised.
This 10% would form part of the 14.99% referred to in ii above.
i Authority to issue new shares for cash and disapply pre-emption The Board continues to believe that the effective use of rights resolutions 7 and 8 Treasury shares assists the Company in managing any The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to imbalance between supply and demand, thereby minimising issue up to 2,352,982 new shares for cash up to an aggregate the volatility and absolute level of the discount at which the nominal amount of 588,246, such amount being equivalent Companys shares trade to their net asset value, for the benefit to approximately 5% of the present issued share capital.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Accordingly, shareholders will also be asked at the Annual Meeting on page 52.
General Meeting to approve resolutions 10 and 11 which will It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new allow the Company to sell shares from Treasury at a discount shares to investors purchasing shares through the JPMAM to net asset value and disapply the statutory pre-emption savings products and also to other investors when the rights respectively.
This will enable the Company to sell shares Directors consider that it is in the best interests of held in Treasury without having to first make a pro rata offer to shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at existing shareholders.
prices greater than the NAV, thereby increasing the assets Should the resolutions be passed by shareholders, shares underlying each share and spreading the Companys would be sold from Treasury when market demand is administrative expenses, other than the management fee identified.
Sales would only be made at a discount narrower which is charged on the value of the Companys market than the weighted average discount of the shares held in capitalisation, over a greater number of shares.
The issue Treasury at that time.
This process ensures that the proceeds would be available for investment in line with the enhancement in net asset value associated with share Companys investment policies.
purchases exceeds the dilution in net asset value associated with the sale of Treasury shares at a discount.
ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares resolution 9 The Board is mindful that shareholders may be concerned about the dilution in net asset value associated with the sale of The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys Treasury shares at a discount.
It is therefore proposed that the issued share capital, renewed by shareholders at the 2008 sale of shares from Treasury at a discount be limited so that in Annual General Meeting, will expire on 7th January 2010 the year to the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting, the unless renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
aggregate dilution in net asset value per share arising on such The Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in sales does not exceed 2.88 pence per share, being the interests of shareholders as a whole as the repurchase of approximately 0.5% of the net asset value per ordinary share shares at a discount to NAV enhances the NAV of the as at 31st March 2009. remaining shares.
The Board will therefore seek shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to renew this Recommendation authority, which will last until 6th January 2011 or until the whole of the 14.99% has been acquired, whichever is the The Board considers that resolutions 7 to 11 are likely to earlier.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of promote the success of the Company and are in the best Meeting on pages 52 and 53.
Repurchases will be made at the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
discretion of the Board, and will only be made in the market at The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in prices below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing favour of the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting the NAV of the remaining shares, as and when market rights are exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial conditions are appropriate.
holdings which amount in aggregate to 29,771 shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share iii Treasury shares disapplication of pre-emption rights capital of the Company.
resolutions 10 and 11 By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of The Company is permitted to purchase up to 10% of its own JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, shares into Treasury for sale or cancellation at a future date Secretary as an alternative to immediate cancellation.
The Board 1st June 2009 24 | JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
