7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 28 28 29 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 TRX4 Business review TRX4 Glax disor Phas Partnered whet Campath panc Approved as a treatment for B-cell CLL, of ad Campath is also in development for multiple pipeline gluco sclerosis.
Two Phase III trials are progressing well, with one fully recruited and the second expected to complete recruitment by the end of 2009.
Data are anticipated in 2011, with potential approval in 2012.
Product Partner Indication Preclinica Campath Genzyme Corporation Multiple sclerosis CB7630 Cougar Biotechnology Prostate cancer abiraterone acetate Advanced breast cancer TRX4 Tolerx Type 1 diabetes Psoriasis CytoFab AstraZeneca Severe sepsis ABIO-0801 Abiogen Pharma Anxiety Juvidex Renovo Accelerated healing, scar improvement Modanil combination Victory Pharma Opiate-induced sleepiness Nexvax 2 Nexpep Coeliac disease ONX 0801 Onyx Pharmaceuticals Solid tumoursamyloid inhibitors Senexis Alzheimers disease CB7630 abiraterone acetate By reducing testosterone levels in the testes and adrenals, through inhibition of a key enzyme involved in testosterone production, CB7630 may inhibit the growth of prostate cancer cells.
Nexvax 2 Following positive Phase I and II data, CB7630 Coeliac disease is an autoimmune disease is now being studied in two Phase III trials in of the small intestine caused by exposure castration-resistant prostate cancer patients.
to dietary gluten in wheat, rye, barley and oats.
A strict gluten-free diet is the only current way to manage the condition, but Nexpep has commenced a Phase I study of Nexvax 2, an experimental vaccine, in up to 40 volunteers who have coeliac disease.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 29 TRX4 TRX4 is being developed by Tolerx and its partner GlaxoSmithKline as a treatment for autoimmune disorders.
Recruitment is continuing into a CytoFab Phase III trial in type 1 diabetes, which is exploring An inammatory condition resulting from whether TRX4 can preserve the function of uncontrolled infection, severe sepsis is estimated pancreatic beta cells and reduce the amount to affect over 750,000 people in the US each year of administered insulin required to control blood and to have a mortality rate of around 30%.
CytoFab neutralises TNF-, an inammatory mediator implicated in sepsis.
AstraZeneca is conducting a Phase II study, which is expected to nish around mid-2009, with a decision on an expanded Phase II programme to follow.
Preclinical Phase I Phase II Phase III ancer g, epiness e ONX 0801 ONX 0801 is in preclinical development as a potential treatment for cancer.
It targets tumour cells that over-express the alpha-folate receptor, entering the cells via this receptor then stopping mmune disease growth and division of the tumour cells d by exposure by inhibiting a key enzyme involved in these ye, barley and oats.
Alpha-folate receptors are overe only current way expressed in a number of tumour types including t Nexpep has ovarian, lung, breast and colorectal.
y of Nexvax 2, up to 40 volunteers 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 30 30 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review Business review continued BTGs overall financial performance was strong, with organic growth in recurring royalties and sales revenues.
to agreed stages, and revenues from licensing nonVoraxaze is an investigational new drug that is not core IP acquired some years ago when the Group approved in any indication but is currently available had interests in physical science and other in the US under a Treatment Protocol and cost technologies.
recovery programme for patients receiving high dose 2 A share of the royalty revenues and certain methotrexate 1g m who are experiencing, or at risk milestones we currently earn is paid to the originators of, methotrexate toxicity.
Voraxaze is progressing from which BTG acquired the relevant technology.
through a rolling Biologics Licence Application in the US, and we plan to market Voraxaze in the Key performance indicators US ourselves if the product is approved.
The Board uses a number of performance indicators to monitor progress against the Groups strategy.
Varisolve, the investigational endovenous These include financial and non-financial metrics.
microfoam therapy for varicose veins, successfully The key financial metrics used are EBITDA and cash completed a Phase II safety study and is progressing flow from operations.
Non-financial objectives towards pivotal Phase III trials in the US.
In parallel, include progress in establishing US commercial discussions are progressing with potential operations, achieving development and commercial partners.
These discussions, and the manufacturing project milestones, and in-licensing requirements and costs of the Phase III trials, product and out-licensing activities.
registration and launch, will inform BTGs decisions on the future technical and commercial development Pipeline progress of the programme.
Following the acquisition of Protherics, we completed a detailed review of the enlarged portfolio, assessing OncoGel, a sustained-release formulation of programmes in relation to the development pathway the chemotherapy agent paclitaxel, is progressing and associated investment, technical risks, time to through a Phase IIb study in patients with market, competitive landscape, potential returns and oesophageal cancer.
Preliminary data are anticipated strategic fit.
The Groups current internal development in H2 2010 and survival data in H1 2011. pipeline, shown on pages 26 and 27, comprises eight programmes in clinical development.
Prolarix, the prodrug tretazicar co-administered with the co-substrate caricotamide, is being studied in 20 patients with inoperable liver cancer in a Phase IIa study, which is anticipated to report in 2010.
Cash and cash equivalents Revenue 08 09 07 08 At 31 March 2009 m m Gross recurring royalties 55.3 42.4 Product revenues 13.4 Non-recurring revenues 16.1 32.6 Total revenue 84.8 75.0 78.2m Cost of sales 37.1 32.1 Gross profit 47.7 42.9 7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 31 31 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review Acadra acadesine is progressing through Cougar Biotechnology, Inc. commenced a second a Phase I II study in patients with B-cell chronic Phase III trial of CB7630 abiraterone acetate in lymphocytic leukaemia, with results anticipated patients with chemotherapy-nave castration-resistant in H1 2011. prostate cancer CRPC.
The co-primary endpoints of the trial are progression-free survival and overall BGC20-1531, an EP4 receptor antagonist targeting the survival.
Cougar plans to use the progression-free treatment of migraine headaches, showed promising survival data as the basis for submission of a New analgesic-like activity in an experimental pain study Drug Application and a Marketing Authorisation and is expected to commence a Phase IIa study early Application for Accelerated and Conditional Approval in H2 2009 with data anticipated in H2 2010. from regulatory agencies.
Tolerx, Inc. initiated a Phase III trial of TRX4 BGC20-0134, a novel structured lipid, is anticipated to in patients with autoimmune new-onset type 1 start a Phase IIa study in H2 2009 as an oral treatment diabetes.
Recruitment of European patients for patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
commenced in March 2009, and the study is now The study is expected to finish in 2011. actively recruiting patients in the US, Canada, Sweden, Finland, Italy, Germany and the UK.
Tolerx ATV, the Angiotensin Therapeutic Vaccine, was has a worldwide collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline progressing through a Phase IIa study but dosing to develop and commercialise TRX4 in a range of was suspended In April 2009 as a precaution autoimmune disorders.
following several injection site reactions and flu-like A Phase II study of CytoFab, a polyclonal symptoms in patients.
Data were reviewed from all antibody that neutralises TNFand is under patients dosed, and preliminary safety conclusions development by AstraZeneca for severe sepsis, are that there were no differences between the has made good progress and is expected to finish treatment and control groups.
were therefore most likely related to the adjuvant A Phase I safety study commenced rather than the vaccine.
in April 2009 of Nexvax 2, a novel vaccine under Although the sample size was low and development by Nexpep Pty Ltd for coeliac disease.
statistical significance could not be achieved in Key partnered programmes are shown in some measurements, the preliminary data were the pipeline on pages 28 and 29. encouraging in relation to differences observed between ATV and control groups in respect of Financial review antibody response and other measures.
BTG plans On 4 December 2008, BTG completed the acquisition to initiate a new Phase IIa study which will explore of Protherics PLC for 171.3m funded through the different doses of adjuvant.
The acquisition of Protherics added revenues from the sales of its As a result of the portfolio review, we decided not to marketed products, CroFab and DigiFab, conduct further in-house development of a number supplemented by named patient sales and cost of programmes including Digoxin Immune Fab for recovery from Voraxaze.
The R&D pipeline has severe pre-eclampsia, BGC20-1259 for Alzheimers been broadened by the addition of Protherics disease, BGC20-0582 for head lice infestation development programmes and our partnered and BGC20-0166 for obstructive sleep apnoea.
programmes have expanded to include CytoFab, Where possible we will seek partners to continue which is partnered with AstraZeneca.
development of these and other programmes The financial statements include the results not under active development.
If partners cannot of the Protherics business for the period from be found, or where we believe the technical 4 December 2008 to 31 March 2009 as well as the or commercial barriers are too high to make results of the fair value of the assets and liabilities programmes attractive to potential partners, acquired and reorganisation costs.
For comparative we will seek to return the assets to the originators.
purposes only we have included as an appendix to the accounts, unaudited pro forma consolidated Partnered programmes income statements which have been extracted from There has been very good progress in programmes the books and records of BTG plc and Protherics PLC partnered with other pharmaceutical and combining the results of both companies for the biotechnology companies.
years ended 31 March 2009 and 31 March 2008.
Enrolment of patients with active relapsingBTGs overall financial performance was remitting multiple sclerosis has completed in a Phase strong, with organic growth in recurring royalties and III trial of Campath alemtuzumab, which is under sales revenues.
The reported results have benefited development by Genzyme Corporation.
Enrolment from the retranslation of US$ revenue at more into a second Phase III trial is expected to finish by favourable rates.
The average exchange rate for the the end of 2009.
Data from the trials are expected US$ was $1.69 07 08: $1.98.
The Group ended the in 2011, with approval potentially in 2012. financial year with a healthy cash position of 78.2m.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 32 32 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review Business review continued Progress on integration is well advanced.
Site rationalisation has commenced and an R&D portfolio review has been completed.
Revenue Gross profit Revenue increased by 13.1% to 84.8m 07 08: Gross profit increased by 11.1% to 47.7m 07 08: 75.0m.
Revenue sharing was 23.2m 07 08: 17.5m from out-licensing its technology and received on recurring royalties resulting in net recurring 16.1m 07 08: 32.6m in non-recurring revenues.
Revenue In addition, we have benefited from revenues sharing on non-recurring royalties was 5.1m 07 08: of 13.4m following the acquisition of Protherics.
14.6m resulting in net non-recurring revenues We have seen good organic growth of 11.0m 07 08: 18.0m.
The cost of sales relating in recurring royalties underpinned by a strong to the 13.4m post-acquisition revenues was 8.8m, performance from BeneFIX, the treatment for including a non-cash fair value adjustment of 2.3m haemophilia B, marketed by Wyeth, at 24.7m relating to profit in stock on acquisition.
The two-part hip cup continues to show steady growth with royalties of 10.3m Operating expenses 07 08: 8.5m.
At constant currency, US$ Total operating expenses, including research and denominated recurring royalties were 13% higher development but before acquisition adjustments and than in the prior year.
reorganisation costs, increased to 43.0m 07 08: Non-recurring revenues included milestones 26.3m reflecting the increased employee numbers totalling 5.9m gross 3.0m net from Cougar and activities of the Group following the acquisition Biotechnology and Tolerx, following initiation of of Protherics in December 2008.
BTGs activities now Phase III clinical studies of CB7630 and TRX4, and include manufacturing facilities in Australia and 8.0m gross 7.3m net from licensing BGC 945 Wales together with enhanced R&D capabilities both to Onyx Pharmaceuticals.
The prior years nonin the UK and USA supporting a broader recurring revenues of 32.6m included two significant development pipeline.
contributions: 22.4m $44m gross from licensing As part of the integration of Protherics, the semiconductor chip memory capacity patents BTG stated it would seek to reduce G&A costs by and a 4.9m $10m gross milestone from Tolerx.
10m and R&D expenditure by 10m by the 2010 11 Between 4 December 2008 and 31 March year-end.
Progress on integration is well advanced.
2009, CroFab sales revenues were 9.2m, Site rationalisation has commenced with the closure DigiFab sales revenues were 2.2m and of two London offices and relocation of staff to a Voraxaze generated 1.0m from named patient smaller London office.
The decisions to close the sales and cost recovery.
former Protherics Runcorn office and manufacturing From the pro forma accounts, in the full year facility in Salt Lake City have been announced and to 31 March 2009, total revenues from the Protherics closure of the sites is expected at the end of June business were 32.3m 07 08: 26.1m.
In addition, a company-wide rationalisation DigiFab revenues were 5.5m 07 08: 4.8m plan has been implemented which will result in a and Voraxaze delivered 2.9m 07 08: 2.8m reduction in headcount of approximately 20% with from named patient sales and cost recovery.
As the employee levels falling from a combined total of 365 majority of the Protherics revenues are denominated when the deal was announced to 290.
Research and in US$, the results have benefited from favourable development expenses increased to 21.6m 07 08: US$ exchange translation.
Organic sales growth 12.9m as a result of the increased number of for these products in US$ was approximately 8%.
An R&D portfolio Other revenues from Protherics, including revenue review has been completed, identifying programmes recognition of milestones received in prior periods that we will take forward to market ourselves: those under the CytoFab contract, totalled 3.3m that we will develop further with a view to out-licence 07 08: 2.8m.
and those where we will seek a partner but not develop further ourselves.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 33 33 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review During the year BTG realised profits on sale Non-current assets of investments and IP of 2.6m and recorded Non-current assets increased from 14.1m to impairment provisions of 3.4m against other 211.1m.
The majority of this increase derives from investments.
the valuation of the assets acquired from Protherics The pro forma full year operating expenses, which resulted in intangible assets of 164.1m and excluding acquisition and reorganisation costs, 30.0m of goodwill.
of the intangible assets include Protherics developed technology 120.3m, contractual relationships Acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 36.1m and various development programmes As a result of the acquisition of Protherics, acquisition 7.7m.
The developed technology will be amortised adjustments and reorganisation costs of 16.2m over periods of between 20 and 25 years.
Reorganisation costs were 10.9m, Contractual relationships are amortised over the including redundancy payments, site closure costs contract period.
Development programmes will and impairment charges, of which cash costs are be amortised once they generate revenue streams expected to be in the region of 8.0m.
Payments and then will be amortised over their useful lives.
of 0.6m had been made by 31 March 2009.
The net book value of the Groups property, plant BTG valued the inventory acquired from and equipment increased to 11.1m 07 08: 0.8m Protherics at acquisition to reflect profit accrued up to primarily due to the inclusion of Protherics the stage of production at the time of the transaction.
As a result of the subsequent sale of this inventory, a non-cash fair value adjustment of 2.3m has Current assets, current and non-current liabilities been charged to cost of sales.
Included in operating Inventory of 10.5m represents raw material, work expenses is a 3.0m charge for amortisation in progress and finished goods of CroFab and of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
DigiFab manufactured at the Groups facilities in Australia and Wales.
Trade and other receivables Operating profit loss have increased from 15.2m to 29.6m reflecting BTG made an operating profit of 7.0m 07 08: the inclusion of Protherics year-end receivables 16.6m before acquisition adjustments and and accrued royalty revenues.
The loss from operations after Current liabilities have increased from acquisition adjustments and reorganisation costs 24.2m to 69.7m.
relates to deferred revenue that will not give rise to a cash outflow.
Financial income and costs Non-current liabilities have increased from The net financial costs were 2.1m 07 08: net financial 6.9m to 47.1m.
The major movements include income of 2.2m.
Financial income of 2.9m was only a 35.2m provision for deferred taxation that arises slightly higher than in the previous year 07 08: 2.7m on the valuation of the intangible assets acquired despite higher cash balances due to lower interest from Protherics.
Financial expenses of 5.0m 07 08: 0.5m included fair value losses of 4.9m on marking Cash to market BTGs forward contracts to sell US dollars.
Net cash and cash equivalents increased by 21.2m to 78.2m at 31 March 2009 31 March 2008: Taxation 57.0m.
The increase in cash was generated The taxation charge for the year is 1.8m, arising primarily by 23.2m of cash acquired from Protherics as a result of a corporate tax charge of 2.9m offset offset by marginal cash outflow from operating by movements on deferred tax liabilities of 1.1m.
Loss profit after tax Outlook BTG made a profit after tax before acquisition 2008 09 has been a transformational year for BTG.
adjustments and reorganisation costs of 3.1m We have made significant progress in delivering our 07 08: 16.9m.
integration goals and cost savings.
The underlying After acquisition adjustments and growth in our recurring revenues, combined with reorganisation costs, BTG made a loss after tax a focus on cost reduction, provides a solid financial of 13.1m 07 08: profit after tax of 8.8m resulting platform on which to develop our growth strategy.
in a loss per share of 7.1p 07 08: earnings per share of 5.9p.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 34 34 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review Business review continued BTG monitors developments in pricing and reimbursement in key markets but it is not possible currently to quantify the impact on its business of any future changes.
Partnering Patients and Product failures and pipeline gaps have led to increased competition among biotechnology and physicians still have pharmaceutical companies to acquire programmes.
BTG does not conduct its own research and needs to acquire programmes from other organisations to operate its business.
BTG has the financial resources and technical capabilities to be able to compete effectively for the niche products it intends to develop and sell to US hospital specialists.
To realise value from its own development Trends affecting performance and development pipeline, BTG seeks partners to take forward BTGs performance and prospects are and will programmes it does not intend to develop through continue to be affected by developments in the to approval and market itself.
To maximise the return global healthcare sector.
on investment when partnering, BTG directs its development activities to generate proof of concept Regulation safety and efficacy data, and establishes strong BTG operates in a highly regulated, changing intellectual property to protect the programmes and environment in which substantial evidence of the maximise their value to partners.
safety and efficacy of a medicine is required before it is approved for use in patients.
These requirements Products and competition contribute to the long timescales and significant BTG s key current royalty-generating products are costs involved in developing new pharmaceuticals.
expected to continue to provide royalty revenues until Although BTG conducts its clinical studies their patents or licence agreements expire.
Partners through a network of contract research organisations are responsible for all sales and marketing: BTG has CROs, as the sponsor of the studies, BTG is ultimately no role in this but it does monitor sales and market responsible for their proper conduct and adherence to trends.
While some of the current licensed products all regulations.
By employing people with appropriate are expected to continue to generate royalties skills and experience, working with high-quality CROs through to 2017 or 2019, a number of royalties will and implementing appropriate quality systems, BTG cease in 2011 when patents expire, including is well placed to meet the regulatory requirements BeneFIX, the current largest revenue earner and the of the territories in which it operates.
only approved recombinant Factor IX treatment for the bleeding disorder haemophilia B.
However, from Demand for new medicines around this time, a number of new royalty streams Despite significant advances over the past few may emerge including CB7630, if approved as decades in treating life-threatening conditions and a treatment for prostate cancer, and Campath, disorders that impact quality of life, patients and if approved to treat multiple sclerosis.
physicians still have many unmet needs.
In addition, BTG also earns revenues from sales of an increasingly healthand appearance-conscious, its critical care products including CroFab and wealthy and motivated population continues to fuel DigiFab.
These products are currently distributed demand for improved medicines and products to by third parties, but from 2010 BTG intends to sell improve quality of life.
There is no current competitor BTG has positioned itself to try to address to CroFab and only one competitor to DigiFab some of these needs by focusing on medicines that BTG estimates that DigiFab has approximately are used in critical care situations, to treat cancer, 80% of the market.
Although these are established neurological and other disorders that cause niche products and the manufacturing processes significant quality of life issues.
are complex, providing some protection, future competition cannot be ruled out.
Price regulation BTGs approach is to build a strong pipeline The increasing demand for new medicines is leading of products addressing unmet needs, to conduct to rising costs for healthcare providers.
Most countries high-quality development programmes, and to now control the cost of medicines, and there is assess the commercial prospects of programmes increasing pressure to demonstrate value for money at appropriate intervals.
BTG is well placed to acquire, and economic as well as clinical benefits before develop and commercialise new programmes that, healthcare providers agree to pay or part-reimburse if successfully approved, should generate sales the cost of new medicines.
or royalty income to replace and potentially exceed current royalty and revenue streams.
7716 Report 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:08 Page 35 35 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Business review BTG focuses on medicines that are used in critical care situations and to treat cancer, neurological and other disorders that affect quality of life.
Principal risks and uncertainties Regulatory The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated.
Competition Compliance with such regulations, including We face competition when seeking to acquire demonstrating compliance with Good Manufacturing new programmes and products, and, if we are Practice and Good Clinical Practice standards, can unsuccessful in accessing new programmes and be time-consuming and expensive and alterations products, our ability to generate new revenue to the regulations may result in delays or even nonstreams would be adversely affected.
The products approval of a product in development.
Moreover, on which BTG currently earns revenues, or from failure by BTG or a BTG partner company to comply which it anticipates earning revenues once they are with regulations may result in a product being on the market, face competition from other products withdrawn from market with a subsequent loss that are already approved or in development: such of revenues.
Intellectual property Pricing and reimbursement Failure by BTG to maintain or renew key patents might The failure of a product to qualify for government or lead to losses of earnings and liability to suit from health-insurance reimbursement or changes to the both the licensee and licensor.
BTGs patents may environment for reimbursement could adversely be subject to challenge for infringement which might impact revenues.
The failure to achieve an appropriate result in litigation costs and or loss of earnings.
sales price could adversely impact revenues.
BTG might be obliged to sue third parties for their infringement of its patents.
BTG may not be able to Development secure the necessary IP rights in relation to products The development of drug and medical products in development, limiting the potential to generate is inherently uncertain and the timelines and costs value from these products.
BTGs patent portfolio is to approval may vary significantly from budget subject to a number of challenges.
The drug may not demonstrate the expected efficacy or safety benefits and may not Currency and treasury be approved by the regulatory bodies, such as the Many of BTGs revenues and receipts are US Food and Drug Administration.
denominated in US$ and movements in foreign exchange rates could adversely impact results.
BTG Manufacturing actively manages its exchange risks where feasible, BTG relies on third-party contractors for the supply using short-term hedging transactions guided of key materials and services, such as filling and by market expectations and economic forecasts, freeze-drying of end products.
These processes to seek to match actual receipts and payments over carry risks of failure and loss of product.
Problems a rolling 24 month period to those forecast.
This at contractors facilities may lead to delays and policy can result in both exchange gains and losses disruptions in supplies.
Some materials and services but provides a level of certainty.
may be available from one source only and regulatory requirements make substitution costly and time-consuming.
BTGs polyclonal antibody products rely on serum produced from our sheep flocks in Australia, which could be subject to disease outbreaks.
BTG relies on its single site in Wales for the supply of manufactured product, with the consequent possibilities for disruption to supplies.
