Board of Directors Andrew Murison Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee A Director since 2002, Chairman since 2003 Previously Senior Bursar of Peterhouse, University of Cambridge and currently a director of Aberdeen Growth Opportunities Trust plc and Hg Capital Trust plc.
His qualifications for Board membership are long experience of financial, investment and strategic management.
Robin Faber Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2000 Finance director of The Ashfield Land Property Group and a director of a number of other companies.
His qualifications for Board membership are as a qualified accountant with long experience of investment.
Stephen Goldman A Director since September 2008 He has a wide experience of investing in European equities.
Spent 12 years at NM Rothschild Asset Management, in the pension department, where he was promoted to lead the UK Equity Research team.
Joined JPMorgan in 1990 as Head of the UK Portfolio Management and the European Client Portfolio Management teams.
In 2000 he moved to Credit Suisse Asset Management as Managing Director and Head of Equities for the European Region.
He was responsible for the equity teams throughout Europe which managed both specialist and balanced mandates for both institutional and retail clients.
Stephen is a director of Cavendish Asset Management Limited.
Stephen Russell A Director since 2005 Spent eleven years at SLC Asset Management now CSAM, most notably as Fund Manager of 5bn of equities, before joining HSBC Investment Bank as Head of Europe & UK Equity Strategy.
He is currently Investment Director at Ruffer LLP.
His qualifications for Board membership are practical experience of investment in Europe and knowledge of both the institutional and private client markets.
Ferdinand Verdonck Belgian A Director since 1998 Director of a number of Continental European companies and Phoenix investment funds in the USA.
Formerly Managing Director of the Almanij Group.
His qualification for Board membership are many years experience of European finance and industry.
All Directors are members of the Audit and Nomination Committees and are considered independent of the Manager.
40 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
