7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:28 Page 42 42 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report Directors report The directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Group, together with the audited financial statements each director is subject to re-election at intervals of not more for the year ended 31 March 2009. than three years.
Any director appointed during the year is separately required to retire and seek election at the next Principal activities and business review Annual General Meeting AGM.
The following directors are The principal activity of the Group is the development and subject to election at the Companys 2009 AGM: commercialisation of life science technologies.
The Group William Jenkins retires in accordance with the articles in-licenses, develops and commercialises pharmaceuticals of association and, being eligible, the Board is and has a broad pipeline of development programmes recommending he offers himself for re-election targeting neurological and other disorders including Rolf Soderstrom and James OShea, having been varicose veins.
The Company has a substantial and appointed since the last AGM retire and, being eligible, growing revenue stream of milestones and royalties from the Board is recommending that they offer themselves out-licensed products.
On 4 December 2008 BTG acquired for election.
Protherics PLC which is principally involved in the research, development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical During the year the Company has maintained cover for its products and potential drugs for use in the treatment directors and officers and those of its subsidiary companies of human diseases.
The results of the Group are set out under a directors and officers liability insurance policy as in detail on pages 68 to 71 and the accompanying notes.
permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has entered into separate Deeds of The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Indemnity in favour of each of its directors to the extent Review, including a review of the business, the principal permitted by law.
These deeds provide substantially the business risks, key performance indicators and likely future same protection as that already provided to directors in developments, can be found in the Chief Executive Officers article 75 6 of the Companys existing articles of association.
Review on pages 20 to 23 and the Business Review on pages 24 to 35.
These are incorporated into this report Information on directors remuneration, contracts, options and by reference.
their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the Further information on the Group is available on the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 64.
None of the directors Companys website: www.
com had an interest in any contract of significance to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was party during the Results and dividends year.
Giles Kerr is Director of Finance at Oxford University, The Group made a loss on ordinary activities before an organisation with which the Group has a number of pretaxation of 11.3m 07 08: profit 10.7m.
The loss after existing agreements.
See page 115 for further information.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year Corporate governance 07 08: nil.
The results of the Group for the year are A report on corporate governance may be found on pages explained further on pages 31 to 35.
Directors and their powers and interests Corporate social responsibility The directors of the Company at the date of this report, Information on the Companys social, environmental, health together with their biographical details and dates of and safety and ethical considerations, charitable donations appointment, are shown on pages 40 and 41.
The Board and policies regarding its employees may be found in the confirms that each of the directors who served during Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 36 to 38. the year has been formally appraised during the period and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to Acquisition of Protherics PLC the Group and the Board and to their role.
On 18 September 2008, the Board of BTG announced that it had agreed the terms of a recommended all share offer There were a number of Board changes during the year: with the board of Protherics PLC to acquire the entire issued Rolf Soderstrom joined the Board as Chief Financial and to be issued share capital of Protherics.
The acquisition Officer on 4 December 2008 and became Company was effected by a Scheme of Arrangement under part 26 Secretary on 31 March 2009 of the Companies Act 2006.
Under the terms of the Scheme, Christine Soden became Chief Operating Officer on Protherics shareholders who were on the register of 4 December 2008 and retired as Company Secretary members on 3 December 2008 were entitled to receive and as a director on 31 March 2009 0.291 new BTG shares for every Protherics share they held James OShea was appointed as a non-executive at that date.
The new BTG shares were admitted to trading director subsequent to the year end on 2 April 2009. on the London Stock Exchange at the start of business on 4 December 2008 and were credited as fully paid and 7716 Accounts 2009. qxd 16 6 09 16:28 Page 43 43 BTG plc Annual Report 2009 Directors report Directors report continued ranked pari passu in all respects to the existing BTG shares.
At 31 March 2009 the total owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 35 days average purchases Certain non-UK nationals and holders of Protherics PLC 07 08: 22 days.
The Company had no trade creditors ADRs were not eligible to receive BTG shares and received at that date 07 08: nil.
the value of the equivalent BTG shares which were sold in the market on their behalf following the acquisition.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and cash Share capital and shareholders resources and facilities available, and after making enquiries, During the year 104,044,710 ordinary shares were issued the directors believe that the Company has adequate pursuant to the acquisition of Protherics referred to above.
resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
A further 226,426 BTG shares were issued to employees For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern and former employees of BTG as a result of the exercise basis in preparing the financial statements.
See page 72 for of share options under the Companys employee share further details.
Under the terms of the acquisition, current and former employees of Protherics who were holders of Change of registered office options under the Protherics share schemes were entitled On 16 March 2009, as part of the cost saving exercise to exercise their options and receive shares in BTG in following the acquisition of Protherics, BTG vacated the same ratio as shareholders at the acquisition date.
its existing London head office and the nearby Protherics A further 7,275 BTG shares were issued to a former offices and all staff moved to new smaller premises employee of Protherics under this arrangement.
There at 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD.
This is now the new are no restrictions on voting rights or on the transfer head office and registered office of the Group.
Share capital comprises solely of ordinary shares and all have the same voting rights.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am on Details of outstanding share options and awards under 15 July 2009 at the offices of Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, both the pre-existing BTG schemes and those carried 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA.
The details of the over from Protherics, are set out in note 31 to the financial resolutions to be proposed are set out in the Notice of the statements on pages 105 to 109.
Annual General Meeting which is enclosed with this report.
Details of the movements in the Companys share capital Among the resolutions at the AGM are proposals to adopt are shown in note 25 to the financial statements on new share plans following the expiry of the previous page 99.
At 31 March 2009, the Company had 10,429 versions at the end of their ten year life.
Further details of shareholdings set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
and Company reporting dates may be found on page 128.
Disclosure of information to the auditor At the date of this report the Company had been notified The directors who held office at the date of approval of this of the following interests held, directly or indirectly, Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is in 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor % is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves Invesco Asset Management 22.7 Aviva Investors 5.4 aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Schroder Investment Management UK Ltd 5.4 M&G Investment Management Ltd 5.1 Auditor Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.9 Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM, to AXA Framlington Investment Management Ltd 3.8 re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the Standard Life Investments Ltd 3.6 0 directors to determine its remuneration.
The Companys articles of association permit the Company By order of the Board to purchase any of its shares, however this cannot be done without the approval of shareholders at an AGM and there is Rolf Soderstrom no current intention of requesting this authority.
The Company Company Secretary may also issue shares in accordance with the resolutions set out in the AGM Notice, enclosed with this report.
13 May 2009 Policy on payment of creditors It is the BTG Groups policy to abide by the terms of payment agreed with suppliers.
In many cases, the terms of payment are as stated in the suppliers own literature.
In other cases, the terms of payment are determined by specific written or oral agreement.
