Investment Managers Report Performance Last year we said that the year under review was a difficult one for equity investment.
Little did we suspect that the next year would be the most difficult in 70 years, and we propose in this report to examine in considerable detail the background to what happened.
For the Growth portfolio the NAV fell by 37.5% and the share price by 43.1% both on a total return basis against a benchmark that fell by 31.1%.
One year, however, is a very short period over which to judge what are by definition long-term investment assets and over three years the share price and NAV have fallen at a compound annual rate of 12.9% and 10.7% respectively against a benchmark which Stephen Macklow-Smith has fallen at a compound annual rate of 7.6%.
Over five years the share price and NAV have shown a compound annual growth rate of 3.5% and 2.9% respectively against a benchmark which has shown a compound annual growth rate of 4.8%.
Over ten years the share price and NAV have both shown a compound annual growth rate of 2.3% against a benchmark which has compounded at 1.3%.
The Income portfolio saw its share price fall by 33.9% but the NAV matched the benchmark performance, both falling by 30.5%.
Since launch, the share price and NAV for the Income portfolio have fallen at a compound annual rate of 10.6% and 8.4% respectively against a benchmark which has fallen at a compound annual rate of 7.3%.
It goes without saying that our performance is shown net of all costs involved in running the Company, including investment management charges, whereas the performance of the benchmark is not hampered by those charges.
Alexander Fitzalan Howard When we launched the Income portfolio we stated in the prospectus that we felt it would deliver a yield of between 3.25% and 3.5%.
Last year the Income portfolio paid an ordinary dividend of 4.0p net a yield of 4% on the initial issue price of 1.00 and a special dividend of 1.15p net.
One of the aims of the Income portfolio is to deliver a steadily growing stream of income over time and although we think it is unlikely that the level of dividend paid by the broader market is going to increase in the next year or so, nevertheless the current yield on the Income shares of 6.9% makes the shares attractive compared to the yields available from cash.
Up until the end of the second quarter of 2008 our process was out-performing: in the second half of the calendar year the underlying process under-performed and the under-performance was exacerbated by the fact that we were geared in September when Lehman Brothers was allowed to fail and the equity market fell dramatically.
Market Background It is only now that the full impact of the Lehman failure is becoming apparent.
This was not confined to the financial markets but has had a profound impact on the wider economy, as shown by the Gross Domestic Product figures for the fourth quarter, especially those from Asia which saw a steep decline in exports.
This seems to have been a function not only of dramatic fide-stocking, as companies hoarded cash, but also of the failure of the financial market related to letters of credit and trade finance.
Coming into the Lehman debacle, dry-bulk shipping rates had halved in the previous four months.
In the space of ten weeks after the Lehman failure they collapsed by 86%.
In a recent speech, Mervyn King alluded to the Lehman failure as a critical catalyst in the banking and solvency crisis which engulfed the global economy, but went on to say that, in his view, even if Lehman had been saved there would have been another catalyst.
His view has now been backed up by Janet Yellen, the president of the San 12 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y Francisco Federal Reserve, who said in a recent speech in New York that she disagreed with Federal Reserve officials who argued in September that a government bailout of Lehman would encourage excessive risk-taking among investors.
She added that the impact of Lehmans failure was devastating... Thats when this crisis took a quantum leap up in terms of seriousness.
Whether this is correct or not, the fact is that before the Lehman debacle, the situation for many banks was that while they had toxic assets which they needed to write down, they also had profitable lending businesses in other areas and also in the case of the European banks they had fee-earning businesses in the area of personal savings.
Once the sub-prime crisis had broken in May 2007 banks were playing for time, but the strategy was modestly successful: they could generate a stream of quarterly profits from their ordinary businesses against which they could take write-offs on the exotica.
It was even possible for some banks to raise new capital.
After Lehman however, two things happened: the first was that the stream of profitable business dried up completely as everyone in the market hoarded cash, meaning that there were no further quarterly profits against which to take write-offs.
The second was that the Lehman failure wiped out not only the equity holders but the bond-holders as well and this completely torpedoed the confidence of investors, who suddenly preferred to take an annualised yield of 0.01% on treasury bills than incur any risk at all.
In this environment the collapse in demand further undermined the domestic and commercial real estate markets, as well as pushing many small and medium-sized companies close to insolvency putting yet further pressure on the banking system, as banks were now faced not only with write-offs on asset-backed securities, but with a sudden escalation of loan-loss provisioning on their domestic and commercial loan book, as well as on corporate lending and credit cards.
Since the collapse of Lehman we have had a series of initiatives from policy-makers and central banks around the world to try to restore confidence to financial markets, and we are waiting to see what the effect of quantitative easing will be in the US and the UK.
At the moment the impact is unclear, although it is not impossible that there will be a modest short-term recovery in growth.
The key problems remain, however, the continued deleveraging, the crisis of confidence which has brought the velocity of money close to zero and the collapse in world trade.
Against this background it is not helpful to have politicians indulging in the kind of protectionist rhetoric which may in their eyes play well with the voters but which reminds those with a sense of history of the mistakes made in the 1930s.
Performance attribution The attribution analysis shown elsewhere in this report reveals a sharp dichotomy between the performance of the Growth and Income portfolios.
Both took the same tactical gearing decisions at the same time.
Having not been geared into the initial fall in equity markets in the second calendar quarter of 2008, the indicators that we use to assist in timing gearing decisions showed that markets were oversold, that valuations were attractive, and that sentiment had become very negative.
We therefore geared both portfolios by 10% in late July and in the early stages this decision was vindicated by a rise in the level of the market.
When the Lehman failure was announced, however, the market went into very sharp reverse and the ranges that had served historically to delimit market moves in valuation, sentiment and momentum broke emphatically to the downside.
To take one example, the Composite JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 13 T H E C O M P A N Y Investment Managers Report continued Valuation Indicator which we use as a proxy for market valuation moved from being 2 standard deviations cheap a level which had served as a floor to the market in the emerging markets crisis of 1998 and again in 2003 to nearly 4 standard deviations cheap, a level it had never reached before.
Gearing Our gearing therefore cost us performance, although we were able to use the increase in interest rates on credit in the summer of 2008 to break the swap and enable the company to benefit from subsequent easing of monetary policy.
At a stock selection level, however, the experience of the two portfolios was very different, with the Income portfolio adding value through stock selection, while the Growth portfolios stock selection detracted from returns.
The underlying philosophy in both portfolios is the same, however the Income portfolio differs in implementation in a couple of important respects.
First, the Income portfolio defines value using dividend yield, whereas the Growth portfolio defines value using the ratio between price and earnings.
In our previous financial year, yield investing had been out of favour with investors and as a result the Income portfolio had under-performed.
This year however, investors became hungry for yield, especially as interest rates on cash and fixed income fell and therefore higher-yielding stocks did well against the broader market.
All other metrics for measuring value under-performed however, and therefore in the Growth portfolio our exposure to cheap stocks did not help us to out-perform the market.
Not only that, but in the section of the portfolio which seeks to benefit from holding stocks exhibiting good price momentum relative to the market, the stocks which had performed well in the first half of the calendar year mainly in the commodities, energy, and cyclical areas, suddenly started to under-perform in the second half, even though the news on profits which they announced in the third quarter was good and ahead of market estimates.
At the time of the Lehmans failure, there was a headlong rush into supposedly defensive sectors such as Healthcare and Food Manufacturing, an area of the market where we were underweight.
Because we are fairly sector-neutral, we had an exposure to financials throughout this period: in this area we were actually successful in picking good stocks and avoiding the disasters especially those stocks which flirted with or fell into public ownership however, this was not enough to offset stock selection elsewhere.
Stock Selection This is the second successive year in which stock selection has detracted from performance in the Growth portfolio and this is unsatisfactory.
We did do however, an enormous amount of research over the course of the year in order to refine the measures that we use and to verify that there was no underlying problem with the system that we use for gauging attractiveness for individual stocks and we presented the results of this to the board.
The conclusion was that the set-backs in 2007 and 2008 did not invalidate the long-term case for buying cheap stocks with a catalyst to crystallise out-performance and stocks exhibiting good price momentum supported by strong positive profits progression.
From a longer-term perspective, stock selection has added 1.1% of value annually to our performance in the Growth portfolio for the last 10 years.
In the last five years, it has detracted 0.5% from annual performance with a strong positive contribution in the years to March 2006 and March 2007 offset by weakness in the last two years.
These figures tend to support our contention that for all the problems of the last eighteen months, the longer-term 14 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y track record of our investment process withstands scrutiny.
It is also worth remembering that the threat of a systemic crisis in global banking is thankfully extremely rare and the way in which volatility spiked to unprecedented levels in 2008 suggests that a recurrence of these events is extremely unlikely in any realistic time horizon.
Market outlook Sentiment indicators however, became very negative towards the end of the reporting period, with risk aversion at extreme levels.
This is shown in the Credit Suisse investor risk appetite indicator RAI below, which tracks the risk return relationship across over 60 equity and bond markets.
The RAI measures the amount of risk or market volatility that investors in aggregate are prepared to take on per unit of return.
Over its 27-year history, the indicator shows periods of euphoria where the index had a value greater than 5 and periods of panic where the index fell below 3.
Recently, the indicator was stuck deep in panic territory, for just the third time in the history of this monthly series.
This suggests that investors are already anticipating problems and this has been reflected in prices, perhaps creating a longer term opportunity.
There is a real problem in making comments about valuations at a time like this, because anything based on earnings meets the rejoinder Well earnings are about to halve, so earnings-based valuations are completely misleading.
This however, is a circular argument, since the price action of markets in the last nine months has anticipated this earnings decline.
There are, though, other ways of looking at valuation which avoid the tortuous earnings debate.
The heart of the matter is that companies are a collection of physical and intellectual assets with the potential to make returns.
At a time when demand is under pressure the earnings power of these assets is severely compromised, but this does not mean that the assets themselves no longer have any value.
One of the complications in current asset pricing is that in normal markets there are buyers of last resort for assets, whether that is other companies in the form of merger and acquisition, or private equity and venture capital funds, or even company managements with an appetite to buy out the assets and run them themselves.
The missing lubricant for this corporate activity is credit: even for an all-paper deal you need to be able to access short-term financing and with credit markets effectively closed it means that all deals are off literally.
JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 T H E C O M P A N Y Investment Managers Report continued If credit markets normalise, then we should expect to see a pick-up in corporate Growth performance attribution activity which will help to stabilise equity markets.
Because the asset valuations for the year to 31st March 2009 on most measures are now very attractive.
If we look at price to book value, by the % % end of December 2008 a third of Continental European companies traded on a discount to book value, a quarter of UK and US companies, and a startling three Contributions to Total Returns quarters of Japanese companies.
Benchmark total return 31.1 Asset allocation 1.3 Stock selection 9.9 Valuations at extremes Price Book Gearing cash 2.9 80% Currency 2.5 Investment Manager contribution 9.0 60% Portfolio total return 40.1 Management fees 40% other expenses 0.7 Performance fee 0.5 Share repurchases 0.7 20% Residual 2.1 Other effects 2.6 0% Net asset value total return 37.5 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 Impact of increase Europe in discount 5.6 US Share price total return 43.1 Japan Sources: Thomson Datastream, JPMAM Global Multi Asset Group Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Fundamental Data.
Note: Indices used: S&P 500, MSCI Europe ex UK, FTSE 100 and Topix.
Data up to December 2008 All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its However there is another more compelling reason for not writing equities off at the benchmark.
moment and its based on the fact that equities are a financial investment that The residual arises principally from timing compete for cash with other financial assets.
This is especially pertinent at the differences in the treatment of income flows.
The moment, because the past six months have seen a huge flight into cash and fixed xamin attribution system accounts for income on income.
Indeed in Europe, holdings in cash funds exceed holdings in equity funds for a received on the ex-dividend date basis the third time in 16 years the previous occasions being the start of the bull market in whereas Fundamental Data calculate the Companies NAV Total Return using the actual 1992 93 and the start of the bull market in 2003. dividends paid by the Company on the exThis on its own does not mean anything, but when we look at the rate of return on dividend date.
cash and fixed income it is difficult to forecast anything other than meagre pickings, A glossary of terms and definitions is whereas at least in equities you are compensated for your capital risk with a decent provided on page 92. yield.
In all of the major markets dividend yields exceed the yield on local bonds, and yes, while it is true that many sectors will be under pressure to reduce dividends, a lot of that expectation is embedded in the price.
Were equity markets to end this year at the same level they started it, they would still have out-performed cash and bonds by virtue of the income they pay out.
Lombard Street Research published a note in February drawing on data that they have compiled going back to 1871.
They use the data to construct a trend over time which shows that the real rate of growth since then in the US equity market has been 6.7% and that this trend has been remarkably consistent considering the number of dislocations which the US economy has suffered.
Relative to this long-term real trend the US equity market in February had only been cheaper in 26 out of 1,680 months, 17 in 1920-1921, 3 in 1932, 2 in 1942, and 3 in 1982.
They also point out that only in 1932 and 1982 were these periods of cheapness not a consequence of World Wars.
16 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 T H E C O M P A N Y It is also worth bearing in mind that the composition of equity markets has changed: Income performance attribution Healthcare, Consumer Staples, Utilities, and Telcos which are loosely viewed as more for the year to 31st March 2009 defensive sectors account for 42% of the Bloomberg European 500 Index, 37% of %% the All Share and 36% of the S&P500, as of the time of writing.
The weight of the more vulnerable sectors such as Financials has fallen correspondingly, as has their Contributions to Total Returns contribution to the earnings that form the basis of valuations such as price earnings Benchmark total return 30.5 and dividend yield.
Asset allocation 1.9 Stock selection 4.6 Taking a longer-term perspective, we feel that there is still an excellent case for Gearing cash 3.5 buying European equities.
As shown above, the valuation is supportive.
Not only that, Currency 1.6 but the financial health of European industrial companies is also better going into this Investment Manager downturn than on any previous occasion: debt levels are lower, interest cover is very contribution 2.4 high, and the level of working capital has fallen relative to sales fairly consistently for Portfolio total return 32.9 the last decade.
European companies have also been very disciplined about Management fees investment which is one reason why their debt levels are not high, and a great deal other expenses 1.1 of this investment has been in the countries of Eastern Europe.
Not only do these Share buy-back countries have a comparative cost advantage, but the decline in their currencies in Issuance0.6 the last year has made them extremely competitive versus the US Dollar bloc.
VAT recovery 0.6 Residual 2.3 We believe that steady adherence to the principle of finding companies whose Other effects 2.4 profitability is improving on a solid and sustainable basis will allow us to return to Net asset value total return 30.5 out-performing the stock market as a whole and we will continue to apply ourselves diligently on behalf of our shareholders.
Impact of increase in discount 3.4 Share price total return 33.9 Stephen Macklow-Smith Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Fundamental Data.
Alexander Fitzalan Howard All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance Investment Managers 8th June 2009 attribution analyses how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark.
The residual arises principally from timing differences in the treatment of income flows.
The xamin attribution system accounts for income on a received on the ex-dividend date basis whereas Fundamental Data calculate the Companies NAV Total Return using the actual dividends paid by the Company on the exdividend date.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 92.
