Investment Managers Report Performance The year ending 30th September 2009 was an extremely volatile year for global economies and markets and Japan was no exception to this.
The Japanese stockmarket is dominated by manufacturing exporters which felt the full force of the global demand collapse even though personal and corporate balance sheets were relatively healthy.
The collapse in global trade and the demand for products from cars to computers rapidly affected the domestic economy.
By July, Japanese unemployment had reached an all time high and domestic companies felt the effects of falling disposable incomes.
James Elliot In sterling terms, the companys NAV rose by 10.5% over the year against the return of our benchmark index, the Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section TOPIX of 12.7%.
The underperformance recorded resulted from the weak performance in the very volatile markets witnessed in the first half of the year.
The second half of the year saw a modest outperformance of the index 17.6% vs. 17.0%.
In yen terms the TOPIX Index actually fell by 14.7% over the year.
The Economy The first half of the year saw a plethora of record breaking poor data as the effects of the Lehman bankruptcy spread to Asia.
Capacity utilisation levels at many companies fell to record lows.
Japanese industrial production fell to 1983 levels when capacity Nicholas Weindling was 25% lower, while exports fell 46% in January on top of a 35% drop in December.
In the first quarter of 2009 Japans GDP fell at an annualised rate of 12.4%, twice the rate of any other developed economy.
Due to the speed and severity of the downturn the pick up in macro data has been rapid in the second half of the year.
Export volumes rose for a sixth consecutive month in September and are now 25% higher than the trough in February.
Global trade is accelerating again and the labour market has also started to show signs of stabilisation, with manufacturing overtime hours up 30% since the bottom in the first quarter.
Employment data will eventually improve while wages should increase as companies withdraw emergency measures that saw temporary cuts in salaries.
Looking at the long-term, the structural problems facing Japan remain significant.
The current population of just over 127 million will fall to around 100m by 2050.
The ratio of people aged 65 and over will rise from 20% today to over 30% in twenty years time.
Deflation remains entrenched which creates a difficult environment for consumer spending this continued lack of dynamism in the domestic economy contributes to the low return on equity generated by many domestic Japanese companies.
However, it is very important for investors to separate the issues affecting the economy from those that affect the market.
Manufacturing accounts for close to 60% of market capitalisation of the TOPIX Index, an area where we believe Japan is strongest, whereas it is just 21% of GDP.
Simply put, the Japanese economy does not equal the Japanese market.
4 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Politics Performance attribution for the The August 30th lower house election brought about the most significant change in year ended 30th September 2009 the Japanese political landscape for decades.
The opposition Democratic Party of %% Japan DPJ swept to a landslide victory pushing aside the Liberal Democratic Party Contributions to total returns LDP.
This is the first time since 1950 that any party other than the LDP has held a Benchmark total return 12.7 majority.
The thirst for change was further demonstrated by a voter turnout that was the highest in thirty years.
The DPJ under Yukio Hatoyama has a strong mandate to Allocation effect 1.0 Stock selection 1.5 push through much needed reforms which could reinvigorate the domestic economy.
Gearing cash 1.0 In the long-term view there is no doubt that it will be a positive if Japan can become a Dividend 0.4 country with two distinct parties offering a real choice to voters.
There is much that is Investment manager laudable within the new ruling partys manifesto, not least a desire to boost domestic contribution 1.9 demand, a realisation that Japans future lies in Asia and a desire to reduce the power Portfolio total return 10.8 of the bureaucracy in favour of greater ministerial accountability.
Management fees Corporate Outlook other expenses 0.8 Share repurchases 0.4 Earnings reported by Japanese companies for the quarter ending in June reflected VAT recovery 0.1 both the stabilisation of the macro environment and also cost cutting undertaken in Other effects 0.3 the first few months of the year.
That they were generally better then expected was a Net asset value total return 10.5 reflection of the fact that in many companies the need to address costs was taken seriously.
The earnings reported by Japanese companies for the quarter to the end of Share price total return 10.3 September have continued to surprise positively as the effects of the pick-up in Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
global trade and in particular the continued strength of the Asian block economies All figures are on a total return basis.
has begun to come through.
As an example, over half of profits at Honda Motor now Performance attribution analyses how come from Asia.
the Company achieved its recorded We can increasingly identify a widening gap between strong and weak companies performance relative to its benchmark.
across much of the market.
Taking the retail sector as an example, the primary A glossary of terms and definitions is dynamic is of persistent deflation.
Within this environment it is vital to provide a value provided on page 54. proposition to consumers.
This business model can only be successful with a low cost base, yet Japanese department stores have singularly failed to bring costs under control while same store sales continue their miserable trend.
There are, however, companies which have aggressively adjusted to the reality of the situation, such as Uniqlo, which are now seeing significant profit growth in Japan which gives it the springboard from which to venture overseas.
There is a similar gap developing amongst those companies focused on export markets.
Some have seen their competitive edge whittled away each year by Asian competition while their balance sheets have steadily weakened.
However, others such as Asahi Glass and Shin-Etsu Chemical, are as competitive as ever and operate in businesses with high barriers to entry.
Japanese companies are also aware of the huge opportunity presented to them by Asia.
Japan is fortunate that by geographic chance it happens to be ideally positioned in one of the worlds fastest developing regions.
The share of Japanese exports to Asia has increased from 25% twenty years ago to 54% today with China the biggest single destination, now surpassing the United States.
The Trust holds positions in a variety of companies that trade on very JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 5 Investment Managers Report continued attractive valuations that play directly to this theme.
35% of sales at Kansai Paint are from Asia, particularly India.
Daihatsu Motor is the number two auto manufacturer in Indonesia behind its partner Toyota.
These two companies together enjoy 50% market share in a country where car ownership is only just beginning to take off.
Companies also see the benefits of moving production to lower cost Asian centres particularly in view of Japans declining population.
For example, consumer electronics maker Funai Electric manufactures entirely in mainland Asia as a result it is at no cost disadvantage versus Chinese, Taiwanese or Korean manufacturers.
Market Outlook The TOPIX index trades on a price to book multiple of below 1.1 times.
This is well below previous cyclical troughs.
Earnings momentum has now clearly inflected and we expect companies with strong fundamentals to be rewarded.
Investor sentiment towards Japan, according to the Merrill Lynch fund manager survey, sits near all-time lows.
It is always darkest before the dawn.
Many Japanese companies have shown themselves adept at dealing with the recent crisis and will and are already emerging stronger as a result.
The outlook for the domestic economy may be somewhat lacklustre and some companies will struggle to cope with competitive pressures from Asia.
However, in aggregate the huge opportunities afforded by Asia outweigh these competitive concerns and the prospects for adding value through stock picking are very exciting.
Sell-side broker coverage of the market has diminished appreciably whilst many money managers have switched to passive strategies in the Japan market.
With the gap between the winner and loser companies in the market becoming ever greater, a bottom-up, fundamental approach should be amply rewarded.
The process at JPMorgan Asset Management focuses on companies that offer a combination of growth at attractive valuations, determined by forward looking measures such as price earnings and cash-flow yield as well as careful consideration of shareholder awareness, determined by measures such as dividend yield.
Furthermore, as a group, we have significant resources on the ground in cities such as Hong Kong, Seoul, Mumbai and Singapore, allowing us to be fully aware of the competitive threats and opportunities for Japanese companies.
The performance of the JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust is our number one concern.
We are encouraged by the recent stabilisation of investment performance and believe that the current market environment presents us with an excellent opportunity to add value in the coming year.
James Elliot Nicholas Weindling Investment Managers 20th November 2009 6 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
