Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended The Company does not normally invest in unquoted 30th September 2009. investments and to do so requires prior Board approval.
Business Review The Companys gearing policy is to operate within a range Business of the Company of 95% to 115% invested in normal market conditions.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and 30th September 2009: 107.6%.
was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment The Company does not normally enter into derivative trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30th September 30th September 2009: None.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under assets in other UK listed investment companies and will not Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 invest more than 10% of its gross assets in companies that each year.
themselves may invest more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
Approval for the year ended 30th September 2008 would be subject to review should there be any subsequent enquiry As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of acquisition.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and close company for taxation purposes.
guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Company registration number is 223583.
Performance A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in In the year ended 30th September 2009, the Company the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 and in the produced a total return to shareholders of 10.3% and a total Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 7. return on net assets of 10.5%.
This compares with the return Objective on the Companys benchmark of 12.7% As at 30th September The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from 2009, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was investments in Japanese companies by long term 339.7 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 4 outperformance of the Companys benchmark index, the Tokyo to 7 includes a review of developments during the year as Stock Exchange 1st Section Index TOPIX expressed in sterling well as information on investment activity within the terms.
Investment Policies and Risk Management Total Return, Revenue and Dividends In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to Gross total return for the year amounted to 31.2 million manage risk, the Company invests in a diversified portfolio of 2008: 119.8 million loss and net total return after deducting quoted Japanese companies.
The number of investments in the interest, management expenses, and taxation amounted to portfolio will normally range between 80 and 150.
Distributable income Company makes use of both long and short term borrowings to for the year amounted to 5.1 million 2008: 5.2 million.
The increase returns and focusses on first hand company research Directors have declared a dividend of 2.8p per share 2008: and analysis.
This dividend will absorb 4.8 million and the revenue reserve after allowing for the dividend will amount to Investment Restrictions and Guidelines 1.1 million.
The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various investment limits and restrictions: Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and The Company must maintain 97.5% of investments in assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Japanese securities or securities providing an indirect investment in Japan.
Performance against the benchmark This is the most important KPI by which performance is No investment to be more than 5% in excess of benchmark judged.
weighting at time of purchase.
JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 15 Directors Report continued Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended Performance Relative to Benchmark Index 30th September 2009 are given in the Investment Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th September 1999 Managers Report on page 5.
140 Share price discount to net asset value NAV The Board has a share repurchase programme which seeks 120 to address imbalances in supply of and demand for the Companys shares within the market.
This minimises the 100 volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in the 80 sector.
In the year to 30th September 2009, the shares traded between a discount of 23.7% and 12.6%.
JPMorgan Japanese Net asset value.
-5 The benchmark index is represented by the grey horizontal line.
80 60 Total expense ratio TER The TER represents the Companys management fees and 40 all other operating expenses excluding interest and VAT 20 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 recoverable, expressed as a percentage of the average of Source: Morningstar Datastream.
the opening and closing net assets.
The TER for the year JPMorgan Japanese Share price.
The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a Benchmark.
comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Performance against the Companys peers Share Capital The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative During the year the Company repurchased 4,150,841 ordinary to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the shares for cancellation, representing 2.4% of the Companys performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
issued share capital at the beginning of the financial year, for Performance attribution a consideration of 5,878,000.
Since the end of the financial The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to year, the Company has repurchased a further 3,795,000 assess how the Company achieved its performance relative ordinary shares for cancellation for a consideration of to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the 5,456,000.
Companys relative performance of the various A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares will components such as stock and sector allocation.
be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
16 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 The Company did not issue any new shares during the year.
by JPMAM and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the provisions The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.8p 2008: 2.8p of the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on per share payable on 19th December 2009 to holders on the the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
register at the close of business on 21st November 2009.
A breach of the Companies Act could result in the Company Principal Risks and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules may result in risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
the Companys shares being suspended from listing which These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: in turn would breach Section 842.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, and its Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment professional advisers to ensure compliance with The strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of Companies Act 2006 and The UKLA Listing Rules.
gearing, may lead to under-performance against the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification best practice, including information on relations with of investments through its investment restrictions and shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance guidelines which are monitored and reported by the report on pages 21 to 24.
JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs accounting, accurate management information, including performance dealing or payments systems or the custodians records may data and attribution analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board implementation and results of the investment process with monitors the services provided by JPMAM and its associates the Investment Managers, who attend all Board meetings, and the key elements designed to provide effective internal and reviews data which shows statistical measures of the control are included within the Internal Control section of Companys risk profile.
The Investment Manager employ the Corporate Governance report on page 23. the Companys gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
The Board holds a separate meeting Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company are devoted to strategy each year.
disclosed in note 20 on pages 40 to 46.
Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the Future Developments future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents The future development of the Company is dependent upon the potential loss the Company might suffer through the success of the Companys investment strategy in the light of holding investments in the face of negative market economic and equity market developments.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock Manager discusses the outlook in his report on pages 4 to 6. selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has set investment restrictions and guidelines which are Management of the Company monitored and reported on by JPMAM.
The Board monitors JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited is employed as the implementation and results of the Investment process Manager and secretary to the Company under a contract with the Investment Managers.
terminable on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, an investment trust, the Company must comply with the balance of remuneration is payable by way of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 compensation.
Details of the Companys approval are given JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank under Business of the Company above.
Should the which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Company breach Section 842, it may lose investment trust dealing and custodian services to the Company.
status and as a consequence gains within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of Section 842 qualification criteria are continually monitored JPMAM in the course of the year.
The review covered the JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 17 Directors Report continued performance of the Manager, its management processes, Directors investment style, resources and risk controls.
The Board is of The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the the opinion that the continuing appointment of the Manager is year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys in the interests of shareholders.
Such a review is carried out on shares are shown below: an annual basis.
1st October With effect from 1st December 2007, the Board and the 2008 Manager agreed that day-to-day investment management 30th September or at date of activity would be conducted in Tokyo by Jardine Fleming Asset 2009 appointment Management, a part of JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Alan Barber 5,300 5,300 Management Fee Andrew Fleming 1,500 1,500 Jeremy Paulson-Ellis 1,500 1,500 The fixed basic annual management fee, negotiated in 2005, is David Pearson 1,693 1,693 a sliding scale based on the Companys net assets.
Keith Percy 1,500 1,500 Net assets First 465 million 465 million to Over 930 million under 930 million under under No changes in the above holdings have been notified by any management management management Director between the year end and the date of this report.
Fee level 0.65% 0.485% 0.40% In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the The management fee includes a contribution towards JPMAMs Directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual general marketing and client administration costs.
General Meeting will be Andrew Fleming and Keith Percy.
If the Company invests in funds managed or advised by Jeremy Paulson-Ellis, having been a Director for more than JPMAM, or any of its associated companies, those investments nine years, also stands for re-election.
are excluded from the calculation of the fixed basic annual An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which management fee.
indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no Going Concern cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
The Directors believe that having considered the Companys investment objective see page 15, risk management policies Disclosure of information to Auditors see pages 40 to 46, capital management policies and In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the procedures see page 46, the nature of the portfolio and Company at the time when this report was approved: expenditure projections that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant management arrangements in place to continue in operational audit information as defined in the Companies Act of existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they which the Companys auditors are unaware, and consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to Payment Policy establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all information.
business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on accordance with the provision of Section 418 2 of the which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to Companies Act 2006. abide by these terms.
As at 30th September 2009, the Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2008: Nil.
18 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Section 992 Companies Act 2006 you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and 992 Companies Act 2006.
Capital Structure Resolutions relating to the following item of special business The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: front cover of this report.
i Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory preVoting Rights in the Companys shares emption rights resolutions 8 and 9 Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the Annual date of this report are given in note 15 to the Notice of AGM on General Meeting to issue up to 8,302,800 new ordinary shares page 50. for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,075,700 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights such amount being equivalent to 5% of the present issued At the date of this report, the following had declared a share capital.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Notice of Meeting on pages 48 and 49.
Shareholders Number of shares held % It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing Lazard Asset Management 20,636,289 12.1 shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to 1607 Capital Partners 14,335,047 8.4 other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best J. P. Morgan Asset Management 7,386,559 4.3 interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they Legal & General 6,820,390 4.0 increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of administrative expenses, other than the management fee Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
Companies Act 2006. ii Authority to repurchase the Companys Shares resolution 10 There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys in the Company: no special rights with regard to control issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2008 attached to securities: no agreements between holders of Annual General Meeting, will expire on 17th June 2010 unless securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
agreements which the Company is party to that affect its The Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the interests of shareholders as a whole as the repurchase of the Company and its directors concerning compensation for shares at a discount to their underlying net asset value NAV loss of office.
would enhance the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of this Independent Auditors resolution.
Begbies Chettle Agar have expressed their willingness to The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a resolution on pages 48 and 49.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion proposing their re-appointment, and to authorise the Directors of the Board, and will only be made in the market at prices to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be below the prevailing net asset value per share as and when put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting iii Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 11 The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR These incorporate amendments to the current articles of IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action association to reflect the changes in company law brought JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2009 19 Directors Report continued about by the 2006 Companies Act the Act which came into deemed to form part of the Companys articles under section 28 effect on 1st October 2009 and changes made to the 2006 Act of the 2006 Act, from its articles.
in August 2009 to implement the EU Shareholder Rights For a more detailed explanation of these and other Directive in the UK, as well as some minor technical or amendments please refer to the Appendix to this document on clarifying changes.
The principal changes in the new articles of association A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed proposed to be adopted at the 2009 AGM relate to shareholder new Articles of Association will be available for inspection meetings and resolutions, the Companys constitution and during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public share capital.
holidays excepted at the offices of JPMorgan Asset In August 2009, changes were made to the provisions in the Management UK Limited, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, 2006 Act on company meetings by The Companies London EC2Y 9AQ from the date of this report up until the close Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 Shareholders Rights of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at Trinity House, Tower Regulations to implement the EU Shareholder Rights Directive Hill, London EC3N 4DH, being the place of the Annual General in the UK.
The new articles incorporate amendments in relation Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting to meetings to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act as amended by the Shareholders Rights Regulations.
Recommendation Under the 2006 Act all provisions of the Companys The Board considers that resolutions 8 to 11 are likely to memorandum, but most significantly the objects clause, are promote the success of the Company and are in the best deemed to form part of the Companys articles from 1st October interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
It is possible for the objects clause to be removed or Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of amended by amending the articles by special resolution.
It is not the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own necessary under the 2006 Act for a company to set out its beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 11,493 shares objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, unless the articles state representing approximately 0.01% of the voting rights of the otherwise, a companys objects will be unrestricted.
One of the other key provisions of the memorandum which is deemed to form part of the Companys articles from 1st October By order of the Board 2009 is the restriction created by the existing authorised share AK Norman, for and on behalf of capital statement.
The 2006 Act removes the requirement for a JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, company to place limits on its authorised share capital.
Secretary By adopting the new articles which do not contain the objects 20th November 2009 clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be 20 JPMorgan Japanese Investment Trust plc.
