Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which includes this Directors report and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2009.
The Directors report incorporates by reference, to the extent indicated below, certain information included in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and should be read in conjunction with that document.
Principal activity and business review The principal activity of the Group is providing value-added distribution and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Financial review and the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 4 to 15 and 17 to 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and in the section below entitled Principal risks and uncertainties.
The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out in the form of bar graphs on pages 6, 7, 17 and 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
The Group has specific policies and procedures which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate business risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties include the following: RISK MITIGATING FACTORS Economic environment The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with a conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient to effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
Competitive pressures The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high service levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs competition from international companies as well as national, regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing a national presence in the markets in which the Group operates and maintaining competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Groups strong relationships with a variety of different suppliers thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of products to its customers.
Product price changes The purchase price and availability of products distributed by the Group The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price increases can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results from its suppliers to its customers and to source its products from a of operations.
Adverse economic conditions resulting in a period of number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one commodity price deflation and increased levels of imported products source of supply for any particular product.
Increased focus on the may lead to reductions in the price and value of the Groups products.
Groups own import programmes and brands, together with the If this were to occur, the Groups revenue and, as a result, its profits, reinforcement of Bunzls service and product offering to customers, could be reduced and the value of inventory held in stock may not be helps to minimise the impact of price deflation.
The Group mitigates against the risk of holding overvalued inventory in a deflationary environment by managing stock levels efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
Foreign exchange The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned Bunzl believes that the benefits of its geographical spread outweigh the associated risks.
in US dollars and other foreign currencies.
As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the Groups reported results.
The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the functional Bunzl may also be subject to transaction exposures where products are purchased in one currency and sold in another and movements currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, transaction exposures are usually limited and exchange rate fluctuations have minimal effect in exchange rates may also adversely affect the value of the Groups net assets.
on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and significant adverse movement of a foreign currency in which products are purchased which may lead to a delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
Acquisitions A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been achieved The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups growth strategy which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive includes additional acquisitions.
Although the Group operates in a number advantage and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group of fragmented markets which provide future acquisition opportunities, continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to make acquisitions and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence in the future or that any acquisitions made will be successful.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report 01 Directors report continued RISK MITIGATING FACTORS Financial liquidity and debt covenants The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth and to make and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due and acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise.
There is a risk that Bunzl may be unable to obtain the necessary funds when required or that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups requirements in the short, medium and long term.
that such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and monthly basis based on the management accounts.
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact interest cover.
A breach of these covenants could result in a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming repayable immediately.
Business continuity The Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of its The Group seeks to reduce this risk through the use of multi-site major distribution facilities or information systems.
facilities with products stocked in more than one location and the adoption of detailed back up plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
Laws and regulations The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to potential Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious market sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and mitigate claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance and quality control procedures reduce the risks associated with defective products.
to the supply of defective products or breaches of their contractual arrangements.
The sourcing of products from lower cost countries increases the risk of the Group being unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
The Financial review on pages 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
The Internal control and risk management section of the Corporate governance report on page 8 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
Going concern to assess their impact on covenants and net debt.
During 2009 all As indicated in the section above entitled Principal activity and covenants have been complied with and based on current forecasts it business review, details of the Groups activities, developments is expected that such covenants will continue to be complied with for and performance are set out in the Annual Review and Summary the foreseeable future.
In addition, information relating to the financial performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group is set out The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, in the Financial review on pages 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse Summary Financial Statement.
Note 13 to the consolidated financial geographic presence.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the statements includes the details of the Groups debt profile, capital Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite management policy, treasury policies and controls, hedging activities the current uncertain economic outlook.
and financial instruments and its policies and exposures to liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
to do so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources.
At 31 December 2009 the Group had net debt of 716.8 million and Dividends undrawn committed facilities of 541.1 million.
During the next 12 An interim dividend of 6.65p was paid on 4 January 2010 in respect months 160.0 million of the committed facilities mature and thereafter of 2009 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 14.9p, making the facilities will mature at various times over the period up to May a total for the year of 21.55p per share 2008: 20.6p.
The Group is highly cash generative and its cash flows have are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject historically been strong, converting 102% of the operating profit before to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on intangible amortisation into operating cash in 2009.
Compliance with 21 April 2010, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2010 to those the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 May 2010 and sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts other than those electing for the scrip dividend alternative.
02 Directors report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Share capital Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register 1 into ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect an instrument of transfer of a certificated share at its discretion unless of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, it is: are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary lodged, duly stamped, at the offices of the Companys registrars Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which or such other place as the Board may specify and is accompanied the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other the form of American Depositary receipts.
evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
in respect of only one class of shares: and Rights and obligations attaching to shares in favour of not more than four transferees.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company In addition, no instrument of transfer shall be registered if the transferor may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights has been served with a disenfranchisement notice as defined in the and restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such Companys current Articles of Association the Articles after failure resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board to provide the Company with information concerning certain interests may decide.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and in the Companys shares required to be provided under the Companies of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto, the Board Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or otherwise an arms length sale.
Registration of a transfer of shares may also be dispose of the Companys shares on such terms and conditions and refused in the case of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set at such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share capital of the out in the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Board Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days to any class may be varied or abrogated either with the written consent a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Board cannot of the holders of three quarters of the issued shares of the class excluding suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares treasury shares or by special resolution passed at a separate general without gaining consent from CREST.
Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached to shares will be deemed to be varied by the Restrictions on voting rights reduction of capital paid up on the shares and by the allotment of A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or further shares ranking in priority in respect of dividend or capital or class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other which confer on the holders more favourable voting rights than the firstsum then payable in respect of their shares remains unpaid.
Currently, mentioned shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied by all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled the creation or issue of further shares.
to vote if he has been served with a disenfranchisement notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain Power to issue and allot shares interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the the Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or by authority granted at the 2009 Annual General Meeting to allot shares proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 35.6 million.
forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll At the same meeting authority was also granted to the directors to allot is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded the Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is of approximately 5.6 million, without regard to the pre-emption not taken straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
No such shares were issued was demanded.
or allotted under these authorities in 2009, nor is there any current intention to do so, other than in connection with the Companys Bunzl Group Employee Benefit Trust employee share schemes and scrip dividend scheme.
Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect of These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in similar authorities in 2010 subject to certain updating amendments respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to receive a nominal to reflect the Companies Act 2006 and changes to institutional dividend of 0.001p per share on dividend payments on shares held investor guidelines.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Restrictions on transfer of shares Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report 03 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Mr P G Rogerson was appointed to the Board in January 2010 and, At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company being eligible, offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual authority to purchase a maximum of 32,705,000 ordinary shares.
General Meeting in accordance with the Articles and the Combined During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Company did not Code on Corporate Governance.
Mr A J Habgood retired from the purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the Board on 30 June 2009.
All of the other current directors served authority granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and no shares throughout the year.
Mr J F Harris will retire from the Board on have been purchased between 31 December 2009 and 22 February 28 February 2010.
The total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury is 23,325,000.
The Company is therefore currently authorised to Mr M J Roney and Dr U Wolters retire by rotation at the Annual General buy back 32,705,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing Meeting in accordance with the Articles and the Combined Code shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the on Corporate Governance and, being eligible, offer themselves for forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to re-election.
Biographical details of the current directors are set out seek the equivalent authority at this years Annual General Meeting.
on page 16 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Directors Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to the Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was materially general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of minimum number of directors shall be two and there shall be no its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2009.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company relating to the directors service agreements and their remuneration a minimum of one third of the directors shall retire and, assuming they for the year and details of the directors share options under the wish to stand, offer themselves for re-election.
The directors to retire Companys share option schemes and awards under the Long Term will be those who held office at the two preceding Annual General Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out Meetings and who did not retire at either of them.
If the number of in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 60. directors so retiring is less than the minimum number required to retire, additional directors up to that number will also retire.
The additional Powers of the directors directors to retire will be determined by those who have been longest Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions in office since they were last elected or, if they were elected on the given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the same day, those to retire will be determined by lot.
The Board may also Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers of the appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill Company.
The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint a vacancy or as an additional director.
However such appointee shall any person or persons to be the agent or agents of the Company for only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
and shall not be taken into account in determining the directors who are to retire by rotation.
Directors indemnities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company by company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of a director from office before the expiration of his period of office under subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the the Articles.
Articles in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles if: officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law Amendment of Articles or pursuant to the Articles or he becomes prohibited by law from being Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the a director: provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Following the implementation of the he becomes bankrupt or enters into any arrangement or composition Companies Act 2006 and the Shareholder Rights Directive in 2009, with his creditors generally: the directors propose to adopt new Articles of Association at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, details of which are set out in a separate letter he is or may be suffering from mental ill health and he is either from the Chairman to shareholders.
admitted to hospital or a court order is made appointing a person to exercise powers with respect to his property or affairs: Environmental and social responsibility The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider community he resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the by all the other directors who are not less than three in number: or environment and social and community issues.
Further information relating to the Companys approach to these matters is set out in the he is absent without permission from Board meetings for a period Corporate social responsibility report on pages 20 to 23 of the Annual of six months and the Board resolves that his office be vacated.
Review and Summary Financial Statement.
04 Directors report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Employment policies Donations The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet During 2009, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which contributed 210,000 to UK charities 2008: 200,000.
No contributions they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
were made for political purposes.
The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects all its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its Annual General Meeting employees in the performance of the business in which they are The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday addition to a regular magazine and the Companys intranet, which 21 April 2010 at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Meeting is set provide a variety of information on activities and developments within out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which the Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, explains the items of special business.
announcements are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary or business External auditors area publications dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as rehabilitation and training.
a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware Substantial shareholdings of that information.
As at 22 February 2010 the directors have been notified by the following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more of the issued This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed below are those with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. which have been most recently received for the named shareholders.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Date of Number % of issued Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Shareholder notification of shares share capital Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
INVESCO plc 26.11.09 38,900,970 11.9 On behalf of the Board Aviva plc 27.01.10 20,500,832 6.3 Legal & General Group Plc 12.11.09 13,069,891 4.0 P N Hussey Newton Investment Secretary Management Ltd 25.07.08 13,113,028 4.0 22 February 2010 Significant agreements Pages 1 to 5 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon has a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in counterparties, all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the restrictions provided by such law.
lender in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and the in the syndicated bank loan and the 2008 and 2009 US dollar bonds Directors Report and Accounts contain certain statements about the which have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes that the and are also guaranteed by the Company.
expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any statements about future outlook may be influenced by factors that could cause Contractual arrangements actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities, none of which are considered individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Groups business to disclose information about any of those third parties.
Creditor payment policy Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers outstanding at the end of the year was 30 2008: 31.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report 05
