SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activity and business review Biographical details of the current directors ended 31 December 2009 and up to the date of The principal activity of the Group is providing are set out on page 16. approval of these financial statements and have value added distribution and outsourcing been reviewed during the year.
services in the Americas, Europe and Directors interests in ordinary shares are Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, shown in Note 19 to the consolidated financial The directors also confirm that they have developments and performance for the year, the statements in the Directors Report and reviewed the effectiveness of the system of main trends and factors likely to affect its future Accounts.
None of the directors was materially internal control in operation during 2009. development and performance and information interested in any contract of significance which fulfils the requirements of the Companies with the Company or any of its subsidiary Annual General Meeting Act 2006 relating to the production of a undertakings during or at the end of 2009.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at business review are set out in the Chairmans The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, statement, the Chief Executives review, the Dividends London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 21 April 2010 Financial review and the Corporate social An interim dividend of 6.65p was paid on at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Meeting responsibility report on pages 4 to 15 and 17 4 January 2010 in respect of 2009 and is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman to 23 and in the section entitled Principal risks the directors recommend a final dividend of to shareholders which explains the items of and uncertainties set out in the full Directors 14.9p, making a total for the year of 21.55p special business.
report included within the Directors Report per share.
This compares with 20.6p per share and Accounts.
for the year ended 31 December 2008.
External auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Going concern Corporate governance forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the The directors, having made appropriate The Company is committed to high standards re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that of corporate governance.
The Company of the Company at a rate of remuneration to the Group has adequate resources to continue confirms that it has complied throughout 2009 be determined by the directors.
in operational existence for the foreseeable with the provisions of the Combined Code on future.
For this reason, the directors believe Corporate Governance.
P N Hussey it is appropriate to continue to adopt the Secretary going concern basis in preparing the Directors indemnities 22 February 2010 financial statements.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed Purchase of own shares to indemnify the directors and the Company During the year ended 31 December 2009 the Secretary, in addition to other senior executives Company did not purchase any of its own who are directors of subsidiaries of the shares pursuant to the shareholder authorities Company, to the extent permitted by law and granted at the 2008 and 2009 Annual General the Articles in respect of all losses arising out Meetings.
As at 22 February 2010 the Company of or in connection with the execution of their held a total of 23,325,000 shares in treasury.
powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any Directors of its subsidiaries.
Mr P G Rogerson was appointed to the Board in January 2010 and, being eligible, Internal control and risk management offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming The directors acknowledge that they have overall Annual General Meeting in accordance with responsibility for identifying and managing the the Companys Articles of Association the risks faced by the Group and for the Groups Articles and the Combined Code on Corporate system of internal control relating to those risks.
Mr A J Habgood retired from However, such a system is designed to manage the Board on 30 June 2009.
All of the other rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve current directors served throughout the year.
business objectives and can only provide Mr J F Harris will retire from the Board on reasonable and not absolute assurance against 28 February 2010. material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has Mr M J Roney and Dr U Wolters retire by established the procedures necessary to ensure rotation at the Annual General Meeting in that there is an ongoing process for identifying, accordance with the Articles and the Combined evaluating and managing significant risks to the Code on Corporate Governance and, being Group.
The directors confirm that such eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
procedures have been in place for the year 24 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2009
