DIRECTORS Report The directors present their Annual Report together with the Details of the directors service agreements are given in the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2009.
Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters on page 66. Business review Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report a Directors share interests fair review of the business of the Group during the year to Interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2009 in 31 March 2009 and of the position of the Group at the end of the shares of the Company are shown within the Report on the financial year and a description of the principal risks and Directors Remuneration and related matters on page 71.
There uncertainties facing the Group known as a business review.
were no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors The purpose of the business review is to enable shareholders between the period 31 March 2009 and 18 May 2009. to assess how the directors have performed their duty under Share capital section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with success of the company.
The Strategy and Group Overview details of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry sections on pages 15 to 33 and the Business and Financial Group plc during the year are shown in note 21 which is Review on pages 34 to 44 report on the activities and results incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of this report.
for the year and give an indication of the Companys future developments.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is set out The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no on pages 48 to 52.
A description of the principal risks and right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 45 to 47. general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed The sections of the Annual Report referred to above, fulfil the on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
requirements of the Business Review and are incorporated by In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company proposes reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Principal activities Annual General Meeting in 2008, to repurchase up to just under Burberry Group plc is a holding company.
The Group designs, 10% of its issued share capital.
Further details are provided in sources, manufactures and distributes luxury mens, womens the separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice and childrens clothing and non-apparel accessories globally of this years Annual General Meeting.
through its own retail stores, concessions, online and to At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, shareholders approved wholesale customers and franchisees.
Burberry also licenses a resolution to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the 72,000.
In addition, shareholders approved a resolution to give Burberry trademarks.
directors authority to allot shares for cash other than pro rata to Revenue and loss existing shareholders.
Resolutions will be proposed at this years Revenue during the period amounted to 1,201.5m Annual General Meeting to renew these authorities.
The attributable loss for the year was 6.0m Following the report of the Rights Issues Review Group and the 2008: profit of 135.2m.
subsequent guidance from the Association of British Insurers Dividends ABI, the Company intends to ask shareholders to grant The directors recommend that a final dividend of 8.65p authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of per ordinary share 2008: 8.65p in respect of the year to 144,000 for use in a rights issue only.
If the additional allotment 31 March 2009 be paid on 30 July 2009 to those persons authority were to be used, the ABI guidance would be followed on the Register of Members as at 3 July 2009. and, if appropriate, all directors would retire at the next Annual General Meeting and would offer themselves for re-election.
An interim dividend of 3.35p per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 29 January 2009.
This will make a total The directors have no current plans to issue shares other than dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share in respect of the financial in connection with employee share schemes.
The aggregate dividends paid and There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding nor on recommended in respect of the year to 31 March 2009 the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general total 51.7m.
provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Directors The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders The names and biographical details of the directors holding of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the office at the date of this report are set out on page 55 and transfer of securities or voting rights.
are incorporated by reference into this report.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26.
At the 2009 Annual General Meeting, Angela Ahrendts, The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends Stephanie George and David Tyler will retire by rotation in payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares accordance with Article 81 of the Articles of Association and, held by it.
In addition, the Burberry Group plc SIP Trust has being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary shares held by it.
The separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out why the Board The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2009 were believes these directors should be re-elected.
56 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 DIRECTORS Report CONTINUED No person has any special rights of control over the Companys Employment policies share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to ensuring the consistent profitable With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, growth of its business and a policy of equal opportunity the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the in employment is integral to this commitment.
The aims of Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
the Groups policy are to ensure that the most capable job The Articles of Association may be amended by special applicants are recruited and the most competent employees resolution of the shareholders.
All employees will receive fair and equal Substantial shareholdings treatment irrespective of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, As at 18 May 2009, the Company had been notified of the marital status, age, religion, disability and sexual orientation.
following interests in the Companys ordinary shares in In the situation where an employee becomes disabled, the accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Group will endeavour to assist the employee by adapting the job if appropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
Number of % of total ordinary shares voting rights Health and safety Blackrock Inc 43,045,926 9.94% The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board Schroders Plc 36,760,709 8.49% and a Worldwide Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by the Executive Vice President - Chief Financial Officer.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 25,720,195 5.94% Further information regarding the Groups employment policies Capital Research and are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages Management Company 22,839,300 5.27% 48 to 52.
Franklin Resources Inc Employee involvement and affiliates 21,980,778 5.07% Employee communication JPMorgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.98% The Group believes that employee communication is important FMR Corp 18,315,823 4.23% in building strong relationships with, and in motivating and retaining, employees.
The Group makes use of various methods, Legal and General Group plc 17,296,785 3.99% all of which are implemented globally, including, face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums with senior management, Interests in own shares email and a corporate intranet to ensure that matters of interest Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and out in note 21 to the financial statements.
In addition, global quarterly updates which highlight Charitable donations the Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives are During the year to 31 March 2009, the Group donated 1.1m webcast globally.
2008: 0.4m for the benefit of charitable causes.
These Employee share ownership donations principally comprised cash.
Further information The Group recognises the importance of good relationships regarding the charitable donations made during the year with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes and are contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on share ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
Further pages 51 and 52. details of these schemes are set out in the Report on Directors Political donations Remuneration and related matters on pages 64 to 71.
Employees The Company made no political donations during the year in line in the UK, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Spain and with its policy.
In keeping with the Companys approach in prior Taiwan have access to all-employee share plan arrangements.
years, shareholder approval is being sought at the forthcoming Further details on the Groups approach to employee involvement Annual General Meeting, as a precautionary measure, for the and communications are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Company and its subsidiaries to make donations and or incur Report on page 50. expenditure which may be construed as political by the wide definition of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further Financial instruments details are provided in the separate circular to shareholders The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies incorporating the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
are set out within note 25 to the financial statements on pages 108 to 110.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure to foreign Valuation of properties exchange, price, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes Based on a valuation report prepared by Colliers Conrad are incorporated by reference and are deemed to form part of Ritblat Erdman, dated 16 May 2006, the existing use value of this report.
Burberrys nine most significant freehold properties is 179.6m based on closing exchange rates at 31 March 2009.
This valuation is higher than the net book value of these assets.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09 57 DIRECTORS Report CONTINUED Creditor payment policy Auditors For all trade creditors, it is policy to: In accordance with section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Companys directors in office as at the date of this agree and confirm the terms of payment at the report confirms that: commencement of business with that supplier so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit pay in accordance with contractual and other information of which the Companys auditors are unaware legal obligations he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have continually review the payment procedures and liaise taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties of any relevant audit information and to establish that the and maintaining a good working relationship Companys auditors are aware of that information The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2009 The Groups auditors are  LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Significant contracts change of control auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Annual General Meeting.
directors disclose that in the event of a change of control in Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors fees the Company, the Groups 200m Revolving Credit Facility both for audit and non-audit work.
dated 16 March 2009 and the Groups Bi-lateral Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facilities totalling 60m dated 13 June 2008 Going concern could become repayable.
The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
These include the assumptions around the Groups In circumstances of change of control of the Company, Angela products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her entitlement in flows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into account reasonably respect of remuneration is set out on page 66 of the Report on possible changes in trading performance, and after making Directors Remuneration and related matters where Burberry enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that terminates her service agreement in circumstances where the the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Remuneration Committee determines that Angela Ahrendts existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they consider it performance does not meet the financial expectations of the is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Board or shareholders.
In circumstances where the Companys shares cease to be Further information regarding the Groups cash flow and listed, Stacey Cartwright may terminate her employment on borrowing facilities can be found on page 44 of the Business three months notice and would be entitled to her base salary and Financial Review.
for a period of nine months following termination.
Annual General Meeting Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at set out on page 66 of the Report on Directors Remuneration and the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London, related matters.
Copies of the executive and non-executive EC1Y 8YY commencing at 9.30am on Thursday, 16 July 2009. directors service contracts are available for inspection by The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting is included in shareholders at the Companys registered office and at the the separate circular to shareholders.
The Notice is available Annual General Meeting.
to view under the Shareholder Information section of the The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may Companys website www.
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest By order of the Board upon a change of control.
Michael Mahony Essential contracts General Counsel and Secretary The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with 18 May 2009 suppliers both of goods and services, wholesale customers, licensees, who manufacture and distribute products using the Registered Office: Burberry trademarks, and franchisees.
In addition, the Group Horseferry House occupies leasehold premises for the purpose of conducting Horseferry Road its business.
Whilst these arrangements are important to the London SW1P 2AW business of the Group, individually none of them are essential to the business of the Group.
58 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2008 09
