STRATEGY Brand and Business From its founding in 1856 when Thomas Burberry The Group management and their teams are challenged constructed his first outerwear garments for the with the responsibility of maintaining the integrity and sportsmen of Basingstoke, England, Burberry has vitality of this extraordinary brand while continuing become a leading luxury brand with a global business.
to develop a business which remains relevant to ever-evolving markets and consumer tastes.
The The Burberry brand is dened by its: following pages outline Burberrys strategy under Authentic British heritage each of its five key strategic themes: Unique democratic positioning within the Leveraging the franchise luxury arena Intensifying non-apparel development Founding principles of quality, function and modern Accelerating retail-led growth classic style, rooted in the integrity of its outerwear Investing in under-penetrated markets Globally recognised icon portfolio: the trench coat, trademark check and Prorsum horse logo Pursuing operational excellence Today, the business built upon this brand is distinguished by: Multi-category competency: womenswear, menswear, non-apparel and childrenswear with innovative outerwear as the foundation Channel expertise in retail including e-commerce, wholesale and licensing Global reach: operations in markets throughout the world, with a balance across major geographic regions A unied, passionate and seasoned management team 15 STRATEGY leveraging the franchise Through more coordinated use of brand assets and greater integration of its global organisation, Burberry has the opportunity to enhance consumer responsiveness and operate more efficiently and effectively.
This potential lies in both the front end and back-of-house operations.
The front end comprises everything the consumer Capitalising on menswear opportunity.
For most sees from products to marketing imagery to stores.
of its history, menswear dominated Burberrys sales.
Key highlights for 2008 09 include: While womenswear took the lead during the brands revitalisation over the last decade, Burberry sees Maintaining brand momentum.
Consistent substantial opportunity to develop its menswear projection of Burberrys distinctive luxury message business.
During 2008 09, menswear continued across all mediums is a core objective.
In December its transition from legacy product licences, 2008, the Group relocated to a new global strengthened its tailoring offering and enhanced headquarters in central London.
Designed internally, dedicated marketing initiatives.
the building is a comprehensive expression of the Burberry brand for customers, partners Building childrenswear.
Currently a small business and employees.
for Burberry, the Group believes the highly fragmented childrenswear sector offers substantial Reinforcing outerwear heritage and leadership.
opportunity for the brand in all markets.
From its As the brands dening category, outerwear initial operation, the childrenswear team continued innovation remains the top product priority.
to develop a global product assortment and build In 2008 09, Burberry continued to intensify the required organisation.
Childrenswear revenue under-developed outerwear segments.
In increased over 50% in the year and the Group womenswear, for example, the Group took its began testing dedicated childrenswear stores.
packable trench coat strategy to scale through the creation and retail presentation of a full range Enhancing marketing.
The continuous enhancement of colours and styles.
In menswear, the team of marketing and PR functions is a key objective intensied focus on the more modern, tted and of the Group.
In the year, Burberry intensied efforts higher fashion segment of its business.
in the rapidly evolving digital arena through a reallocation of media spend and added dedicated Further reshaping the product pyramid.
continues to create clear distinctions between its Prorsum runway, London Collection wear to work Optimising licensing.
Through its licensing and Lifestyle wear at weekend lines.
During operations, Burberry leverages its brand 2008 09, the Burberry Beat check was launched management, design and marketing expertise in as a key branding platform for the London Collection categories requiring the specialised skills of partners.
Within Lifestyle, Burberry continued to The Group has global product licences for the contemporise the assortment, through further fragrance, eyewear and watch categories.
Following development of Burberry Sport and building the successful launch of Burberry The Beat for a core denim programme.
Women last year, the successful launch of Burberry The Beat for Men commenced in the second half of 2008 09.
16 STRATEGY leveraging the franchise The back-of-house operations comprise the KPI: Total revenue growth measures the appeal of infrastructure and functional components required the brand to consumers, be it through Burberry stores or for the success of Burberrys front end.
Burberry applies those of its department store or specialty retail customers.
the expertise from one area of its operations to others in order to optimise performance.
In 2008 09, Burberry began to modernise functions in Spain in line with actions 2009 1,202 7% taken in the Groups central operations during 2008 995 18% the previous two years.
Core to this has been 2007 850 15% restructuring the local supply chain.
During the Year to March millions year, Spain began transition from a sourcing base Retail Wholesale Licensing dominated by small, single function suppliers to Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates large, vertically integrated resources a transition the Group has made centrally since 2006.
In 2008 09, in challenging and volatile markets, Burberrys revenue was 1,202m a 7% underlying increase on the previous year.
Sales through the retail channel increased by 14%, in wholesale by 2%, while licensing declined by 9%.
18 STRATEGY Intensifying non-apparel development Intensify, focus on and invest in under-penetrated non-apparel categories to further leverage Burberrys unique positioning, design and merchandising expertise and iconic branding through investment in product development, marketing and supply chain.
Non-apparel was again Burberrys fastest growing Partnership buy.
Burberry initiated its partnership product division in 2008 09, and yet still offers buy model for non-apparel with the Autumn Winter substantial room for further growth given Burberrys 2009 season.
The partnership buy is a new, more relatively low market share in certain categories.
collaborative approach to assortment development in which Burberrys regional buying teams work Handbags.
In response to a consumer shift toward directly with central design teams throughout the a more timeless aesthetic, Burberry rebalanced the product development process.
The models primary fashion heritage mix of its handbag assortment.
objectives are to enhance efficiency through reduced This included innovative interpretations of iconic development expenses and sourcing leverage, branding, as well as new and elevated expressions increase retail sell-through with more targeted of classic styles.
purchasing and consistency of brand statements Shoes.
Shoes grew strongly in 2008 09 based on across geographic regions.
the previous investment in design, technical product Japanese non-apparel joint venture.
Burberry expertise and supply chain functions.
Through the continues to evolve the non-apparel business year, the team has continued to build out the model in Japan, which to date has been primarily complete product pyramid while developing core operated by licence partners focusing on a domestic, items to drive the growth of this category.
Although currently a small Burberry entered into a joint venture agreement category for Burberry, the Group believes this is a to develop the retail distribution of Burberrys key area of opportunity.
Burberry continues to build international luxury accessories in Japan.
The on this opportunity through expanding the product organisation has been established and plans to offering, including testing luggage.
Non-apparel categories KPI: Growth in non-apparel revenue measures the continued to receive marketing and PR focus via success of Burberrys initiatives in this category, which prominence on the runway, editorial priority and includes handbags, small leather goods, scarves, shoes, heightened presence in global advertising belts and jewellery.
During 2008 09, Burberry introduced product-specic advertising imagery for non-apparel, including e-brochures, in order to support these strategies.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates In 2008 09, non-apparel revenue increased by 12%, compared to 7% for Burberry as a whole.
Non-apparel accounted for 33% of retail and wholesale revenue, compared to 32% last year.
20 STRATEGY Accelerating retail-led growth Shift company culture and processes from a static wholesale model to a dynamic retail model.
Retail-led growth refers not only to the operation of Burberrys own stores, but also to a fundamental shift in the Groups operating culture.
Retail contributed over half of the total Group revenue KPI: Growth in retail revenue includes comparable store in 2008 09 for the first time, reecting the Groups sales growth, which measures growth in productivity of emphasis on this channel.
Burberry continues to move existing stores: plus sales from new space.
from a relatively static, traditional, wholesale structure to a more dynamic, retail culture and mindset.
This more consumer-centric, responsive organisation is 14% in 2008 09 having a positive impact on directly operated stores, franchise partners, wholesale customers and licensing 2009 14% partners worldwide.
2008 20% 2007 24% Centrally, Burberry continues to work on: Year to March % growth Focused collections.
Reorientating design Comparable stores New space and merchandising toward more disciplined, Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
Comparable store sales growth is dened as the annual percentage increase in sales from stores that have been opened for more than 12 months, adjusted for closures Flow frequency.
Increasing the frequency and refurbishments of new goods owing to stores.
In 2008 09, comparable store sales increased by 1% Replenishment.
Developing a more extensive H1 up 3%: H2 down 1% a solid performance as global and responsive replenishment programme in all economic conditions deteriorated throughout the year.
product divisions, while evolving in-store visual The balance of revenue growth was driven by new space, merchandising and processes to support.
which increased 14% on average during the year.
Looking to the retail stores, Burberry remains focused on: Enhancing store productivity.
Through KPI: Number of stores measures the number of Burberry concentration on operational activities, such directly operated stores around the world.
as replenishment, planning, merchandising, xturing and visual, Burberry continues to drive store productivity.
In addition, Burberry has 419 at March 2009 developed and piloted a sales and service programme which will be implemented globally 2009 419 in retail stores through 2009 10.
In 2008 09, 2007 292 Burberry continued new store roll-out with 14% net As at March new space added during the year.
This included five Mainline Concessions Outlets standalone childrenswear stores as Burberry looks Includes ten stores operated by Burberry Middle East to grow this product area.
Burberry The number of stores directly operated by Burberry now operates e-commerce in the United States and increased by over 50 in 2008 09, including a net 22 across 26 European countries.
Burberry continues more mainline stores and a net 22 concessions around to look to develop and scale its business in this the world.
The majority of the new mainline stores were high-growth channel.
in the Americas and Middle East.
The Group continues to renovate high prole locations worldwide with a brighter, modern aesthetic and more efficient and productive design concept.
22 STRATEGY Investing in underpenetrated markets Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these under-penetrated markets consist of both developed markets, like the United States, and emerging markets including China, India, the Middle East and Russia.
All distribution channels retail, wholesale and licensing are used to optimise these opportunities.
Americas KPI: Number of stores in Emerging Markets measures the The United States continues to provide significant reach of the Burberry brand in these high potential countries.
opportunity for the Group to increase market share.
In 2008 09, Burberry opened a net ten new stores 91 at March 2009 including its first store in Canada and two childrenswear standalone test stores, and completed three major 2009 91 renovations.
In wholesale, Burberry further 2008 79 professionalised the organisation to work more closely 2007 58 with its large department store customers.
In addition, As at March during the year, the newly created Americas region Emerging Markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, took ownership of the Latin American markets and India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and South America integration is now in progress.
In April 2009, the Americas Includes ten stores operated by Burberry Middle East organisation moved into its new regional headquarters Burberry added a net 12 stores in Emerging Markets, pictured opposite at 444 Madison Avenue with a rare of which eight stores were opened in conjunction with outdoor marketing opportunity to feature Burberry.
Of the total, 81 are operated under Emerging Markets franchise and ten by the Burberry Middle East joint venture.
In 2008 09, Burberry achieved a 50% increase in In the Americas, which Burberry has also identied as an revenue from key emerging economies including China, under-penetrated market, underlying retail and wholesale the Middle East, Russia and India.
These markets now revenue increased by 9% in 2008 09, although the market contribute 9% of sales, up from 6% in 2007 08. became much more difficult from the second half.
Historically, Burberry has operated in these markets through local partners who possess the specic knowledge and resources required to develop the brand in their respective regions.
In September 2008, Burberry entered a joint venture with its main partner in the Middle East to manage retail and wholesale operations in certain key markets.
Since inception, Burberry Middle East has opened four stores, including two standalone childrenswear stores.
Burberry continues to open stores with franchise partners in other markets, with a net eight stores opening last year, including a net two in China and the first significant stores in India.
24 STRATEGY Pursuing operational excellence Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be recognised as much for operational expertise as for product and marketing excellence.
Key initiatives for 2008 09 include: Performance highlights for the year include: Global cost efficiency programme.
In January 2009, Reduction in number of distribution facilities Burberry announced a global cost efficiency from 24 in 2007 08 to 14 programme to deliver annual savings of about 50m Consolidation in freight carriers from 31 in 2007 08 to underpin profitability in 2009 10 and beyond.
The to three savings are derived from process efficiencies, further evolving the supply chain, including manufacturing, Global suppliers from 148 in 2006 07 to 100 and streamlining other operations around the world.
Shipment from air to sea excluding road : minimal The implementation of this programme is now well in 2007 08 to 68% in Autumn Winter 2009 advanced and tracking to plan.
Excludes Spain supply chain Global IT programme implementation.
The global IT programme, based on SAP technology, continues to KPI: Retail and wholesale gross margin measures, be rolled out to the regions, with retail and wholesale among other things, how efficiently Burberry sources distribution implementations in Hong Kong and the its products.
The technology is now live in 15 countries, with approximately 75% of retail wholesale 52.1% in 2008 09 revenue now processed through SAP.
Over 80% of mainline stores are converted, giving greater visibility 2009 52.1% from design to the consumer.
2008 58.5% 2007 56.9% Continued modernisation of supplier base.
The Group continues to modernise its supplier base Year to March through the move to fewer, larger, vertically Gross margin in retail and wholesale combined declined integrated suppliers.
Further sourcing benets Rened logistics operations.
This included the were achieved, more than offset by a lower proportion continued consolidation of distribution centres of full price sales especially in the second half.
throughout the Group, including the establishment of the Asian distribution hub in Hong Kong in November 2008.
In addition, a global carrier KPI: Adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit programme was launched to drive significant margin measures how Burberrys initiatives and its savings in transportation costs.
investment to improve its business processes, including sourcing, IT and logistics are impacting its profit margin.
Initial implementation of global planning function.
During the year, Burberry also began to invest in a 9.8% in 2008 09 global planning function to enable a tighter control and management of inventory.
Leveraging data from the 2009 9.8% global IT solution, certain early efficiencies have been 2008 14.9% identied, including a significant reduction in style 2007 14.6% options, reduced purchases, improved replenishment Year to March processes and monthly ow disciplines.
Adjusted operating profit is before restructuring costs, impairment charges, negative BME goodwill, Atlas costs and impact of HQ relocation Due to the challenging economic environment Burberrys adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin was 9.8% in 2008 09, with pressure on gross margin offset in part by tight management of discretionary expenses.
