BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW Burberry designs, markets and sources womenswear, menswear, non-apparel and childrenswear with innovative outerwear as the foundation.
These are distributed through a diversied network of retail, wholesale and licensing channels worldwide.
The business is managed by region, channel and product, supported by corporate functions.
regions Channels Retail wholesale revenue Revenue by channel by destination 2008 09 2008 09 Europe 34% Spain 13% Americas 27% Retail 52% Asia Pacic 21% Wholesale 41% Rest of World 5% Licensing 7% Americas: includes the United States, Canada and Latin America Retail: includes 119 mainline stores, 253 concessions within department stores Asia Pacic: includes China and 47 outlets Wholesale: includes sales to prestige department stores and specialty retailers Broad geographic portfolio around the world, as well as sales to its franchisees who operate 81 Burberry stores, mainly in Emerging Markets Burberry has a solid infrastructure around the world, Licensing: royalty income primarily received from Burberrys partners in Japan and operating in three main regions Europe, Americas and global licensees for fragrance, eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear Asia Pacic, as well as Spain and Rest of World.
Europe Balanced channel mix including Spain is 47% of sales, Americas is 27% and Burberry sells its products to the end consumer through Asia Pacic is 21%.
Emerging Markets, which spans both the retail including e-commerce and wholesale across all regions and includes China, India, Russia, channels.
Retail was 52% of revenue in 2008 09 and Eastern Europe and the Middle East, contributed 9% wholesale was 41%.
Burberry also has selective licensing to retail and wholesale revenue.
agreements in Japan and globally, leveraging the local and technical expertise of its licence partners.
Go to pages 35 to 39 to see what progress was made in 2008 09 by region, channel and product.
29 BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW PRODUCTS Retail wholesale revenue Product pyramid by product category 2008 09 Prorsum Womenswear 37% London Collection Menswear 26% Non-apparel 33% Childrenswear Other 4% Lifestyle Diversied offering Product pyramid The Burberry brand has broad consumer appeal.
The Each collection is developed with a strict product hierarchy business is balanced between womenswear 37% of or pyramid.
2008 09 revenue, menswear 26% and non-apparel At the top is Prorsum, the most fashion forward collection 33%, with a small contribution from the new centred around catwalk runway shows each year.
Outerwear, which is included in Prorsum, the Latin word for moves forward, provides womenswear, menswear and childrenswear, is the core the design inspiration for other seasonal ranges.
of its product offer at approximately 50% of apparel and the category in which Burberry is top-of-mind among In the middle of the pyramid is London Collection or consumers.
Burberry continues to grow this category by what a Burberry customer wears on weekdays for work, continued product innovation.
Another key strategy is to i. e. tailored ready to wear.
grow non-apparel revenue here increased by 12% And at the base of the pyramid is Lifestyle or what a underlying in 2008 09.
Burberry is planning further growth Burberry customer wears on the weekend, i. e. in menswear and childrenswear over the next few years.
Ranges at Burberry are balanced appropriately to drive sales and profitability.
Outerwear goes across all three levels as Burberry continues to innovate and diversify this core category.
Prorsum provides the inspiration for all ranges, London Collection continues to grow, especially with new tailoring initiatives, and Lifestyle includes Burberry Sport and new denim initiatives which further contemporise this large casual component.
30 Corporate RESOURCES Burberrys regional, product and channel teams are In order to drive growth by pursuing its five key supported by corporate functions which both efficiently strategies, Burberry must continue to invest in its and effectively sustain the business and also develop key resources.
the brand in a coordinated and cohesive way around the world.
People Design Front end Burberry employs approximately 5,500 people worldwide.
Merchandising and product The team has been strengthened considerably over the development past few years to drive delivery of the five strategic themes Marketing and support and sustain continued growth.
Burberry is Sourcing Back end committed to attracting, retaining and developing world Quality assurance Supply chain class talent.
As the business grows and the demand for Logistics expertise and ability across the organisation increases, Customer services Burberry is ensuring that it develops a strong pipeline Strategy of talent throughout the Group.
Corporate resources Brand Support functions IT With over 150 years of history, rooted in its authentic Finance British heritage and the integrity of its outerwear, Corporate support Burberry continues to strive to elevate and extend the brand.
Burberry has broad consumer appeal across At the front end, these include: genders and generations, a unique demographic Design including product design, store design, positioning within the luxury arena, and broad global visual merchandising everything the consumer sees reach.
Burberry continues to invest in the brand through is developed centrally under Christopher Bailey, design innovation, reinventing its icons and reinforcing the Burberrys Creative Director brand with professional merchandising and compelling Merchandising and product development marketing campaigns.
Marketing including advertising, PR and Infrastructure communications Crucial to Burberrys ability to deliver sustainable growth is an efficient infrastructure, including its stores, supply At the back end, Burberry has built a central global chain, IT systems, logistics and distribution capabilities.
supply chain team responsible for sourcing, quality Historically, Burberrys organisation has been highly assurance, logistics and customer service worldwide.
The current strategy is to integrate anything These are supported by a number of further corporate branded Burberry around the world.
Burberry aims to be functions including: recognised as much for its operational expertise as for its Strategy: this division includes Burberrys corporate product and marketing excellence and has been investing strategy, new business development, and in its business processes and systems in the last few years.
licensing functions Corporate Resources: which includes human resources, service and productivity, facilities and loss prevention IT: Burberry has a global IT function covering infrastructure, systems and support Finance and Corporate Support: including all finance functions, investor relations, legal and corporate responsibility, corporate planning, audit and risk and business integration Go to page 40 to see what progress Burberrys corporate functions made during 2008 09.
31 BURBERRY GROUP OVERVIEW KPIS The following key performance indicators KPIs are reviewed by the Board and the management team to assess Burberrys progress against its five strategic initiatives.
Although the trends in each of the KPIs below can be influenced by more than one of the strategic initiatives, the following information provides investors with a scorecard for Burberrys performance.
KPI 2008 09 2007 08 2006 07 Total revenue growth % see page 18 7% 18% 15% Growth in non-apparel revenue % see page 20 12% 39% 15% Growth in retail revenue % see page 22 14% 20% 24% Number of stores see page 22 419 368 292 Number of stores in Emerging Markets see page 24 91 79 58 Retail and wholesale gross margin % see page 26 52.1% 58.5% 56.9% Adjusted retail and wholesale operating profit margin % see page 26 9.8% 14.9% 14.6% Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth % see below 4% 9% 21% Creating shareholder value Total Shareholder Return As explained on page 65 in the Report on Directors KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS is a key Remuneration and related matters, Burberry also monitors valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders.
This measures the growth in value of a shareholding assuming dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
30.2p in 2008 09, a decline of 4% Corporate responsibility 2009 30.2p 4 % Burberry also recognises its responsibility to key 2008 31.6p 9% stakeholders in managing its business.
The progress 2007 29.1p 21% Burberry has made this year in respect of its supply chain, Year to March pence people management and employee communications, community involvement and environmental matters is Adjusted diluted EPS is before restructuring costs, impairment charges, negative BME goodwill, impact of one-off tax credits, Atlas costs and impact of reported on pages 48 to 52.
HQ relocation Adjusted diluted EPS was down 4% to 30.2p in 2008 09 as a lower tax rate partially mitigated the decline in profit.
32 Markets Global luxury goods market Markets in which Burberry operates Burberry operates in the global luxury sector which, for Burberrys relevant categories, is estimated to be an approximately 145bn global market.
145bN in 2008 The luxury goods market has grown on average by 7% per 2008 145 annum during the last four years.
During 2008, growth 2007 140 slowed and industry analysts expect the market to contract 2006 130 during 2009.
Despite current headwinds associated with 2005 120 the global economic environment, the fundamental long- 2004 110 term drivers of growth in the luxury market remain: Year to December retail value bn economic growth the luxury market has generally grown at two to three times the rate of the Global luxury goods market global economy by product consumption associated with the rapid expansion of emerging economies including China and Russia growth in high net worth individuals HNWIs in both core and emerging markets: HNWIs are dened as Apparel 30% consumers with financial assets not including their Accessories 20% primary residence in excess of US$1m: they have Hard luxury 20% a higher propensity to purchase luxury goods than Perfumes and cosmetics 25% other consumers Other 5% increasing demand for luxury brands, as consumer aspirations develop, spend by working women Company and industry estimates increases and a greater number of men select Competitive position luxury brands In the year to 31 March 2009, Burberrys reported sales more international travel and tourism were 1,202m.
Converting wholesale and licensing revenue to retail sales value how much the consumer continuous product innovation by luxury brands spends on Burberry products, the global sales under creating demand for new products the Burberry brand are estimated to be 3.5bn.
Burberry The luxury goods market is made up of apparel, is among the top ten global luxury brands.
accessories including handbags and shoes, perfume Burberry competes with a variety of luxury goods and cosmetics and hard luxury, including watches companies.
Some are large international conglomerates, and jewellery.
owning many luxury brands: others are focused on a single brand globally: while others are small, more localised operations.
Burberrys relevant peer group differs by product category womenswear, menswear, non-apparel and childrenswear.
Management remuneration is partially based on Burberrys performance relative to peers.
A full list of the comparator group, which includes Herms, LVMH, PPR and Richemont is provided on page 69 of this report.
